risk factors. 8 21 risk factors. the following discussion sets forth the material risk factors that could affect jpmorgan chase 's financial condition and operations. readers should not consider any descriptions of such factors to be a complete set of all potential risks that could affect the firm. regulatory risk jpmorgan chase operates within a highly regulated industry, and the firm's businesses and results are significantly affected by the laws and regulations to which the firm is subject. as a global financial services firm, jpmorgan chase is subject to extensive and comprehensive regulation under federal and state laws in the u.s. and the laws of the various jurisdictions outside the u.s. in which the firm does business. the financial services industry has in recent years experienced an unprecedented increase in regulations and supervision, both in the u.s. and globally. the cumulative effect of the new and currently proposed legislation and regulations could require the firm to make further changes to its businesses or operations, which could result in a significant loss of revenue for the firm and impose additional compliance and other costs on the firm or otherwise reduce the firm's profitability. these changes could also: limit the products and services that the firm offers; reduce the liquidity that the firm is able to offer its clients or counterparties through its market-making activities; impede the firm's ability to pursue business opportunities in which it might otherwise consider engaging; require the firm to dispose of or curtail certain 8 businesses; affect the value of assets that the firm holds; require the firm to increase its prices and therefore reduce demand for its products; or otherwise adversely affect the firm's businesses. to the extent that these initiatives have been, or continue to be, imposed on a limited subset of financial institutions (based on size, activities, geography or other criteria), the requirements to which the firm may be subject under such laws and regulations could require the firm to restructure further its businesses, or further re-price or curtail the products or services that it offers to customers, which could result in the firm not being able to compete effectively with other institutions that are not impacted in the same way. authorities in some non-u.s. jurisdictions in which the firm has operations have enacted legislation or regulations requiring that certain subsidiaries of the firm operating in those countries maintain independent capital and liquidity. in addition, some non-u.s. regulators have proposed that large banks which conduct certain businesses in their jurisdictions operate through separate subsidiaries located in those countries. these requirements, and any future laws or regulations that seek to impose restrictions on the way the firm organizes its business units or increase the capital or liquidity requirements on non-u.s. subsidiaries of the firm, could hinder the firm's ability to efficiently manage its operations, increase its funding and liquidity costs and thereby decrease the firm's net income. in addition, there can be significant differences in the ways that similar regulatory initiatives affecting the financial services industry are implemented in the u.s. and in different countries and regions in which jpmorgan chase does business. for example, recent legislative and regulatory initiatives within the eu, including those relating to the resolution of financial institutions, the establishment by non-eu financial institutions of intermediate holding companies in the eu, the separation of trading activities from core banking services, mandatory on-exchange trading, position limits and reporting rules for derivatives, governance and accountability regimes, conduct of business requirements and restrictions on compensation, could require the firm to make significant modifications to its non-u.s. business, operations and legal entity structure in order to comply with these requirements. these differences in implemented or proposed non-u.s. regulations and initiatives may be inconsistent or may conflict with current or proposed regulations in the u.s., which could subject the firm to increased compliance and legal costs, as well as higher operational, capital and liquidity costs, all of which could have an adverse effect on the firm's business, results of operations and profitability. recent political developments in the u.s. and abroad have increased the uncertainty regarding the regulatory environment in which the firm will operate. although certain of the proposals being mentioned in the u.s. include the possibility of regulatory reform related to the financial services industry, it is too early to determine the full extent to which these measures will ultimately modify or reduce the regulatory requirements currently imposed on the firm, and the resulting possible effect on the firm and its business and operations. in addition, the u.k.'s planned departure from the eu has engendered significant uncertainty concerning the regulatory framework under which global financial services institutions, including jpmorgan chase, will need to conduct their business and operations in the eu after the u.k.'s departure. expanded regulatory and governmental oversight of jpmorgan chase's businesses may continue to increase the firm's costs and risks. the firm's businesses and operations are subject to heightened governmental and regulatory oversight and scrutiny. the firm has paid significant fines (or has provided significant monetary and other relief) to resolve a number of investigations or enforcement actions by governmental agencies. the firm continues to devote substantial resources to satisfying the requirements of regulatory consent orders and other settlements to which it is subject, which increases the firm's operational and compliance costs. certain regulators have taken measures in connection with specific enforcement actions against financial institutions (including the firm) that require admissions of wrongdoing and compliance with other conditions in connection with settling such matters. such admissions and conditions can lead to, among other things, greater exposure in civil litigation, harm to reputation, disqualification from providing business to certain clients and in certain jurisdictions, and other direct and indirect adverse effects. in addition, u.s. government officials have indicated and demonstrated a willingness to bring criminal actions against financial institutions, including the firm, and have increasingly sought, and obtained, resolutions that include criminal pleas or other admissions of wrongdoing from those institutions, such as the firm's agreement in may 2015 to plead guilty to a single violation of federal antitrust law in connection with its settlements with certain government authorities relating to its foreign exchange sales and trading activities and controls related to those activities, and the non-prosecution agreement entered into by a subsidiary of the firm with the u.s. department of justice in november 2016 in connection with settlements to resolve various governmental investigations relating to a former hiring program for candidates referred by clients, potential clients and government officials in the asia pacific region. such resolutions, whether with u.s. or non-u.s. authorities, could have significant collateral consequences for a subject financial institution, including loss of customers and business, or the inability to offer certain products or services, or losing permission to operate certain businesses, for a period of time (absent the forbearance of, or the granting of waivers by, applicable regulators). the firm expects that it and the financial services industry as a whole will continue to be subject to regulatory scrutiny and governmental investigations and enforcement actions and that violations of law will more frequently be met with formal and punitive enforcement action, including the imposition of significant monetary and other sanctions, rather than with informal supervisory action. in addition, if the firm fails to meet the requirements of the various governmental settlements to which it is subject, or more 9 part i generally, to maintain risk and control procedures and processes that meet the heightened standards established by its regulators and other government agencies, it could be required to enter into further orders and settlements, pay additional fines, penalties or judgments, or accept material regulatory restrictions on its businesses. the extent of the firm's exposure to legal and regulatory matters may be unpredictable and could, in some cases, substantially exceed the amount of reserves that the firm has established for such matters. requirements for the orderly resolution of the firm could require jpmorgan chase to restructure or reorganize its businesses. under title i of the dodd-frank act ( title i ) and federal reserve and fdic rules, the firm is required to prepare and submit periodically to the federal reserve and the fdic a detailed plan (the resolution plan ) for the rapid and orderly resolution, without extraordinary government support, of jpmorgan chase &amp; co. and certain of its subsidiaries under the u.s. bankruptcy code and other applicable insolvency laws in the event of future material financial distress of the firm. in april 2016, the federal reserve and the fdic jointly provided firm-specific feedback on the 2015 resolution plans of eight systemically important domestic banking institutions, and determined that five of these 2015 resolution plans, including that of the firm, were not credible or would not facilitate an orderly resolution under the u.s. bankruptcy code. in addition to the identified deficiencies, the federal reserve and the fdic also identified certain shortcomings which were required to be satisfactorily addressed in the firm's resolution plan due on july 1, 2017. on october 1, 2016, the firm filed with the federal reserve and the fdic its submission (the 2016 resolution submission ) describing how the firm remediated the identified deficiencies and providing a status report of its actions to address the identified shortcomings. on december 13, 2016, the federal reserve and the fdic advised the firm of their determinations that the firm's 2016 resolution submission adequately remediated the deficiencies in the firm's 2015 resolution plan identified by the agencies. on july 1, 2017, the firm will file with the federal reserve and the fdic its 2017 resolution plan which will, among other things, describe how the firm has remediated the remaining shortcomings identified by the agencies in april 2016. if the federal reserve and the fdic were to jointly determine that the firm did not remediate the identified shortcomings, or that the firm's 2017 resolution plan, or any future update of that plan, is not credible, and the firm is unable to remedy the identified deficiencies in a timely manner, the regulators may jointly impose more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements on the firm or restrictions on growth, activities or operations of the firm, and could, if such deficiencies are not remedied within two years after such a determination, require the firm to restructure, reorganize or divest businesses, legal entities, operational systems and/or intercompany transactions in ways that could materially and adversely affect the firm's operations and strategy. in addition, in order to continue to maintain a title i resolution plan that the federal reserve and fdic determine is credible, the firm may need to make additional changes to its legal entity structure and to certain intercompany and external activities, which could result in increased funding or operational costs. holders of jpmorgan chase's debt and equity securities will absorb losses if jpmorgan chase were to enter into a resolution. the federal reserve has issued final rules (the tlac rules ) regarding the minimum levels of unsecured external long-term debt and other loss-absorbing capacity that bank holding companies are required to have issued and outstanding, as well as guidelines defining the terms of qualifying debt instruments, to ensure that adequate levels of debt are maintained at the holding company level for purposes of recapitalizing the firm's operating subsidiaries ( eligible ltd ). if jpmorgan chase &amp; co. were to enter into a resolution, either in a proceeding under chapter 11 of the u.s. bankruptcy code or in a receivership administered by the fdic under title ii of the dodd-frank act, holders of eligible ltd and other debt and equity securities of the firm will absorb the losses of jpmorgan chase &amp; co. and its affiliates. under the firm's resolution plan, the firm's preferred resolution strategy contemplates that only jpmorgan chase &amp; co. would enter bankruptcy proceedings under chapter 11 of the u.s. bankruptcy code pursuant to a single point of entry recapitalization strategy. jpmorgan chase &amp; co.'s subsidiaries would be recapitalized as needed so that they could continue normal operations or subsequently be wound down in an orderly manner. as a result, jpmorgan chase &amp; co.'s losses and any losses incurred by its subsidiaries would be imposed first on holders of jpmorgan chase &amp; co.'s equity securities and thereafter on unsecured creditors, including holders of jpmorgan chase &amp; co.'s eligible ltd and other debt securities. claims of holders of those debt securities would have a junior position to the claims of creditors of jpmorgan chase &amp; co.'s subsidiaries and to the claims of priority (as determined by statute) and secured creditors of jpmorgan chase &amp; co. accordingly, in a resolution of jpmorgan chase &amp; co. under chapter 11 of the u.s. bankruptcy code, holders of eligible ltd and other debt securities of jpmorgan chase &amp; co. would realize value only to the extent available to jpmorgan chase &amp; co. as a shareholder of jpmorgan chase bank, n.a. and its other subsidiaries, and only after any claims of priority and secured creditors of jpmorgan chase &amp; co. have been fully repaid. if jpmorgan chase &amp; co. were to enter into a resolution, none of jpmorgan chase &amp; co., the federal reserve or the fdic is obligated to follow the firm's preferred resolution strategy under its resolution plan. the fdic has similarly indicated that a single point of entry recapitalization model could be a desirable strategy to resolve a systemically important financial institution, such as jpmorgan chase &amp; co., under title ii of the dodd-frank act. pursuant to that strategy, the fdic would use its power to create a bridge entity for jpmorgan chase &amp; co.; 10 transfer the systemically important and viable parts of its business, principally the stock of jpmorgan chase &amp; co.'s main operating subsidiaries and any intercompany claims against such subsidiaries, to the bridge entity; recapitalize those subsidiaries using assets of jpmorgan chase &amp; co. that have been transferred to the bridge entity; and exchange external debt claims against jpmorgan chase &amp; co. for equity in the bridge entity. under this title ii resolution strategy, the value of the stock of the bridge entity that would be redistributed to holders of eligible ltd and other debt securities of jpmorgan chase &amp; co. may not be sufficient to repay all or part of the principal amount and interest on such securities. to date, the fdic has not formally adopted a single point of entry resolution strategy and it is not obligated to follow such a strategy in a title ii resolution of jpmorgan chase &amp; co. market risk jpmorgan chase's results of operations have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by u.s. and global financial market and economic conditions and political developments. jpmorgan chase's businesses are materially affected by economic and market conditions, including the liquidity of the global financial markets; the level and volatility of debt and equity prices, interest rates, currency and commodities prices (including oil prices) and other market indices; investor, consumer and business sentiment; events that reduce confidence in the financial markets; inflation and unemployment; the availability and cost of capital and credit; the economic effects of natural disasters, health emergencies or pandemics, severe weather conditions, outbreaks of hostilities, terrorism or other geopolitical instabilities; monetary policies and actions taken by the federal reserve and other central banks; and the health of the u.s. and global economies. recent political developments in the u.s. and abroad have increased the uncertainty regarding the economic environment in which the firm will operate. although certain of the proposals being considered in the u.s., such as tax reform or increased expenditure on infrastructure projects, could lead to higher levels of u.s. economic activity and more expansive u.s. domestic economic growth, others, such as protectionist trade policies or isolationist foreign policies, could contract economic growth. the uncertainty around the manner and extent to which these economic policies are ultimately enacted could impact market volatility and affect the firm's businesses, both directly and through their impact on the businesses and activities of the firm's clients and customers. in addition, the effects of various referenda in europe, including the vote by the u.k. electorate to leave the eu, as well as the uncertainties regarding the outcome of eurozone presidential elections in 2017, have triggered political and economic uncertainty in the eurozone. there is no assurance that such uncertainty, and any resultant market volatility, will not adversely affect the firm's results of operations. in the firm's wholesale businesses, market and economic factors can affect the volume of transactions that the firm executes for its clients and, therefore, the revenue that the firm receives, as well as the willingness of other financial institutions and investors to participate in loan syndications or underwritings managed by the firm. the firm generally maintains market-making positions in the fixed income, currency, commodities, credit and equity markets to facilitate client demand and provide liquidity to clients. the revenue derived from these positions is affected by many factors, including the firm's success in effectively hedging its market and other risks; volatility in interest rates and equity, debt and commodities markets; interest rate and credit spreads; and the availability of liquidity in the capital markets, all of which are affected by global economic and market conditions, political events and regulatory restrictions on market-making activities. in addition, the firm's market-making businesses can expose the firm to unexpected market, credit and operational risks that could cause the firm to suffer unexpected losses. severe declines in asset values, unanticipated credit events, or unforeseen circumstances that may cause previously uncorrelated factors to become correlated (and vice versa) may create losses resulting from risks not having been appropriately taken into account in the development, structuring or pricing of a financial instrument. the firm may be adversely affected by declining asset values. this is particularly true for businesses that earn fees for managing third-party assets or receive or post collateral. for example, a higher level of u.s. or non-u.s. interest rates or a downturn in financial markets could affect the valuations of the client assets that the firm manages or holds in custody, which, in turn, could affect the firm's revenue from fees that are based on the amount of assets under management or custody. macroeconomic or market concerns, as well as legislative and regulatory developments (such as, for example, the recently-adopted sec rules relating to money-market funds), may also prompt outflows from the firm's funds or accounts or cause clients to invest funds in products that generate lower revenue. changes in interest rates will affect the level of assets and liabilities held on the firm's balance sheet and the revenue that the firm earns from net interest income. an increasing or high interest rate environment, while generally increasing the net interest income earned by the firm, may under certain circumstances also result in lower levels of commercial and residential loan originations and diminished returns on the investment securities portfolio (to the extent that the firm is unable to reinvest contemporaneously in higher-yielding assets), thereby adversely affecting the firm's revenues and capital levels. conversely, a low interest rate environment may compress net interest margins, reducing the amounts that the firm earns on its investment securities portfolio, or reducing the value of its mortgage servicing rights ( msrs ) asset, thereby reducing the firm's net interest income and other revenues. the firm's consumer businesses are particularly affected by u.s. domestic economic conditions, including u.s. interest 11 part i rates, the rate of unemployment, housing prices, the level of consumer confidence, changes in consumer spending and the number of personal bankruptcies. sustained low growth in the u.s. economy could diminish demand for the products and services offered by the firm's consumer businesses, or increase the cost to provide such products and services. in addition, adverse economic conditions, such as economic dislocations in certain geographies due to high levels of unemployment resulting from declining industrial or manufacturing activity, or other market or economic factors, could lead to an increase in mortgage, credit card, auto, student and other loan delinquencies and higher net charge-offs, which can reduce the firm's earnings. the firm's earnings from its consumer businesses could also be adversely affected by changes in government policies that affect consumers, including those relating to medical insurance, immigration, employment status and taxation, as well as governmental policies aimed at the economy more broadly, such as infrastructure spending and global trade, which could result in, among other things, higher inflation or reductions in consumer disposable income. widening of credit spreads makes it more expensive for the firm to borrow on both a secured and unsecured basis, and may adversely affect the credit markets and the firm's businesses. credit spreads widen or narrow not only in response to firm-specific events and circumstances, but also as a result of general economic and geopolitical events and conditions. changes in the firm's credit spreads will impact, positively or negatively, the firm's earnings on certain liabilities that are recorded at fair value. sudden and significant volatility in the prices of securities and other assets (including loans and derivatives) may curtail the trading markets for such securities and assets, make it difficult to sell or hedge such securities and assets, adversely affect the firm's profitability, capital or liquidity, or increase the firm's funding costs. the federal reserve has recently observed that market volatility may be exacerbated by regulatory restrictions, as market participants that are subject to the volcker rule are likely to decrease their market-making activities, and thereby constrain market liquidity, during periods of market stress. in addition, in a difficult or less liquid market environment, the firm's risk management strategies may not be effective because other market participants may be attempting to use the same or similar strategies to deal with the challenging market conditions. in such circumstances, it may be difficult for the firm to reduce its risk positions due to the activity of such other market participants or widespread market dislocations. sustained volatility in the financial markets may also negatively affect consumer or investor confidence, which could lead to lower client activity and decreased revenue for the firm. credit risk the financial condition of jpmorgan chase's clients and counterparties, particularly other financial institutions, could adversely affect the firm. the firm routinely executes transactions with clients and counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, investment managers and other types of financial institutions. many of these transactions expose the firm to the credit risk of its counterparties and, in some cases, disputes and litigation in the event of a default by the counterparty or client. disputes with counterparties may also arise regarding the terms or the settlement procedures of derivative contracts, including with respect to the value of underlying collateral, which could cause the firm to incur unexpected costs, including transaction, operational, legal and litigation costs, or result in credit losses, all of which may impair the firm's ability to manage effectively its credit risk exposure from these products. the failure of a significant market participant, or concerns about a default by such an institution, could also lead to significant liquidity problems for, or losses or defaults by, other institutions, which in turn could adversely affect the firm. in addition, in recent years the perceived interrelationship among financial institutions has also led to claims by other market participants and regulators that the firm and other financial institutions have allegedly violated anti-trust or anti-competition laws by colluding to manipulate markets, prices or indices, and there is no assurance that such allegations will not arise in the same or similar contexts in the future. as part of providing clearing services, the firm is a member of a number of ccps, and may be required to pay a portion of the losses incurred by such organizations as a result of the default of other members. as a clearing member, the firm is also exposed to the risk of non-performance by its clients, which it seeks to mitigate through the maintenance of adequate collateral. in addition, the firm can be exposed to intra-day credit risk of its clients in connection with providing cash management, clearing, custodial and other transaction services to such clients. if a client for which the firm provides such services becomes bankrupt or insolvent, the firm may suffer losses, become involved in disputes and litigation with various parties, including one or more ccps, or the client's bankruptcy estate and other creditors, or involved in regulatory investigations. all of such events can increase the firm's operational and litigation costs and may result in losses if any collateral received by the firm is insufficient to cover such losses. during periods of market stress or illiquidity, the firm's credit risk also may be further increased when the firm cannot realize the fair value of the collateral held by it or when collateral is liquidated at prices that are not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan, derivative or other exposure due to the firm. further, disputes with obligors concerning the valuation of collateral could increase in 12 times of significant market stress, volatility or illiquidity, and the firm could suffer losses during such periods if it is unable to realize the fair value of collateral or manage declines in the value of collateral. concentration of credit and market risk could increase the potential for significant losses. jpmorgan chase has exposure to increased levels of risk when clients or counterparties are engaged in similar business activities or activities in the same geographic region, or when they have similar economic features that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic conditions. for example, a significant deterioration in the credit quality of one of the firm's borrowers or counterparties could lead to concerns about the credit quality of other borrowers or counterparties in similar, related or dependent industries and thereby could exacerbate the firm's credit risk exposure and potentially increase its losses, including mark-to-market losses in its trading businesses. similarly, challenging economic conditions affecting a particular industry or geographic area could lead to concerns about the credit quality of the firm's borrowers or counterparties, not only in that particular industry or geography but in related or dependent industries, wherever located, or about the ability of customers of the firm's consumer businesses living in such areas or working in such affected industries or related or dependent industries to meet their obligations to the firm. although the firm regularly monitors various segments of its exposures to assess potential concentration or contagion risks, the firm's efforts to diversify or hedge its exposures against concentration risks may not be successful. in addition, disruptions in the liquidity or transparency of the financial markets may result in the firm's inability to sell, syndicate or realize the value of its positions, thereby leading to increased concentrations. the inability to reduce the firm's positions may not only increase the market and credit risks associated with such positions, but may also increase the level of risk-weighted assets ( rwa ) on the firm's balance sheet, thereby increasing its capital requirements and funding costs, all of which could adversely affect the operations and profitability of the firm's businesses. liquidity risk if jpmorgan chase does not effectively manage its liquidity, its business could suffer. jpmorgan chase's liquidity is critical to its ability to operate its businesses. some potential conditions that could impair the firm's liquidity include markets that become illiquid or are otherwise experiencing disruption, unforeseen cash or capital requirements (including, among others, commitments that may be triggered to special purpose entities ( spes ) or other entities), difficulty in selling or inability to sell assets, default by a ccp or other counterparty, unforeseen outflows of cash or collateral, and lack of market or customer confidence in the firm or financial markets in general. these conditions may be caused by events over which the firm has little or no control. the widespread crisis in investor confidence and resulting liquidity crisis experienced in 2008 and into early 2009 increased the firm's cost of funding and limited its access to some of its traditional sources of liquidity (such as securitized debt offerings backed by mortgages, credit card receivables and other assets) during that time, and there is no assurance that these severe conditions could not occur in the future. if the firm's access to stable and low cost sources of funding, such as bank deposits, is reduced, the firm may need to raise alternative funding which may be more expensive or of limited availability. in addition, the firm's cost of funding could be affected by actions that the firm may take in order to satisfy applicable liquidity coverage ratio and net stable funding ratio requirements, to lower its gsib systemic risk score, to satisfy the amount of eligible ltd that the firm must have outstanding under the tlac rules, to address obligations under the firm's resolution plan or to satisfy regulatory requirements in non-u.s. jurisdictions relating to the pre-positioning of liquidity in subsidiaries that are material legal entities. jpmorgan chase is a holding company and depends on the cash flows of its subsidiaries to fund payments of dividends on its equity securities, principal and interest payments on its debt securities and redemptions and repurchases of its outstanding securities. as a holding company, jpmorgan chase &amp; co. is dependent on the earnings of its subsidiaries to meet its payment obligations. under the arrangements contemplated by the firm's resolution plan, jpmorgan chase &amp; co. has established a new intermediate holding company, jpmorgan chase holdings llc (the ihc ), and has contributed to the ihc the stock of substantially all of its direct subsidiaries (other than jpmorgan chase bank, n.a.) as well as other assets and intercompany indebtedness owing to it. under these arrangements, jpmorgan chase &amp; co. is obligated to contribute to the ihc substantially all the net proceeds received by it from securities issuances (including, without limitation, issuances of senior and subordinated debt securities and of preferred and common stock). as a result of these arrangements, jpmorgan chase &amp; co.'s ability to pay interest on its debt securities and dividends on its equity securities, to redeem or repurchase its outstanding securities and to fulfill its other payment obligations is dependent on it receiving dividends from jpmorgan chase bank, n.a. and dividends and extensions of credit from the ihc. jpmorgan chase bank, n.a. is subject to restrictions on its dividend distributions, capital adequacy and liquidity coverage requirements, and other regulatory restrictions on its ability to make payments to jpmorgan chase &amp; co., and the ihc is prohibited from paying dividends or extending credit to jpmorgan chase &amp; co. if certain capital or liquidity thresholds are breached or if limits are otherwise imposed by the firm's management or board of directors. these regulatory restrictions and limitations on the payments that jpmorgan chase &amp; co. is permitted to receive from jpmorgan chase bank, n.a. and the ihc could reduce or hinder its ability to pay dividends and satisfy its debt and other obligations, or result in jpmorgan chase &amp; co. seeking protection under bankruptcy laws at a time earlier than 13 part i would have been the case absent the existence of such thresholds. reductions in jpmorgan chase's credit ratings may adversely affect its liquidity and cost of funding, as well as the value of debt obligations issued by the firm. jpmorgan chase &amp; co. and certain of its principal subsidiaries are currently rated by credit rating agencies. rating agencies evaluate both general and firm- and industry-specific factors when determining their credit ratings for a particular financial institution, including economic and geopolitical trends, regulatory developments, future profitability, risk management practices, legal expenses, assumptions surrounding government support, and ratings differentials between bank holding companies and their bank and non-bank subsidiaries. although the firm closely monitors and manages, to the extent it is able, factors that could influence its credit ratings, there is no assurance that the firm's credit ratings will not be lowered in the future, or that any such downgrade would not occur at times of broader market instability when the firm's options for responding to events may be more limited and general investor confidence is low. furthermore, a reduction in the firm's credit ratings could reduce the firm's access to capital markets, materially increase the cost of issuing securities, trigger additional collateral or funding requirements, and decrease the number of investors and counterparties willing or permitted, contractually or otherwise, to do business with or lend to the firm, thereby curtailing the firm's business operations and reducing its profitability. in addition, any such reduction in credit ratings may increase the credit spreads charged by the market for taking credit risk on jpmorgan chase &amp; co. and its subsidiaries and, as a result, could adversely affect the value of debt and other obligations that jpmorgan chase &amp; co. and its subsidiaries have issued or may issue in the future. legal risk jpmorgan chase faces significant legal risks, both from regulatory investigations and proceedings and from private actions brought against the firm. jpmorgan chase is named as a defendant or is otherwise involved in various legal proceedings, including class actions and other litigation or disputes with third parties. actions currently pending against the firm may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other results adverse to the firm, which could materially and adversely affect the firm's business, financial condition or results of operations, or cause serious harm to the firm's reputation. as a participant in the financial services industry, it is likely that the firm will continue to experience a high level of litigation related to its businesses and operations. in addition, and as noted above, the firm's businesses and operations are also subject to heightened regulatory oversight and scrutiny, which may lead to additional regulatory investigations or enforcement actions. regulators and other government agencies examine the operations of the firm and its subsidiaries on both a routine- and targeted-exam basis, and there is no assurance that they will not pursue additional regulatory settlements or other enforcement actions against the firm in the future. a violation of law or regulation by another financial institution is likely to give rise to an investigation by regulators and other governmental agencies of the same or similar practices by the firm. for example, various regulatory and governmental agencies have made inquiries to the firm about its sales practices with retail customers, including, among other matters, the firm's incentive compensation structures related to such practices. in addition, a single event may give rise to numerous and overlapping investigations and proceedings, either by multiple federal and state agencies and officials in the u.s. or, in some instances, regulators and other governmental officials in non-u.s. jurisdictions. these and other initiatives from u.s. and non-u.s. governmental authorities and officials may subject the firm to further judgments, settlements, fines or penalties, or cause the firm to be required to restructure its operations and activities or to cease offering certain products or services, all of which could harm the firm's reputation or lead to higher operational costs, thereby reducing the firm's profitability, or result in collateral consequences as discussed above. other business risks any significant failure by the firm's management to anticipate and respond quickly and appropriately to changes in the firm's operating environment or trends affecting the financial services industry, to make prudent decisions regarding the firm's strategy or to execute on that strategy could adversely affect the firm's competitive standing and its earnings and future results of operations. the firm operates in many jurisdictions and offers a wide variety of products and services to its clients and customers. the firm's strategies concerning the products and services that it will offer, the geographies in which it will operate, the types of clients and customers that it will serve and the counterparties with which it will do business, and the methods and distribution channels by which it will offer its products and services, will all affect the firm's competitive standing and its results of operations. if the firm's management makes choices about the firm's business strategies and goals that later prove to have been incorrect, does not accurately assess the competitive landscape and the industry trends affecting the firm or does not formulate effective business plans to address the firm's near- and longer-term strategic priorities, as well as the changing regulatory and market environments in which the firm operates both in the u.s. and abroad, the franchise values and growth prospects of the firm's businesses will suffer and revenues will decline. the prospects of the firm will also depend on management's ability to execute effectively against the firm's strategic plans and to manage the firm's resources to grow revenues, control expenses and return capital to the firm's shareholders. any significant failure by the firm's board of directors to exercise appropriate oversight of management's strategic decisions, or any significant failure by the firm's management to develop and execute on the firm's strategic plans and business initiatives, or the ineffectual 14 implementation of business decisions, the failure of the firm's products or services or dealings with customers to meet customer expectations, inadequate responses to regulatory requirements, the failure to react quickly to changes in market conditions or structure, or the failure to develop the necessary operational, technology, risk, financial, and managerial resources necessary to grow and manage the firm and its various businesses could adversely affect the firm's competitive standing and negatively affect the firm's earnings and future results of operations. jpmorgan chase's operations are subject to risk of loss from unfavorable economic, monetary and political developments in the u.s. and around the world. jpmorgan chase's businesses and earnings are affected by the fiscal and other policies that are adopted by various u.s. and non-u.s. regulatory authorities and agencies. the federal reserve regulates the supply of money and credit in the u.s. and its policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing in the u.s. and the return earned on those loans and investments. changes in federal reserve policies (as well as the fiscal and monetary policies of non-u.s. central banks or regulatory authorities and agencies, such as pegging the exchange rate of their currency to the currencies of others) are beyond the firm's control and may be difficult to predict, and consequently, unanticipated changes in these policies could have a negative impact on the firm's activities and results of operations. the firm's businesses and revenue are also subject to risks inherent in investing and market-making in securities, loans and other obligations of companies worldwide. these risks include, among others, negative effects from slowing growth rates or recessionary economic conditions, or the risk of loss from unfavorable political, legal or other developments, including social or political instability, in the countries or regions in which such companies operate, as well as the other risks and considerations as described further below. several of the firm's businesses engage in transactions with, or trade in obligations of, u.s. and non-u.s. governmental entities, including national, state, provincial, municipal and local authorities. these activities can expose the firm to enhanced sovereign, credit-related, operational and reputation risks, including the risks that a governmental entity may default on or restructure its obligations, claim that actions taken by government officials were beyond the legal authority of those officials or repudiate transactions authorized by a previous incumbent government, any or all of which could adversely affect the firm's financial condition and results of operations. further, various countries or regions in which the firm operates or invests, or in which the firm may do so in the future, have in the past experienced severe economic disruptions particular to those countries or regions. in some cases, concerns regarding the fiscal condition of one or more countries can cause a contraction of available credit and reduced activity among trading partners or create market volatility that could lead to market contagion affecting other countries in the same region or beyond the region. in addition, governments in particular countries or regions in which the firm or its client do business may choose to adopt protectionist economic or trade policies in response to concerns about domestic economic conditions which could lead to diminished cross-border trade and financing activity within that country or region, all of which could negatively affect the firm's business and earnings in those jurisdictions. political and economic uncertainty can also undermine consumer, business and investor confidence, and thereby contribute to market volatility. for example, uncertainties concerning the timing and terms of the u.k.'s planned departure from the eu could have an adverse effect on global financial markets and may adversely impact global economic conditions more generally. furthermore, depending on the nature of the arrangements agreed between the u.k. and the eu, including with respect to the ability of financial services companies to engage in business in the eu from legal entities organized in or operating from the u.k., it is possible that under some scenarios, the firm may need to make changes to its legal entity structure and operations and the locations in which it operates, which might result in a less efficient operating model across the firm's european legal entities. accordingly, it is possible that political or economic developments in certain countries, even in countries in which the firm does not conduct business or have operations or engages in only limited activities, may adversely affect the firm. the firm must comply with economic sanctions and embargo programs administered by ofac and similar multi-national bodies and governmental agencies outside u.s., including, most recently, sanctions targeted at individuals and companies in russia. a violation of a sanction or embargo program could subject the firm, and individual employees, to regulatory enforcement actions as well as significant civil and criminal penalties. jpmorgan chase's operations in emerging markets may be hindered by local political, social and economic factors, and may be subject to additional compliance costs and risks. some of the countries in which jpmorgan chase conducts its businesses have economies or markets that are less developed and more volatile, and may have legal and regulatory regimes that are less established or predictable, than the u.s. and other developed markets in which the firm currently operates. some of these countries have in the past experienced severe economic disruptions, including extreme currency fluctuations, high inflation, low or negative growth, or defaults or potential defaults on sovereign debt, among other negative conditions, or have imposed restrictive monetary policies such as currency exchange controls and other laws and restrictions that adversely affect the local and regional business environment. in addition, these countries, as well as certain more developed countries, have recently been more susceptible to unfavorable political, social or economic developments; these developments have in the past resulted in, and may in the future lead to, social unrest, 15 part i general strikes and demonstrations, crime and corruption, security and personal safety issues, outbreaks of hostilities, overthrow of incumbent governments, terrorist attacks or other forms of internal discord, all of which can adversely affect the firm's operations or investments in such countries. political, social or economic disruption or dislocation in certain countries or regions in which the firm conducts its businesses can hinder the growth and profitability of those operations. less developed legal and regulatory systems in certain countries can also have adverse consequences on the firm's operations in those countries, including, among others, the absence of a statutory or regulatory basis or guidance for engaging in specific types of business or transactions; the promulgation of conflicting or ambiguous laws and regulations or the inconsistent application or interpretation of existing laws and regulations; uncertainty as to the enforceability of contractual obligations; difficulty in competing in economies in which the government controls or protects all or a portion of the local economy or specific businesses, or where graft or corruption may be pervasive; and the threat of arbitrary regulatory investigations, civil litigations or criminal prosecutions, the termination of licenses required to operate in the local market or the suspension of business relationships with governmental bodies. revenue from international operations and trading in non-u.s. securities and other obligations may be subject to negative fluctuations as a result of the above considerations, as well as due to governmental actions including monetary policies, expropriation, nationalization, confiscation of assets, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls, and changes in laws and regulations. the impact of these fluctuations could be accentuated as some trading markets are smaller, less liquid and more volatile than larger markets. also, any of the above-mentioned events or circumstances in one country can affect, and in the past conditions of these types have affected, the firm's operations and investments in another country or countries, including the firm's operations in the u.s. as a result, any such unfavorable conditions or developments could have an adverse impact on the firm's business and results of operations. conducting business in countries with less developed legal and regulatory regimes often requires the firm to devote significant additional resources to understanding, and monitoring changes in, local laws and regulations, as well as structuring its operations to comply with local laws and regulations and implementing and administering related internal policies and procedures. there can be no assurance that the firm will always be successful in its efforts to conduct its business in compliance with laws and regulations in countries with less predictable legal and regulatory systems or that the firm will be able to develop effective working relationships with local regulators. in addition, the firm can also incur higher costs, and face greater compliance risks, in structuring and operating its businesses outside the u.s. to comply with u.s. anti-corruption and anti-money laundering laws and regulations. jpmorgan chase relies on the effectiveness and integrity of its processes, operational systems and employees, and those of third parties, and certain failures of such processes or systems, or errors or misconduct by such employees, could materially and adversely affect the firm's operations. jpmorgan chase's businesses are dependent on the firm's ability to process, record and monitor an increasingly large number of complex transactions and to do so on a faster and more frequent basis. the firm's front- and back-office trading systems similarly rely on their access to, and on the functionality of, the operational systems maintained by third parties such as clearing and payment systems, central counterparties, securities exchanges and data processing and technology companies. if the firm's financial, accounting, trading or other data processing systems, or the operational systems of third parties on which the firm's businesses are dependent, are unable to meet these increasingly demanding standards, or if they fail or have other significant shortcomings, the firm could be materially and adversely affected. moreover, as the speed, frequency, volume and complexity of transactions (and the requirements to report such transactions on a real-time basis to clients, regulators and financial intermediaries) increases, the risk of human and/or systems error in connection with such transactions increases, and it becomes more challenging to maintain the firm's operational systems and infrastructure. the effective functioning of the firm's operational systems is also dependent on the competence and reliability of its employees, as well as the employees of third parties on whom the firm relies for technological support, and the firm could be materially and adversely affected by a significant operational breakdown or failure caused by human error or misconduct by an employee of the firm or a third party. in addition, when the firm changes processes or introduces new products and services or new connectivity solutions, the firm may not fully appreciate or identify new operational risks that may arise from such changes. any of these occurrences could diminish the firm's ability to operate one or more of its businesses, or result in potential liability to clients and customers, increased operating expenses, higher litigation costs (including fines and sanctions), damage to reputation, impairment of liquidity, regulatory intervention or weaker competitive standing, any of which could materially and adversely affect the firm. third parties with which the firm does business, including retailers, data aggregators and other third parties with which the firm's customers do business, can also be sources of operational risk to the firm, particularly where activities of customers or such third parties are beyond the firm's security and control systems, such as through the use of the internet, personal smart phones and other mobile devices or services. as the firm's interconnectivity with customers and other third parties increases, the firm increasingly faces the risk of operational failure with respect to their systems. security breaches affecting the firm's customers, or systems breakdowns or failures, security breaches or human error or misconduct affecting such other third 16 parties, may require the firm to take steps to protect the integrity of its own operational systems or to safeguard confidential information of the firm or its customers, thereby increasing the firm's operational costs and potentially diminishing customer satisfaction. furthermore, the interconnectivity of multiple financial institutions with central agents, exchanges and clearing houses, and the increased importance of these entities, increases the risk that an operational failure at one institution or entity may cause an industry-wide operational failure that could materially impact the firm's ability to conduct business. the firm's businesses are subject to complex and evolving u.s. and non-u.s. laws and regulations governing the privacy and protection of personal information of individuals (including clients, client's clients, employees of the firm and its suppliers and other third parties). ensuring that the firm's collection, use, transfer and storage of personal information complies with all applicable laws and regulations, including where the laws of different jurisdictions are in conflict, can increase the firm's operating costs, impact the development of new products or services and require significant oversight by management, and may require the firm to structure its businesses, operations and systems in less efficient ways. furthermore, the firm may not be able to ensure that all of its clients, suppliers, counterparties and other third parties have appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the information exchanged between them and the firm, particularly where such information is transmitted by electronic means. if personal, confidential or proprietary information of clients, customers, employees or others were to be mishandled or misused (in situations where, for example, such information was erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the information, or where such information was intercepted or otherwise compromised by third parties), the firm could be exposed to litigation or regulatory sanctions. concerns regarding the effectiveness of the firm's measures to safeguard personal information, or even the perception that such measures are inadequate, could cause the firm to lose customers or potential customers for its products and services and thereby reduce the firm's revenues. accordingly, any failure or perceived failure by the firm to comply with applicable privacy or data protection laws and regulations may subject it to inquiries, examinations and investigations that could result in requirements to modify or cease certain operations or practices or significant liabilities, fines or penalties, and could damage the firm's reputation and otherwise adversely affect its businesses. the firm may be subject to disruptions of its operational systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond the firm's control, which may include, for example, security breaches (as discussed further below); electrical or telecommunications outages; failures of computer servers or other damage to the firm's property or assets; natural disasters or severe weather conditions; health emergencies or pandemics; or events arising from local or larger-scale political events, including outbreaks of hostilities or terrorist acts. jpmorgan chase maintains a global resiliency and crisis management program that is intended to ensure that the firm has the ability to recover its critical business functions and supporting assets, including staff, technology and facilities, in the event of a business interruption. while the firm believes that its current resiliency plans are both sufficient and adequate, there can be no assurance that such plans will fully mitigate all potential business continuity risks to the firm or its customers and clients. any failures or disruptions of the firm's systems or operations could give rise to losses in service to customers and clients, adversely affect the firm's business and results of operations by subjecting the firm to losses or liability, or require the firm to expend significant resources to correct the failure or disruption, as well as by exposing the firm to litigation, regulatory fines or penalties or losses not covered by insurance. a breach in the security of jpmorgan chase's systems, or those of other market participants, could disrupt the firm's businesses, result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage the firm's reputation and create significant financial and legal exposure for the firm. although jpmorgan chase devotes significant resources to maintain and regularly upgrade its systems and processes that are designed to protect the security of the firm's computer systems, software, networks and other technology assets, as well as the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information belonging to the firm and its customers and clients, there is no assurance that all of the firm's security measures will provide absolute security. jpmorgan chase and other companies, as well as governmental and political organizations, have reported significant breaches in the security of their websites, networks or other systems, some of which have involved sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to obtain unauthorized access to confidential information, destroy data, disrupt or degrade service, sabotage systems or cause other damage, including through the introduction of computer viruses or malware, cyberattacks and other means. the firm is regularly targeted by unauthorized parties using malicious code and viruses, and has experienced several significant distributed denial-of-service attacks from technically sophisticated and well-resourced third parties which were intended to disrupt online banking services. despite the firm's efforts to ensure the security and integrity of its systems, it is possible that the firm may not be able to anticipate, detect or recognize threats to its systems or to implement effective preventive measures against all security breaches of these types inside or outside the firm, especially because the techniques used change frequently or are not recognized until launched, and because cyberattacks can originate from a wide variety of sources, including third parties who are or may be involved in organized crime or linked to terrorist organizations or hostile foreign governments, and such third parties may seek to gain access to the firm's systems either directly or using equipment or security passwords belonging to employees, customers, third-party service providers or other users of the firm's systems. these risks may increase in the future as the firm continues to increase its mobile-payment and other internet-based product offerings and 17 part i expands its internal usage of web-based products and applications. given the breadth of the firm's operations, the high volume of transactions that it processes, the large number of customers, counterparties and third-party service providers with which the firm does business, and the proliferation and increasing sophistication of cyberattacks, a particular cyberattack could occur and persist for an extended period of time before being detected. the extent of a particular cyberattack and the steps that the firm may need to take to investigate the attack may not be immediately clear, and it may take a significant amount of time before such an investigation could be completed and full and reliable information about the attack is known. during such time the firm may not necessarily know the extent of the harm or how best to remediate it, and certain errors or actions could be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and remediated, any or all of which could further increase the costs and consequences of a cyberattack. a successful penetration or circumvention of the security of the firm's systems or the systems of another market participant could cause serious negative consequences for the firm, including significant disruption of the firm's operations and those of its clients, customers and counterparties, misappropriation of confidential information of the firm or that of its clients, customers, counterparties or employees, or damage to computers or systems of the firm and those of its clients, customers and counterparties, and could result in violations of applicable privacy and other laws, financial loss to the firm or to its customers, loss of confidence in the firm's security measures, customer dissatisfaction, significant litigation exposure and harm to the firm's reputation, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the firm. risk management jpmorgan chase's framework for managing risks and its risk management procedures and practices may not be effective in identifying and mitigating every risk to the firm, thereby resulting in losses. jpmorgan chase's risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and loss to the firm. the firm has established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze the types of risk to which the firm is subject. however, as with any risk management framework, there are inherent limitations to the firm's risk management strategies because there may exist, or develop in the future, risks that the firm has not appropriately anticipated or identified. in addition, the firm relies on data to aggregate and assess its various risk exposures, and any deficiencies in the quality or effectiveness of the firm's data aggregation and validation procedures could result in ineffective risk management practices or inaccurate risk reporting. any lapse in the firm's risk management framework and governance structure or other inadequacies in the design or implementation of the firm's risk management framework, governance, procedures, practices, models or risk reporting systems could, individually or in the aggregate, cause unexpected losses for the firm, materially and adversely affect the firm's financial condition and results of operations, require significant resources to remediate any risk management deficiency, attract heightened regulatory scrutiny, expose the firm to regulatory investigations or legal proceedings, subject the firm to fines, penalties or judgments, harm the firm's reputation, or otherwise cause a decline in investor confidence. the firm establishes allowances for probable credit losses inherent in its credit exposures, and also employs stress testing and other techniques to determine the capital and liquidity necessary to protect the firm in the event of adverse economic or market events. these processes are critical to the firm's financial results and condition, and require difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of how economic conditions might impair the ability of the firm's borrowers and counterparties to repay their loans or other obligations. as is the case with any such assessments, there is always the possibility that the firm will fail to identify the proper factors or that the firm will fail to accurately estimate the impact of factors that it identifies. certain of the firm's trading transactions require the physical settlement by delivery of securities or other obligations that the firm does not own; if the firm is unable to obtain such securities or obligations within the required timeframe for delivery, this could cause the firm to forfeit payments otherwise due to it and could result in settlement delays, which could damage the firm's reputation and ability to transact future business. in addition, in situations where trades are not settled or confirmed on a timely basis, the firm may be subject to heightened credit and operational risk, and in the event of a default, the firm may be exposed to market and operational losses. many of the firm's risk management strategies or techniques have a basis in historical market behavior, and all such strategies and techniques are based to some degree on management's subjective judgment. for example, many models used by the firm are based on assumptions regarding correlations among prices of various asset classes or other market indicators. in times of market stress, including difficult or less liquid market environments, or in the event of other unforeseen circumstances, previously uncorrelated indicators may become correlated, or conversely, previously correlated indicators may make unrelated movements. these sudden market movements or unanticipated or unidentified market or economic movements have in some circumstances limited and could again limit the effectiveness of the firm's risk management strategies, causing the firm to incur losses. many of the models used by the firm are subject to review not only by the firm's model risk function but also by the firm's regulators in order that the firm may utilize such models in connection with the firm's calculations of market risk rwa, credit risk rwa and operational risk rwa under basel iii. the firm may be subject to higher capital charges, which could adversely affect its financial results or limit its ability to expand its businesses, if such models do not receive approval by its regulators. 18 in addition, the firm must comply with enhanced standards for the assessment and management of risks associated with vendors and other third parties that provide services to the firm. these requirements apply to the firm both under general guidance issued by its banking regulators and, more specifically, under certain of the consent orders to which the firm has been subject. the firm has incurred and expects to incur additional costs and expenses in connection with its initiatives to address the risks associated with oversight of its third party relationships. failure by the firm to appropriately assess and manage third party relationships, especially those involving significant banking functions, shared services or other critical activities, could result in potential liability to clients and customers, fines, penalties or judgments imposed by the firm's regulators, increased operating expenses and harm to the firm's reputation, any of which could materially and adversely affect the firm. other risks actions or inaction by employees of the firm may cause harm to the firm's clients and customers, damage the firm's reputation, negatively impact the firm's culture and lead to liability and regulatory and other governmental actions against the firm. jpmorgan chase's employees interact with clients, customers and counterparties every day, and they are expected through their conduct to demonstrate the firm's values and exhibit the culture and behaviors that are an integral part of the firm's how we do business principles, including the firm's commitment to do first class business in a first class way . if an employee takes an action (including a failure to act) that does not comply with the firm's code of conduct, is inconsistent with the firm's how we do business principles or that otherwise harms clients, consumers or the market, such as improperly selling and marketing the firm's product or services, acting illegally with others to establish market prices, improperly hiring individuals related to politically exposed persons or misappropriating firm property or confidential or proprietary information or technology belonging to the firm, its customers or third parties, such activities could give rise to litigation, regulatory or other governmental investigations or enforcement actions, and judgments, settlements, fines or penalties, and lead to requirements that the firm restructure certain of its operations and activities, all of which could harm the firm's reputation or result in collateral consequences. although the firm endeavors to embed culture and conduct risk management throughout an employee's life cycle, including recruiting, onboarding, training and development, and performance management, as well as through the firm's promotion and compensation processes, employees of the firm have, from time to time in the past, engaged in improper or illegal conduct resulting in litigation as well as settlements involving consent orders, deferred prosecution agreements and non-prosecution agreements, as well as other civil and criminal settlements with regulators and other governmental entities, and there is no assurance that further inappropriate actions by employees will not occur or that any such actions will always be deterred or quickly prevented. the financial services industry is highly competitive, and jpmorgan chase's inability to compete successfully may adversely affect its results of operations. jpmorgan chase operates in a highly competitive environment, and the firm expects that competition in the u.s. and global financial services industry will continue to be intense. competitors of the firm include other banks and financial institutions, trading, advisory and investment management firms, finance companies and technology companies and other firms that are engaged in providing similar products and services. technological advances and the growth of e-commerce have made it possible for non-depository institutions to offer products and services that traditionally were banking products, and for financial institutions and other companies to provide electronic and internet-based financial solutions, including electronic securities trading, payment processing and online automated algorithmic-based investment advice. new technologies have required and could require the firm to spend more to modify or adapt its products to attract and retain customers or to match products and services offered by its competitors, including technology companies. ongoing or increased competition, on the basis of the quality and variety of products and services offered, transaction execution, innovation, reputation, price or other factors, may put downward pressure on prices and fees for the firm's products and services or may cause the firm to lose market share. in addition, the failure of any of the firm's businesses to meet the expectations of clients and customers, whether due to general market conditions or underperformance (relative to competitors or to benchmarks), could impact the firm's ability to retain clients and customers or attract new clients and customers, thereby reducing the firm's revenues. increased competition also may require the firm to make additional capital investments in its businesses, or to extend more of its capital on behalf of its clients in order to remain competitive. the firm cannot provide assurance that the significant competition in the financial services industry will not materially and adversely affect its future results of operations. non-u.s. competitors of the firm's wholesale businesses outside the u.s. are typically subject to different, and in some cases, less stringent, legislative and regulatory regimes. the more restrictive laws and regulations applicable to u.s. financial services institutions, such as jpmorgan chase, can put the firm at a competitive disadvantage to its non-u.s. competitors, including prohibiting the firm from engaging in certain transactions, imposing higher capital and liquidity requirements on the firm, making the firm's pricing of certain transactions more expensive for clients or adversely affecting the firm's cost structure for providing certain products, all of which can reduce the revenue and profitability of the firm's wholesale businesses. 19 part i jpmorgan chase's ability to attract and retain qualified employees is critical to its success. jpmorgan chase's employees are the firm's most important resource, and in many areas of the financial services industry, competition for qualified personnel is intense. the firm endeavors to attract talented and diverse new employees and retain and motivate its existing employees. there is the potential for changes in immigration policies in multiple jurisdictions around the world, including the u.s., and to the extent that immigration policies were to unduly restrict or otherwise make it more difficult for qualified employees to work in, or transfer among, jurisdictions in which the firm has operations or conducts its business, the firm could be adversely affected. the firm also seeks to retain a pipeline of senior employees with superior talent, augmented from time to time by external hires, to provide continuity of succession for the firm's operating committee, including the chief executive officer position, and senior positions below the operating committee. the firm regularly reviews candidates for senior management positions to assess whether they currently are ready for a next-level role. in addition, the firm's board of directors is deeply involved in succession planning, including review of the succession plans for the chief executive officer and the members of the operating committee. if the firm were unable to continue to attract or retain qualified employees, including successors to the chief executive officer or members of the operating committee, the firm's performance, including its competitive position, could be materially and adversely affected. jpmorgan chase's financial statements are based in part on estimates and judgments which, if incorrect, could result in unexpected losses in the future. under accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s. ( u.s. gaap ), jpmorgan chase is required to use estimates and apply judgments in preparing its financial statements, including in determining allowances for credit losses and reserves related to litigation, among other items. certain of the firm's financial instruments, including trading assets and liabilities, instruments in the investment securities portfolio, certain loans, msrs, structured notes and certain repurchase and resale agreements, among other items, require a determination of their fair value in order to prepare the firm's financial statements. where quoted market prices are not available, the firm may make fair value determinations based on internally developed models or other means which ultimately rely to some degree on management estimates and judgment. in addition, sudden illiquidity in markets or declines in prices of certain loans and securities may make it more difficult to value certain balance sheet items, which may lead to the possibility that such valuations will be subject to further change or adjustment. if estimates or judgments underlying the firm's financial statements are incorrect, the firm may experience material losses. lapses in disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting could materially and adversely affect the firm's operations, profitability or reputation. there can be no assurance that the firm's disclosure controls and procedures will be effective in every circumstance or that a material weakness or significant deficiency in internal control over financial reporting will not occur. any such lapses or deficiencies may materially and adversely affect the firm's business and results of operations or financial condition, restrict its ability to access the capital markets, require the firm to expend significant resources to correct the lapses or deficiencies, expose the firm to regulatory or legal proceedings, subject it to fines, penalties or judgments, harm the firm's reputation, or otherwise cause a decline in investor confidence. damage to jpmorgan chase's reputation could damage its businesses. maintaining trust in jpmorgan chase is critical to the firm's ability to attract and maintain customers, investors and employees. damage to the firm's reputation can therefore cause significant harm to the firm's business and prospects. harm to the firm's reputation can arise from numerous sources, including, among others, employee misconduct, security breaches, compliance failures, litigation or regulatory outcomes or governmental investigations. the firm's reputation could also be harmed by the failure or perceived failure of an affiliate, joint-venturer or merchant banking portfolio company, or a vendor or other third party with which the firm does business, to comply with laws or regulations. in addition, the firm's reputation or prospects may be significantly damaged by adverse publicity or negative information regarding the firm, whether or not true, that may be posted on social media, non-mainstream news services or other parts of the internet, and this risk can be magnified by the speed and pervasiveness with which information is disseminated through those channels. management of potential conflicts of interest has become increasingly complex as the firm continues to expand its business activities through more numerous transactions, obligations and interests with and among the firm's clients. the failure or perceived failure to adequately address or appropriately disclose conflicts of interest has given rise to litigation and enforcement actions. likewise, the failure or perceived failure to deliver appropriate standards of service and quality, to treat customers and clients fairly, to provide fiduciary products or services in accordance with the applicable legal and regulatory standards, or to handle or use confidential information of customers or clients appropriately or in compliance with applicable data protection and privacy laws and regulations has given rise to litigation and enforcement actions. in the future, a failure or perceived failure to appropriately address conflicts or fiduciary obligations could result in customer dissatisfaction, litigation and heightened regulatory scrutiny and enforcement actions, all of which can lead to lost 20 revenue and higher operating costs and cause serious harm to the firm's reputation. actions by the financial services industry generally or by certain members of or individuals in the industry can also affect the firm's reputation. for example, the role played by financial services firms during and after the financial crisis, including concerns that consumers have been treated unfairly by financial institutions or that a financial institution had acted inappropriately with respect to the methods employed in offering products to customers, have damaged the reputation of the industry as a whole. should any of these or other events or factors that can undermine the firm's reputation occur, there is no assurance that the additional costs and expenses that the firm may need to incur to address the issues giving rise to the damage to its reputation could not adversely affect the firm's earnings and results of operations, or that damage to the firm's reputation will not impair the firm's ability to retain its existing or attract new customers, investors and employees. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 22 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. for a discussion of the quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, see the market risk management section of management's discussion and analysis on pages 116 123 . 22risk factors. 8 26 risk factors. the following discussion sets forth the material risk factors that could affect jpmorgan chase 's financial condition and operations. readers should not consider any descriptions of these factors to be a complete set of all potential risks that could affect the firm. regulatory jpmorgan chase's businesses are highly regulated, and the laws and regulations that apply to jpmorgan chase have a significant impact on its operations. jpmorgan chase is a financial services firm with operations worldwide. jpmorgan chase must comply with the laws and regulations that apply to its operations in all of the jurisdictions around the world in which it does business. the regulation of financial services activities is typically extensive and comprehensive. in recent years, legislators and regulators adopted a wide range of new laws and regulations affecting the financial services industry, both within and outside the u.s. the supervision of financial services firms also expanded significantly during this period. the wave of increased regulation and supervision of jpmorgan chase has affected the way that it conducts and structures its operations. existing and new laws and regulations and expanded supervision could require jpmorgan chase to make further changes to its operations. these changes could result in jpmorgan chase incurring additional costs for complying with laws and regulations or losing a significant amount of revenue, and could reduce jpmorgan chase's profitability. more specifically, existing and new laws and regulations could require jpmorgan chase to: limit the products and services that it offers reduce the liquidity that it can provide through its market-making activities stop or discourage it from engaging in business opportunities that it might otherwise pursue recognize losses in the value of assets that it holds 8 pay higher assessments, levies or other governmental charges dispose of certain assets, and do so at times or prices that are disadvantageous impose restrictions on certain business activities, or increase the prices that it charges for products and services, which could reduce the demand for them. differences in financial services regulation can be disadvantageous for jpmorgan chase's business. the content and application of laws and regulations affecting financial services firms sometimes vary according to factors such as the size of the firm, the jurisdiction in which it is organized or operates, or other criteria. for example: larger firms are often subject to more stringent supervision and regulation financial technology companies and other competitors may not be subject to banking regulation, or may be supervised by a national or state regulatory agency that does not have the same resources or regulatory priorities as the regulatory agencies which supervise more diversified financial services firms, or the financial services regulatory framework in a particular jurisdiction may favor financial institutions that are based in that country. there can also be significant differences in the ways that similar regulatory initiatives affecting the financial services industry are implemented in the u.s. and in different countries and regions in which jpmorgan chase does business. for example, legislative and regulatory initiatives within the eu could require jpmorgan chase to make significant modifications to its operations and legal entity structure in that region in order to comply with those requirements. these include laws and regulations that have been adopted or proposed relating to: the resolution of financial institutions the establishment by non-eu financial institutions of intermediate holding companies in the eu the separation of trading activities from core banking services mandatory on-exchange trading position limits and reporting rules for derivatives governance and accountability regimes conduct of business requirements, and restrictions on compensation. these types of differences in financial services regulation, or inconsistencies or conflicts between laws and regulations between different jurisdictions, could require jpmorgan chase to, among other things: divest assets or restructure its operations absorb increased operational, capital and liquidity costs change the prices that it charges for its products and services curtail the products and services that it offers to its customers and clients, or incur higher costs for complying with different legal and regulatory frameworks. any or all of these factors could harm jpmorgan chase's ability to compete against other firms that are not subject to the same laws and regulations or supervisory oversight, or harm jpmorgan chase's businesses, results of operations and profitability. governments in some countries in which jpmorgan chase does business have adopted laws or regulations which require that jpmorgan chase subsidiaries which operate in those countries maintain minimum amounts of capital or liquidity on a stand-alone basis. some regulators outside the u.s. have also proposed that large banks which conduct certain businesses in their jurisdictions operate through separate subsidiaries located in those countries. these requirements, and any future laws or regulations that impose restrictions on the way jpmorgan chase organizes its businesses or increase the capital or liquidity requirements that would apply to jpmorgan chase subsidiaries, could hinder jpmorgan chase's ability to efficiently manage its operations, increase its funding and liquidity costs, and result in lower profitability. heightened regulatory scrutiny of jpmorgan chase's businesses has increased its compliance costs and could result in restrictions on its operations. jpmorgan chase's operations are subject to heightened oversight and scrutiny from regulatory authorities in many jurisdictions where jpmorgan chase does business. jpmorgan chase has paid significant fines or provided other monetary relief in connection with resolving several investigations and enforcement actions by governmental agencies. jpmorgan chase could become subject to similar regulatory settlements or other actions in the future, and addressing the requirements of any such settlement could result in jpmorgan chase incurring higher operational and compliance costs. in connection with resolving specific regulatory investigations or enforcement actions, certain regulators have required jpmorgan chase and other financial institutions to admit wrongdoing with respect to the activities that gave rise to the settlement. these types of admissions can lead to: greater exposure in civil litigation damage to reputation disqualification from doing business with certain clients or customers, or in specific jurisdictions, or 9 part i other direct and indirect adverse effects. furthermore, u.s. government officials have demonstrated a willingness to bring criminal actions against financial institutions and have increasingly demanded that institutions plead guilty to criminal offenses or admit other wrongdoing in connection with resolving regulatory investigations or enforcement actions. in the case of jpmorgan chase, these resolutions have included: jpmorgan chase's agreement in may 2015 to plead guilty to a single violation of federal antitrust law in connection with its settlements with certain government authorities relating to its foreign exchange sales and trading activities and controls related to those activities, and the non-prosecution agreement entered into by a subsidiary of jpmorgan chase with the u.s. department of justice in november 2016 in connection with settlements to resolve various governmental investigations relating to a former hiring program for candidates referred by clients, potential clients and government officials in the asia pacific region. resolutions of this type can have significant collateral consequences for the subject financial institution, including loss of clients, customers and business, the inability to offer certain products or services, or losing permission to operate certain businesses, either temporarily or permanently. jpmorgan chase expects that it and other financial services firms will continue to be subject to expanded regulatory scrutiny and governmental investigations and enforcement actions. jpmorgan chase also expects that regulators will continue to insist that financial institutions be penalized for actual or deemed violations of law with formal and punitive enforcement actions, including the imposition of significant monetary and other sanctions, rather than resolving these matters through informal supervisory actions. furthermore, if jpmorgan chase fails to meet the requirements of any governmental settlements and other actions to which it is subject, or to maintain risk and control processes that meet the heightened standards established by its regulators, it could be required to, among other things: enter into further orders and settlements pay additional regulatory fines, penalties or judgments, or accept material regulatory restrictions on, or changes in the management of, its businesses. the extent of jpmorgan chase's exposure to legal and regulatory matters can be unpredictable and could, in some cases, exceed the amount of reserves that jpmorgan chase has established for those matters. requirements for the orderly resolution of jpmorgan chase could result in jpmorgan chase having to restructure or reorganize its businesses. jpmorgan chase is required under the dodd-frank act and federal reserve and fdic rules to prepare and submit periodically to those agencies a detailed plan for rapid and orderly resolution in bankruptcy without extraordinary government support, in the event of material financial distress or failure. the agencies' evaluation of the firm's resolution plan may change, and the requirements for resolution plans may be modified from time to time. any such determinations or modifications could result in jpmorgan chase making changes to its legal entity structure or to certain internal or external activities that could increase funding or operational costs. if the federal reserve and the fdic were to determine that a future resolution plan submitted by jpmorgan chase has deficiencies, they could jointly impose more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements or restrictions on jpmorgan chase's growth, activities or operations. after two years, if the deficiencies are not cured, the agencies could also require that jpmorgan chase restructure, reorganize or divest assets or businesses in ways that could materially and adversely affect jpmorgan chase's operations and strategy. holders of jpmorgan chase &amp; co.'s debt and equity securities will absorb losses if it were to enter into a resolution. federal reserve rules require that jpmorgan chase &amp; co. (the holding company ) maintain minimum levels of unsecured external long-term debt and other loss-absorbing capacity with specific terms ( eligible ltd ) for purposes of recapitalizing jpmorgan chase's operating subsidiaries if the holding company were to enter into a resolution either: in a bankruptcy proceeding under chapter 11 of the u.s. bankruptcy code, or in a receivership administered by the fdic under title ii of the dodd-frank act ( title ii ). if the holding company were to enter into a resolution, holders of eligible ltd and other debt and equity securities of the holding company will absorb the losses of the holding company and its affiliates. the preferred single point of entry strategy under jpmorgan chase's resolution plan contemplates that only the holding company would enter bankruptcy proceedings. jpmorgan chase's subsidiaries would be recapitalized as needed so that they could continue normal operations or subsequently be divested or wound down in an orderly manner. as a result, the holding company's losses and any losses incurred by its subsidiaries would be imposed first on holders of the holding company's equity securities and thereafter on its unsecured creditors, including holders of eligible ltd and other debt securities. claims of holders of those securities would have a junior position to the claims of creditors of jpmorgan chase's subsidiaries and to the claims of priority (as determined by statute) and secured creditors of the holding company. accordingly, in a resolution of the holding company in bankruptcy, holders of eligible ltd and other debt securities of the holding company would realize value only to the 10 extent available to the holding company as a shareholder of jpmorgan chase bank, n.a. and its other subsidiaries, and only after any claims of priority and secured creditors of the holding company have been fully repaid. the fdic has similarly indicated that a single point of entry recapitalization model could be a desirable strategy to resolve a systemically important financial institution, such as the holding company, under title ii. however, the fdic has not, to date, formally adopted a single point of entry resolution strategy. if the holding company were to enter into a resolution, none of the holding company, the federal reserve or the fdic is obligated to follow jpmorgan chase's preferred strategy, and losses to holders of eligible ltd and other debt and equity securities of the holding company, under whatever strategy is ultimately followed, could be greater. political political developments can cause uncertainty concerning the regulatory environment in which jpmorgan chase operates its businesses. recent elections and referendums in the u.s. and abroad have introduced uncertainty regarding the regulatory environment in which jpmorgan chase and other financial services firms will operate in the future. for example, the u.k.'s planned departure from the eu has engendered significant uncertainty concerning the regulatory framework under which global financial services institutions, including jpmorgan chase, will need to conduct their business in the u.k. and the eu. depending on the nature of the arrangements agreed between the u.k. and the eu, including with respect to the ability of financial services companies to engage in business in the eu from legal entities organized in or operating from the u.k., jpmorgan chase may need to make significant changes to its legal entity structure and operations and the locations in which it operates. these types of structural and operational changes could result in jpmorgan chase needing to implement an operating model across its european legal entities that is less efficient or cost-effective. the result of an election may suggest that the new administration will ease the regulatory requirements that apply to financial services firms. however, it is equally possible that the potential for reduced regulation does not occur or is reversed by another regulator or by a subsequent administration, or that deregulation measures that are ultimately enacted deliver significant competitive advantages to financial services firms that are structured differently or serve different markets than jpmorgan chase. jpmorgan chase cannot predict political developments of this nature, or whether they will have favorable or unfavorable long-term effects on its businesses. economic uncertainty caused by political developments can hurt jpmorgan chase's businesses. the economic environment and market conditions in which jpmorgan chase operates continue to be uncertain due to recent political developments in the u.s. and abroad. certain policy proposals, including isolationist foreign policies, protectionist trade policies or the possible withdrawal or reduction of government support for gses, could cause a contraction in u.s. and global economic growth and higher volatility in the financial markets. these types of political developments could, among other things: erode investor confidence in the u.s. economy and financial markets heighten concerns about whether the u.s. government will be funded, and its outstanding debt serviced, at any particular time, and undermine the status of the u.s. dollar as a safe haven currency. these factors could lead to greater market volatility, large-scale sales of u.s. government debt and other u.s. debt and equity securities, the widening of credit spreads and other market dislocations. any of these potential outcomes could cause jpmorgan chase to suffer losses in its investment securities portfolio, reduce its capital levels, hamper its ability to deliver products and services to its clients and customers, and weaken its results of operations. political developments in other parts of the world have also led to uncertainty in global economic conditions, including: concerns about the capabilities and intentions of the government of north korea, and regional hostilities, and political or social upheavals, in other parts of the world. jpmorgan chase's results of operations can be adversely affected by the uncertainty arising from significant political developments and any market volatility or disruption that results from that uncertainty. the positive impact of u.s. tax reform legislation on jpmorgan chase may diminish over time. the long-term impact of the tax reform legislation recently enacted in the u.s. on jpmorgan chase and the u.s. economy is not yet known. while the tax reform will have a positive impact on jpmorgan chase's net income, the competitive environment and other factors will influence the extent to which these benefits are retained by jpmorgan chase over the longer term. in addition, the specific impact on jpmorgan chase's businesses, products and geographies may vary. market jpmorgan chase's businesses are materially affected by economic and market conditions. jpmorgan chase's results of operations can be negatively affected by adverse changes in any of the following: the liquidity in the u.s. and global financial markets the level and volatility of market prices and rates, including those for debt and equity instruments, 11 part i currencies, commodities, interest rates and other market indices investor, consumer and business sentiment events that reduce confidence in the financial markets inflation and unemployment the availability and cost of capital and credit the economic effects of natural disasters, severe weather conditions, health emergencies or pandemics, cyberattacks, outbreaks of hostilities, terrorism or other geopolitical instabilities monetary and fiscal policies and actions taken by governmental authorities, including the federal reserve and other central banks, and the health of the u.s. and global economies. jpmorgan chase's consumer businesses are particularly affected by u.s. domestic economic conditions, including: u.s. interest rates the rate of unemployment housing prices the level of consumer confidence changes in consumer spending, and the number of personal bankruptcies. sustained low growth in the u.s. economy could diminish customer demand for the products and services offered by jpmorgan chase's consumer businesses. it could also increase the cost to provide those products and services. adverse economic conditions could also lead to an increase in delinquencies in mortgage, credit card, auto and other loans and higher net charge-offs, which can reduce jpmorgan chase's earnings. these consequences could be significantly worse in certain geographies where high levels of unemployment have resulted from declining industrial or manufacturing activity. jpmorgan chase's earnings from its consumer businesses could also be adversely affected by changes in government policies that affect consumers, including those relating to medical insurance, immigration and employment status, as well as governmental policies aimed at the economy more broadly, such as infrastructure spending and global trade, which could result in, among other things, higher inflation or reductions in consumer disposable income. in jpmorgan chase's wholesale businesses, market and economic factors can affect the volume of transactions that jpmorgan chase executes for its clients and, therefore, the revenue that jpmorgan chase receives from those transactions. these factors can also influence the willingness of other financial institutions and investors to participate in capital markets transactions that jpmorgan chase manages, such as loan syndications or securities underwritings. furthermore, if a significant and sustained deterioration in market conditions were to occur, the profitability of jpmorgan chase's capital markets businesses could be reduced to the extent that those businesses: earn less fee revenue due to lower transaction volumes, including when clients are unwilling or unable to refinance their outstanding debt obligations in unfavorable market conditions dispose of portions of credit commitments, such as loan syndications or securities underwritings, at a loss, or hold larger residual positions in credit commitments that cannot be sold at favorable prices. jpmorgan chase's investment securities portfolio and market-making positions can suffer losses due to adverse economic, market and political events and conditions. jpmorgan chase generally maintains positions in various fixed income instruments in its investment securities portfolio, and positions in various fixed income, currency, commodity, credit and equity instruments as part of its market-making activities. market-making positions are intended to facilitate demand from jpmorgan chase's clients for these instruments and to provide liquidity for clients. the value of the positions that jpmorgan chase holds can be significantly affected by factors such as: jpmorgan chase's ability to effectively hedge market and other risks on its positions volatility in interest rates and debt, equity and commodities markets changes in interest rates and credit spreads, and the availability of liquidity in the capital markets. all of these are affected by global economic, market and political events and conditions, as well as regulatory restrictions on market-making activities. jpmorgan chase's investment securities portfolio and market-making businesses can also suffer losses due to unanticipated market events, including: severe declines in asset values unexpected credit events unforeseen events or conditions that may cause previously uncorrelated factors to become correlated (and vice versa), or other market risks that may not have been appropriately taken into account in the development, structuring or pricing of a financial instrument. if jpmorgan chase experiences significant losses in its investment securities portfolio or from market-making activities, this could reduce jpmorgan chase's profitability and its capital levels, and thereby constrain the growth of its businesses. 12 jpmorgan chase's asset and wealth management and custody businesses may earn lower fee revenue during adverse macroeconomic conditions. the fees that jpmorgan chase earns from managing third-party assets or holding assets in custody for clients could be diminished by declining asset values or other adverse macroeconomic conditions. for example, higher interest rates or a downturn in financial markets could affect the valuations of the client assets that jpmorgan chase manages or holds in custody, which, in turn, could affect jpmorgan chase's revenue from fees that are based on the amount of assets under management or custody. similarly, adverse macroeconomic or market conditions could prompt outflows from jpmorgan chase funds or accounts, or cause clients to invest in products that generate lower revenue. substantial and unexpected withdrawals from a jpmorgan chase fund can also hamper the investment performance of the fund, particularly if the outflows create the need for the fund to dispose of fund assets at disadvantageous times or prices, and could lead to further withdrawals based on the weaker investment performance. changes in interest rates and credit spreads can adversely affect certain of jpmorgan chase's revenue and income streams. jpmorgan chase can generally be expected to earn higher net interest income when interest rates are high or increasing. however, higher interest rates can also lead to: fewer originations of commercial and residential loans lower returns on jpmorgan chase's investment securities portfolio, and the loss of deposits to the extent that jpmorgan chase makes incorrect assumptions about depositor behavior. all of these outcomes could adversely affect jpmorgan chase's revenues and capital levels. higher interest rates can also negatively affect the payment performance on loans within jpmorgan chase's consumer and wholesale loan portfolios that are linked to variable interest rates. if borrowers of variable rate loans are unable to afford higher interest payments, those borrowers may reduce or stop making payments, thereby causing jpmorgan chase to incur losses and increased operational costs related to servicing a higher volume of delinquent loans. on the other hand, a low interest rate environment may cause jpmorgan chase's net interest margins to be compressed, which could reduce: the amounts that jpmorgan chase earns on its investment securities portfolio to the extent that it is unable to reinvest contemporaneously in higher-yielding instruments, and the value of jpmorgan chase's mortgage servicing rights ( msrs ) asset, thereby reducing its net interest income and other revenues. when credit spreads widen, it becomes more expensive for jpmorgan chase to borrow. jpmorgan chase's credit spreads may widen or narrow not only in response to events and circumstances that are specific to jpmorgan chase but also as a result of general economic and geopolitical events and conditions. changes in jpmorgan chase's credit spreads will affect, positively or negatively, jpmorgan chase's earnings on certain liabilities, such as derivatives, that are recorded at fair value. high market volatility can impact jpmorgan chase's markets businesses. while jpmorgan chase's markets businesses may earn higher flow revenue during periods of elevated market volatility, sudden and significant volatility in the prices of securities, loans, derivatives and other instruments can: curtail the trading markets for those instruments make it difficult to sell or hedge those instruments increase jpmorgan chase's funding costs, or adversely affect jpmorgan chase's profitability, capital or liquidity. the federal reserve has observed that market volatility may be exacerbated by regulatory restrictions. it noted that market participants that are subject to the volcker rule are likely to decrease their market-making activities, and thereby constrain market liquidity, during periods of market stress. furthermore, market participants that are not required to hold substantial amounts of capital may retreat more quickly from volatile markets, which could further reduce market liquidity. in a difficult or less liquid market environment, jpmorgan chase's risk management strategies may not be effective because other market participants may be attempting to use the same or similar strategies. in these circumstances, it may be difficult for jpmorgan chase to reduce its risk positions due to the activity of other market participants or widespread market dislocations. sustained volatility in the financial markets may also negatively affect consumer or investor confidence, which could lead to lower client activity and reduce jpmorgan chase's revenues. credit jpmorgan chase can be adversely affected by the financial condition of its clients, customers and counterparties. jpmorgan chase routinely executes transactions with brokers and dealers, commercial and investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, investment managers and other types of financial institutions. many of these transactions expose jpmorgan chase to the credit risk of its clients and counterparties, and can involve jpmorgan chase in disputes and litigation in the event that a client or counterparty defaults. jpmorgan chase can also be subject to losses or liability where a financial institution that it has appointed to 13 part i provide custody services for assets of jpmorgan chase's clients becomes insolvent. disputes may arise with counterparties to derivatives contracts with regard to the terms, the settlement procedures or the value of underlying collateral. the disposition of those disputes could cause jpmorgan chase to incur unexpected transaction, operational and legal costs, or result in credit losses. these consequences can also impair jpmorgan chase's ability to effectively manage its credit risk exposure from its market activities. jpmorgan chase's markets businesses can be harmed by the insolvency of a significant market participant. the failure of a significant market participant, or concerns about the creditworthiness of such a firm, can have a cascading effect within the financial markets. jpmorgan chase's markets businesses could be significantly disrupted by such an event, particularly if it leads to other market participants incurring significant losses, experiencing liquidity issues or defaulting. jpmorgan chase's clearing services business is exposed to the risk of client or counterparty default. as part of its clearing services activities, jpmorgan chase is a member of various central counterparty clearinghouses ( ccps ). in the event that another member of such an organization defaults on its obligations to the ccp, jpmorgan chase may be required to pay a portion of any losses incurred by the ccp as a result of that default. as a clearing member, jpmorgan chase is also exposed to the risk of non-performance by its clients, which it seeks to mitigate by requiring clients to provide adequate collateral. jpmorgan chase is exposed to intra-day credit risk of its clients in connection with providing cash management, clearing, custodial and other transaction services to those clients. if a client for which jpmorgan chase provides these services becomes bankrupt or insolvent, jpmorgan chase may incur losses, become involved in disputes and litigation with one or more ccps, the client's bankruptcy estate and other creditors, or be subject to regulatory investigations. all of the foregoing events can increase jpmorgan chase's operational and litigation costs, and jpmorgan chase may suffer losses to the extent that any collateral that it has received is insufficient to cover those losses. jpmorgan chase may suffer losses if the value of collateral declines in stressed market conditions. during periods of market stress or illiquidity, jpmorgan chase's credit risk may be further increased when jpmorgan chase cannot realize the fair value of the collateral held by it or when collateral is liquidated at prices that are not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan, derivative or other exposure due to it. furthermore, disputes with counterparties concerning the valuation of collateral may increase in times of significant market stress, volatility or illiquidity, and jpmorgan chase could suffer losses during these periods if it is unable to realize the fair value of collateral or to manage declines in the value of collateral. jpmorgan chase could incur significant losses arising from concentrations of credit and market risk. jpmorgan chase is exposed to greater credit and market risk to the extent that groupings of its clients or counterparties: engage in similar businesses do business in the same geographic region, or have business profiles, models or strategies that could cause their ability to meet their obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic conditions. for example, a significant deterioration in the credit quality of one of jpmorgan chase's borrowers or counterparties could lead to concerns about the creditworthiness of other borrowers or counterparties in similar, related or dependent industries. this type of interrelationship could exacerbate jpmorgan chase's credit and market risk exposure and potentially cause it to incur losses, including fair value losses in its trading businesses. similarly, challenging economic conditions that affect a particular industry or geographic area could lead to concerns about the credit quality of jpmorgan chase's borrowers or counterparties not only in that particular industry or geography but in related or dependent industries, wherever located. these conditions could also heighten concerns about the ability of customers of jpmorgan chase's consumer businesses who live in those areas or work in those affected industries or related or dependent industries to meet their obligations to jpmorgan chase. jpmorgan chase regularly monitors various segments of its credit and market risk exposures to assess the potential risks of concentration or contagion, but its efforts to diversify or hedge its exposures against those risks may not be successful. jpmorgan chase's consumer businesses can also be harmed by an excessive, industry-wide expansion of consumer credit. for example, heightened competition among financial institutions for certain types of consumer loans, including credit card, mortgage, auto or other loans, could prompt significant reductions in the pricing of those loans and thereby decrease their profitability, or result in loans being extended to less-creditworthy borrowers. if large numbers of consumers subsequently default on their loans, whether due to weak credit profiles, an economic downturn or other factors, this could impair their ability to repay obligations owed to jpmorgan chase and result in higher charge-offs and other credit-related losses. more broadly, widespread defaults on consumer debt could lead to recessionary conditions in the u.s. economy, and jpmorgan chase's consumer businesses may earn lower revenues in such an environment. disruptions in the liquidity or transparency of the financial markets could cause jpmorgan chase to be unable to sell, syndicate or realize the value of its positions in various debt instruments, loans, derivatives and other obligations, and thereby lead to increased risk concentrations. if jpmorgan 14 chase is unable to reduce positions effectively during a market dislocation, this can increase both the market and credit risks associated with those positions and the level of risk-weighted assets ( rwa ) that jpmorgan chase holds on its balance sheet. these factors could increase jpmorgan chase's capital requirements and funding costs and adversely affect the profitability of jpmorgan chase's businesses. liquidity liquidity is critical to jpmorgan chase's ability to fund and operate its businesses. jpmorgan chase's liquidity could be impaired at any given time by factors such as: market-wide illiquidity or disruption unforeseen cash or capital requirements inability to sell assets, or to sell assets at favorable times or prices default by a ccp or other significant market participant unanticipated outflows of cash or collateral, and lack of market or customer confidence in jpmorgan chase or financial institutions in general. a diminution of jpmorgan chase's liquidity may be caused by events over which it has little or no control. for example, during the 2008-2009 financial crisis, periods of low investor confidence and significant market illiquidity resulted in higher funding costs for jpmorgan chase and limited its access to some of its traditional sources of liquidity, including securitized debt issuances. there is no assurance that severe conditions of this type will not occur in the future. jpmorgan chase may need to raise funding from alternative sources if its access to stable and lower-cost sources of funding, such as bank deposits and borrowings from federal home loan banks, is reduced. alternative sources of funding could be more expensive or limited in availability. jpmorgan chase's funding costs could also be negatively affected by actions that jpmorgan chase may take in order to: satisfy applicable liquidity coverage ratio and net stable funding ratio requirements continue to satisfy requirements under the tlac rules concerning the amount of eligible ltd that jpmorgan chase must have outstanding address obligations under its resolution plan, or satisfy regulatory requirements in countries outside the u.s. relating to the pre-positioning of liquidity in subsidiaries that are material legal entities. more generally, if jpmorgan chase fails to effectively manage its liquidity, this could constrain its ability to fund or invest in its businesses, and thereby adversely affect its results of operations. jpmorgan chase &amp; co. is a holding company and depends on the cash flows of its subsidiaries to make payments on its outstanding securities. jpmorgan chase &amp; co. is a holding company that holds the stock of jpmorgan chase bank, n.a. and an intermediate holding company, jpmorgan chase holdings llc (the ihc ). the ihc in turn holds the stock of substantially all of jpmorgan chase's subsidiaries other than jpmorgan chase bank, n.a. and its subsidiaries. the ihc also owns other assets and intercompany indebtedness owing to the holding company. the holding company is obligated to contribute to the ihc substantially all the net proceeds received from securities issuances (including issuances of senior and subordinated debt securities and of preferred and common stock). the ability of jpmorgan chase bank, n.a. and the ihc to make payments to the holding company is also limited. jpmorgan chase bank, n.a. is subject to restrictions on its dividend distributions, as well as capital adequacy and liquidity requirements and other regulatory restrictions on its ability to make payments to the holding company. the ihc is prohibited from paying dividends or extending credit to the holding company if certain capital or liquidity thresholds are breached or if limits are otherwise imposed by jpmorgan chase's management or board of directors. as a result of these arrangements, the ability of the holding company to make various payments is dependent on its receiving dividends from jpmorgan chase bank, n.a. and dividends and extensions of credit from the ihc. these limitations could affect the holding company's ability to: pay interest on its debt securities pay dividends on its equity securities redeem or repurchase outstanding securities, and fulfill its other payment obligations. collectively, these regulatory restrictions and limitations could significantly limit the holding company's ability to pay dividends and satisfy its debt and other obligations. they could also result in the holding company seeking protection under bankruptcy laws at a time earlier than would have been the case absent the existence of those thresholds. reductions in jpmorgan chase's credit ratings may adversely affect its liquidity and cost of funding. jpmorgan chase &amp; co. and certain of its principal subsidiaries are rated by credit rating agencies. rating agencies evaluate both general and firm- and industry-specific factors when determining their credit ratings for a particular financial institution, including: economic and geopolitical trends regulatory developments expected future profitability 15 part i risk management practices legal expenses assumptions about government support, and ratings differentials between bank holding companies and their bank and non-bank subsidiaries. jpmorgan chase closely monitors and manages, to the extent that it is able, factors that could influence its credit ratings. however, there is no assurance that jpmorgan chase's credit ratings will not be lowered in the future. furthermore, any such downgrade could occur at times of broader market instability when jpmorgan chase's options for responding to events may be more limited and general investor confidence is low. a reduction in jpmorgan chase's credit ratings could curtail jpmorgan chase's business activities and reduce its profitability in a number of ways, including by: reducing access to capital markets materially increasing the cost of issuing and servicing securities triggering additional collateral or funding requirements, and decreasing the number of investors and counterparties that are willing or permitted to do business with or lend to jpmorgan chase. any rating reduction could also increase the credit spreads charged by the market for taking credit risk on jpmorgan chase &amp; co. and its subsidiaries. this could, in turn, adversely affect the value of debt and other obligations of jpmorgan chase &amp; co. and its subsidiaries. regulation and reform of benchmarks could have adverse consequences on securities and other instruments that are linked to those benchmarks. interest rate, equity, foreign exchange rate and other types of indices which are deemed to be benchmarks are the subject of recent international, national and other regulatory guidance and proposals for reform. some of these reforms are already effective while others are still to be implemented. these reforms may cause benchmarks to perform differently than in the past, or to disappear entirely, or have other consequences which cannot be fully anticipated. any of the international, national or other proposals for reform or the general increased regulatory scrutiny of benchmarks could also increase the costs and risks of administering or otherwise participating in the setting of benchmarks and complying with any such regulations or requirements. such factors may have the effect of discouraging market participants from continuing to administer or contribute to certain benchmarks, trigger changes in the rules or methodologies used in certain benchmarks or lead to the disappearance of certain benchmarks. on july 27, 2017, the chief executive of the u.k. financial conduct authority (the fca ), which regulates the london interbank offered rate ( libor ), announced that the fca will no longer persuade or compel banks to submit rates for the calculation of the libor benchmark after 2021. this announcement indicates that the continuation of libor on the current basis cannot and will not be guaranteed after 2021, and it appears likely that libor will be discontinued or modified by 2021. any of the these developments, and any future initiatives to regulate, reform or change the manner of administration of benchmarks, could result in adverse consequences to the return on, value of and market for securities and other instruments whose returns are linked to any such benchmark, including those issued by jpmorgan chase or its subsidiaries. operational jpmorgan chase's businesses are highly dependent on the effectiveness of its operational systems and those of other market participants. jpmorgan chase's businesses rely comprehensively on the ability of jpmorgan chase's financial, accounting, trading, data processing and other operational systems to process, record, monitor and report a large number of transactions on a continuous basis, and to do so accurately and quickly. in addition to proper design, installation, maintenance and training, the effective functioning of jpmorgan chase's operational systems depends on, among other things: the quality of the information contained in those systems, as inaccurate, outdated or corrupted data can significantly compromise the functionality of a particular operational system and other systems to which it transmits information, and jpmorgan chase's ability to appropriately maintain and upgrade its systems on a regular basis, and to ensure that any changes introduced to its systems are managed carefully to ensure operational continuity. jpmorgan chase also depends on its ability to access and use the operational systems of its vendors, custodians and other market participants, including clearing and payment systems, ccps, securities exchanges and data processing, security and technology companies. the ineffectiveness, failure or other disruption of the operational systems of jpmorgan chase or another significant market participant, including due to a cyberbreach, could result in unfavorable ripple effects in the financial markets and for jpmorgan chase and its clients and customers, including: delays or other disruptions in providing information, services and liquidity to clients and customers the inability to settle transactions or obtain access to funds and other assets 16 the possibility that transactions such as funds transfers or capital markets trades are executed erroneously, illegally or with unintended consequences financial losses, including possible restitution to clients and customers higher operational costs associated with replacing services provided by a system that is unavailable customer dissatisfaction and loss of confidence in jpmorgan chase's products and services, and harm to reputation. furthermore, the interconnectivity of multiple financial institutions with central agents, ccps, payment processors, securities exchanges, clearing houses and other financial market infrastructures, and the increased importance of these entities, increases the risk that an operational failure at one institution or entity may cause an industry-wide operational failure that could materially affect jpmorgan chase's ability to conduct business. as the speed, frequency, volume and complexity of transactions increases, it becomes more challenging to effectively maintain jpmorgan chase's operational systems and infrastructure, especially due to the heightened risks that: errors, whether inadvertent or malicious, cause widespread system disruption isolated or seemingly insignificant errors in operational systems compound, or migrate to other systems over time, to become larger issues failures in synchronization or encryption software, or degraded performance of microprocessors due to design flaws, causes disruptions in operational systems, or the inability of systems to communicate with each other, and third parties attempt to block the use of key technology solutions by claiming that the use infringes on their intellectual property rights. if jpmorgan chase's operational systems, or those of third parties on which jpmorgan chase's businesses depend, are unable to meet the demanding standards of jpmorgan chase's businesses and operations, or if they fail or have other significant shortcomings, jpmorgan chase could be materially and adversely affected. jpmorgan chase relies on the skill and integrity of its employees and those of third parties in running its operational systems. the effective functioning of jpmorgan chase's operational systems also depends on the competence and reliability of its employees, as well as the employees of third parties on whom jpmorgan chase depends for technological support, security or other services. jpmorgan chase could be materially and adversely affected by a significant operational breakdown or failure caused by human error or misconduct by an employee of jpmorgan chase or a third party. jpmorgan chase can be negatively affected if it fails to identify and address operational risks associated with new products or processes. when jpmorgan chase changes processes or introduces new products and services or new connectivity solutions, jpmorgan chase may not fully appreciate or identify new operational risks that may arise from those changes, or may fail to implement adequate controls to mitigate the risks associated with new business activities. any of these occurrences could diminish jpmorgan chase's ability to operate one or more of its businesses or result in: potential liability to clients and customers increased operating expenses higher litigation costs, including regulatory fines, penalties and other sanctions damage to jpmorgan chase's reputation impairment of jpmorgan chase's liquidity regulatory intervention, or weaker competitive standing. any of the foregoing consequences could materially and adversely affect jpmorgan chase's businesses and results of operations. jpmorgan chase's connections to third-party operational systems expose it to greater operational risks. third parties with which jpmorgan chase does business, as well as retailers, data aggregators and other third parties with which jpmorgan chase's customers do business, can also be sources of operational risk to jpmorgan chase. this is particularly the case where activities of customers or those third parties are beyond jpmorgan chase's security and control systems, including through the use of the internet, personal smart phones and other mobile devices or services. if a third party obtains access to customer account data on jpmorgan chase's systems, and that third party experiences a cyberbreach of its own systems or misappropriates that data, this could result in a variety of negative outcomes for jpmorgan chase and its customers, including: heightened risk that third parties will be able to execute fraudulent transactions using jpmorgan chase's systems losses from fraudulent transactions, as well as potential liability for losses that exceed thresholds established in consumer protection laws and regulations increased operational costs to remediate the consequences of the third party's security breach, and harm to reputation arising from the perception that jpmorgan chase's systems may not be secure. 17 part i as jpmorgan chase's interconnectivity with customers and other third parties expands, jpmorgan chase increasingly faces the risk of operational failure with respect to their systems. security breaches affecting jpmorgan chase's customers, or systems breakdowns or failures, security breaches or human error or misconduct affecting those other third parties, may require jpmorgan chase to take steps to protect the integrity of its own operational systems or to safeguard confidential information. these actions can increase jpmorgan chase's operational costs and potentially diminish customer satisfaction. jpmorgan chase faces substantial legal and operational risks in safeguarding personal information. jpmorgan chase's businesses are subject to complex and evolving laws and regulations, both within and outside the u.s., governing the privacy and protection of personal information of individuals. the protected parties can include: jpmorgan chase's clients and customers clients and customers of jpmorgan chase's clients and customers jpmorgan chase's employees, and employees of jpmorgan chase's suppliers, counterparties and other third parties. ensuring that jpmorgan chase's collection, use, transfer and storage of personal information comply with all applicable laws and regulations in all relevant jurisdictions, including where the laws of different jurisdictions are in conflict, can: increase jpmorgan chase's operating costs affect the development of new products or services demand significant oversight by jpmorgan chase's management, and require jpmorgan chase to structure its businesses, operations and systems in less efficient ways. furthermore, jpmorgan chase cannot ensure that all of its clients and customers, suppliers, counterparties and other third parties have appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the information exchanged between them and jpmorgan chase, particularly where information is transmitted by electronic means. jpmorgan chase could be exposed to litigation or regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions if personal, confidential or proprietary information of clients, customers, employees or others were to be mishandled or misused, such as situations where such information is: erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the information, or intercepted or otherwise compromised by third parties. concerns regarding the effectiveness of jpmorgan chase's measures to safeguard personal information, or even the perception that those measures are inadequate, could cause jpmorgan chase to lose existing or potential clients and customers, and thereby reduce jpmorgan chase's revenues. furthermore, any failure or perceived failure by jpmorgan chase to comply with applicable privacy or data protection laws and regulations may subject it to inquiries, examinations and investigations that could result in requirements to modify or cease certain operations or practices, significant liabilities or regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions. any of these could damage jpmorgan chase's reputation and otherwise adversely affect its businesses. jpmorgan chase's operations and results could be vulnerable to catastrophes or other events that disrupt its business. jpmorgan chase's business and operational systems could be seriously disrupted by events that are wholly or partially beyond its control, including: cyberbreaches or breaches of physical premises electrical or telecommunications outages failures of, or loss of access to, operational systems, including computer systems, servers, networks and other technology assets damage to or loss of property or assets natural disasters or severe weather conditions health emergencies or pandemics, or events arising from local or larger-scale political events, including outbreaks of hostilities or terrorist acts. jpmorgan chase maintains a global resiliency and crisis management program that is intended to ensure the ability to recover critical business functions and supporting assets, including staff, technology and facilities, in the event of a business interruption. there can be no assurance that jpmorgan chase's resiliency plans will fully mitigate all potential business continuity risks to jpmorgan chase or its clients and customers. any significant failure or disruption of jpmorgan chase's operations or operational systems could, among other things: hinder its ability to provide services to its clients and customers require it to expend significant resources to correct the failure or disruption cause it to incur financial losses, both from loss of revenue and damage to or loss of property, and expose it to litigation or regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions. a successful cyberattack against jpmorgan chase could cause significant harm to jpmorgan chase or its clients and customers. jpmorgan chase experiences numerous cyberattacks on its computer systems, software, networks and other technology assets on a daily basis. these cyberattacks can 18 take many forms, but a common objective of many of these attacks is to introduce computer viruses or malware into jpmorgan chase's systems. these viruses or malicious code are typically designed to, among other things: obtain unauthorized access to confidential information belonging to jpmorgan chase or its clients and customers manipulate or destroy data disrupt, sabotage or degrade service on jpmorgan chase's systems, or steal money. jpmorgan chase has also been the target of significant distributed denial-of-service attacks which are intended to disrupt online banking services. jpmorgan chase devotes significant resources to maintain and regularly upgrade its systems to protect them against cyberattacks. however, jpmorgan chase has experienced security breaches due to cyberattacks in the past, and it is inevitable that additional breaches will occur in the future. any such breach could result in serious and harmful consequences for jpmorgan chase or its clients and customers. a principal reason that jpmorgan chase cannot provide absolute security against cyberattacks is that it may not always be possible to anticipate, detect or recognize threats to jpmorgan chase's systems, or to implement effective preventive measures against all breaches. this is because, among other things: the techniques used in cyberattacks change frequently and may not be recognized until launched cyberattacks can originate from a wide variety of sources, including third parties who are or may be involved in organized crime or linked to terrorist organizations or hostile foreign governments, and third parties may seek to gain access to jpmorgan chase's systems either directly or using equipment or security passwords belonging to employees, customers, third-party service providers or other users of jpmorgan chase's systems. the risk of a security breach due to a cyberattack could increase in the future as jpmorgan chase continues to expand its mobile-payment and other internet-based product offerings and its internal use of web-based products and applications. a successful penetration or circumvention of the security of jpmorgan chase's systems or the systems of a supplier, governmental body or another market participant could cause serious negative consequences, including: significant disruption of jpmorgan chase's operations and those of its clients, customers and counterparties, including losing access to operational systems misappropriation of confidential information of jpmorgan chase or that of its clients, customers, counterparties or employees damage to computers or systems of jpmorgan chase and those of its clients, customers and counterparties inability to fully recover and restore data that has been stolen, manipulated or destroyed, or to prevent systems from processing fraudulent transactions violations by jpmorgan chase of applicable privacy and other laws financial loss to jpmorgan chase or to its clients and customers loss of confidence in jpmorgan chase's cybersecurity measures client and customer dissatisfaction significant exposure to litigation and regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions, or harm to jpmorgan chase's reputation. jpmorgan chase could also suffer some of the above consequences if a third party were to misappropriate confidential information obtained by intercepting signals or communications from mobile devices used by jpmorgan chase's employees. jpmorgan chase may not be able to immediately address the consequences of a security breach due to a cyberattack. a successful breach of jpmorgan chase's computer systems, software, networks or other technology assets due to a cyberattack could occur and persist for an extended period of time before being detected due to, among other things: the breadth of jpmorgan chase's operations and the high volume of transactions that it processes the large number of customers, counterparties and third-party service providers with which jpmorgan chase does business the proliferation and increasing sophistication of cyberattacks, and the possibility that a third party, after establishing a foothold on an internal network without being detected, might obtain access to other networks and systems. the extent of a particular cyberattack and the steps that jpmorgan chase may need to take to investigate the attack may not be immediately clear, and it may take a significant amount of time before such an investigation can be completed and full and reliable information about the attack is known. while such an investigation is ongoing, jpmorgan chase may not necessarily know the extent of the harm or how best to remediate it, and certain errors or actions could be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and remediated, any or all of which could 19 part i further increase the costs and consequences of a cyberattack. jpmorgan chase's risk management framework and procedures may not be effective in identifying and mitigating every risk to jpmorgan chase. jpmorgan chase's risk management framework is intended to mitigate risk and loss. jpmorgan chase has established processes and procedures to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze the types of risk to which jpmorgan chase is subject. however, there are inherent limitations to risk management strategies because there may be existing or future risks that jpmorgan chase has not appropriately anticipated or identified. jpmorgan chase could be exposed to unexpected losses, and jpmorgan chase's financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, by any inadequacy or lapse in its risk management framework, governance structure, procedures and practices, models or reporting systems. an inadequacy or lapse could: require significant resources to remediate attract heightened regulatory scrutiny expose jpmorgan chase to regulatory investigations or legal proceedings subject it to litigation or regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions harm its reputation, or diminish confidence in jpmorgan chase. jpmorgan chase relies on data to assess its various risk exposures. any deficiencies in the quality or effectiveness of jpmorgan chase's data gathering and validation processes could result in ineffective risk management practices. these deficiencies could also result in inaccurate risk reporting. jpmorgan chase establishes allowances for probable credit losses that are inherent in its credit exposures. it then employs stress testing and other techniques to determine the capital and liquidity necessary in the event of adverse economic or market events. these processes are critical to jpmorgan chase's results of operations and financial condition. they require difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of how economic conditions might impair the ability of jpmorgan chase's borrowers and counterparties to repay their loans or other obligations. it is possible that jpmorgan chase will fail to identify the proper factors or that it will fail to accurately estimate the impact of factors that it identifies. many of jpmorgan chase's risk management strategies and techniques consider historical market behavior. these strategies and techniques are based to some degree on management's subjective judgment. for example, many models used by jpmorgan chase are based on assumptions regarding correlations among prices of various asset classes or other market indicators. in times of market stress, including difficult or less liquid market environments, or in the event of other unforeseen circumstances, previously uncorrelated indicators may become correlated. conversely, previously-correlated indicators may make unrelated movements at those times. sudden market movements and unanticipated or unidentified market or economic movements have, in some circumstances, limited the effectiveness of jpmorgan chase's risk management strategies, causing it to incur losses. jpmorgan chase could incur significant losses and face greater regulatory scrutiny if its models or estimations are inadequate. jpmorgan chase has developed and uses a variety of models and other analytical and judgment-based estimations to assess and implement mitigating controls over its market, credit, operational and other risks. these models and estimations are based on a variety of assumptions and historical trends, and are periodically reviewed and modified as necessary. the models and estimations that jpmorgan chase uses may not be effective in all cases to observe and mitigate risk due to a variety of factors, such as: reliance on historical trends that may not accurately predict future events, including assumptions underlying the models and estimations which predict correlation among certain market indicators or asset prices inherent limitations associated with forecasting uncertain economic and financial outcomes historical trend information may be incomplete, or may not anticipate severely negative market conditions such as extreme volatility, dislocation or lack of liquidity technology that is introduced to run models or estimations may not perform as expected, or may not be well understood by the personnel using the technology models and estimations may contain erroneous data, valuations, formulas or algorithms, and review processes may fail to detect flaws in models and estimations. jpmorgan chase could incur substantial losses, its capital levels could be reduced and it could face greater regulatory scrutiny if its models or estimations prove to be inadequate. some of the models and other analytical and judgment-based estimations used by jpmorgan chase in managing risks are subject to review by, and require the approval of, jpmorgan chase's regulators. these reviews are required before jpmorgan chase may use those models and estimations in connection with calculating market risk rwa, credit risk rwa and operational risk rwa under basel iii. if jpmorgan chase's models or estimations are not approved by its regulators, it may be subject to higher capital charges, which could adversely affect its financial results or limit the ability to expand its businesses. jpmorgan chase's capital actions could also be constrained if a ccar submission is not approved by its banking regulators due to the perceived inadequacy of its models or estimations. 20 enhanced standards for vendor risk management can result in higher costs and other potential exposures. jpmorgan chase must comply with enhanced standards for the assessment and management of risks associated with doing business with vendors and other third-party service providers. these requirements are contained both in bank regulatory regulations and guidance and in certain consent orders to which jpmorgan chase has been subject. jpmorgan chase incurs significant costs and expenses in connection with its initiatives to address the risks associated with oversight of its third party relationships. jpmorgan chase's failure to appropriately assess and manage third-party relationships, especially those involving significant banking functions, shared services or other critical activities, could materially adversely affect jpmorgan chase. specifically, any such failure could subject jpmorgan chase to: potential liability to clients and customers regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions increased operational costs, or harm to its reputation. requirements for physical settlement and delivery in trading agreements could expose jpmorgan chase to operational and other risks. certain of jpmorgan chase's markets transactions require the physical settlement by delivery of securities or other obligations that jpmorgan chase does not own. if jpmorgan chase is unable to obtain the obligations within the required timeframe, jpmorgan chase could forfeit payments otherwise due. failures could also result in settlement delays, which could damage jpmorgan chase's reputation and ability to transact business. failure to timely settle and confirm transactions could also subject jpmorgan chase to heightened credit and operational risk, and in the event of a default, market and operational losses. jpmorgan chase could incur unexpected losses if estimates and judgments underlying its financial statements are incorrect. under u.s. generally accepted accounting principles ( u.s. gaap ), jpmorgan chase is required to use estimates and apply judgments in preparing its financial statements, including in determining allowances for credit losses and reserves related to litigation, among other items. certain financial instruments require a determination of their fair value in order to prepare jpmorgan chase's financial statements, including: trading assets and liabilities instruments in the investment securities portfolio certain loans msrs structured notes, and certain repurchase and resale agreements. where quoted market prices are not available for these types of instruments, jpmorgan chase may make fair value determinations based on internally developed models or other means which ultimately rely to some degree on management estimates and judgment. sudden illiquidity in markets or declines in prices of certain loans and securities may make it more difficult to value certain balance sheet items, which could lead to valuations being subsequently changed or adjusted. if estimates or judgments underlying jpmorgan chase's financial statements prove to have been incorrect, jpmorgan chase may experience material losses. lapses in controls over disclosure or financial reporting could materially affect jpmorgan chase's profitability or reputation. there can be no assurance that jpmorgan chase's disclosure controls and procedures will be effective in every circumstance, or that a material weakness or significant deficiency in internal control over financial reporting will not occur. any such lapses or deficiencies could: materially and adversely affect jpmorgan chase's business and results of operations or financial condition restrict its ability to access the capital markets require it to expend significant resources to correct the lapses or deficiencies expose it to litigation or regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions harm its reputation, or otherwise diminish investor confidence in jpmorgan chase. strategic if jpmorgan chase's management fails to develop and execute effective business strategies, jpmorgan chase's competitive standing and results could suffer. jpmorgan chase's business strategies significantly affect its competitive standing and results of operations. these strategies relate to: the products and services that jpmorgan chase offers the geographies in which it operates the types of clients and customers that it serves the counterparties with which it does business, and the methods and distribution channels by which it offers products and services. the franchise values and growth prospects of jpmorgan chase's businesses, and its earnings and results of operations, may suffer and revenues could decline if management makes choices about these strategies and goals that: prove to be incorrect 21 part i do not accurately assess the competitive landscape and industry trends, or fail to address changing regulatory and market environments in the u.s. and abroad. jpmorgan chase's growth and prospects also depend on management's ability to develop and execute effective business plans to address these strategic priorities, both in the near term and over longer time horizons. management's effectiveness in this regard will affect jpmorgan chase's ability to develop and enhance its resources, control expenses and return capital to shareholders. each of these objectives could be adversely affected by management's failure to: devise effective business plans and strategies effectively implement business decisions, including by minimizing bureaucratic processes institute controls that appropriately address the risks associated with business activities and any changes in those activities offer products and services that meet the expectations of clients and customers, and in ways that enhance their satisfaction with those products and services allocate capital to jpmorgan chase's businesses in a manner that promotes their long-term profitability adequately respond to regulatory requirements appropriately address shareholder concerns react quickly to changes in market conditions or market structures, or develop and enhance the operational, technology, risk, financial and managerial resources necessary to grow and manage jpmorgan chase's businesses. additionally, jpmorgan chase's board of directors plays an important role in exercising appropriate oversight of management's strategic decisions, and a failure by the board to perform this function could also impair jpmorgan chase's results of operations. conduct misconduct by jpmorgan chase employees can harm its clients and customers, damage its reputation and trigger litigation and regulatory action. jpmorgan chase's employees interact with clients, customers and counterparties, and with each other, every day. all employees are expected to demonstrate values and exhibit the culture and behaviors that are an integral part of jpmorgan chase's how we do business principles, including jpmorgan chase's commitment to do first class business in a first class way. jpmorgan chase endeavors to embed culture and conduct risk management throughout an employee's life cycle, including recruiting, onboarding, training and development, and performance management. culture and conduct risk management are also important to jpmorgan chase's promotion and compensation processes. notwithstanding these expectations, policies and practices, certain employees have in the past engaged in improper or illegal conduct resulting in litigation as well as settlements involving consent orders, deferred prosecution agreements and non-prosecution agreements, as well as other civil and criminal settlements with regulators and other governmental entities. there is no assurance that further inappropriate actions by employees will not occur or that any such actions will always be deterred or quickly prevented. jpmorgan chase's reputation could be harmed, and collateral consequences could result, from a failure by one or more employees to act consistently with jpmorgan chase's expectations, including by acting in ways that harm clients, customers, other market participants or other employees. some examples of this include: improperly selling and marketing jpmorgan chase's products or services engaging in insider trading, market manipulation or unauthorized trading facilitating illegal or aggressive tax-motivated transactions, or transactions designed to circumvent economic sanction programs failing to fulfill fiduciary obligations or other duties owed to clients or customers violating anti-trust or anti-competition laws by colluding with other market participants to manipulate markets, prices or indices making risk decisions in ways that subordinate jpmorgan chase's risk appetite to employee compensation objectives, and misappropriating property or confidential or proprietary information or technology belonging to jpmorgan chase, its clients and customers or third parties. the consequences of any failure by employees to act consistently with jpmorgan chase's expectations could include litigation, or regulatory or other governmental investigations or enforcement actions. any of these proceedings or actions could result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other sanctions, or lead to: financial losses increased operational and compliance costs greater regulatory scrutiny requirements that jpmorgan chase restructure, curtail or cease certain of its activities the need for significant oversight by jpmorgan chase's management the undermining of jpmorgan chase's culture 22 loss of clients or customers, and harm to jpmorgan chase's reputation. reputation damage to jpmorgan chase's reputation could harm its businesses. maintaining trust in jpmorgan chase is critical to its ability to attract and retain clients, customers, investors and employees. damage to jpmorgan chase's reputation can therefore cause significant harm to jpmorgan chase's business and prospects. harm to jpmorgan chase's reputation can arise from numerous sources, including: employee misconduct security breaches compliance failures litigation or regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions, or regulatory investigations, enforcement actions or settlements. jpmorgan chase's reputation could also be harmed by the failure or perceived failure of certain third parties to comply with laws or regulations, including companies in which jpmorgan chase has made principal investments, parties to joint ventures with jpmorgan chase, and vendors and other third parties with which jpmorgan chase does business. jpmorgan chase's reputation or prospects may be significantly damaged by adverse publicity or negative information regarding jpmorgan chase, whether or not true, that may be posted on social media, non-mainstream news services or other parts of the internet, and this risk can be magnified by the speed and pervasiveness with which information is disseminated through those channels. actions by the financial services industry generally or by certain members of or individuals in the industry can also affect jpmorgan chase's reputation. for example, concerns that consumers have been treated unfairly by a financial institution, or that a financial institution has acted inappropriately with respect to the methods used to offer products to customers, can damage the reputation of the industry as a whole. if jpmorgan chase is perceived to have engaged in these types of behaviors, the measures needed to address the associated reputational issues could increase jpmorgan chase's operational and compliance costs and negatively affect its earnings. furthermore, events that undermine jpmorgan chase's reputation can hinder its ability to attract and retain clients, customers, investors and employees. failure to effectively manage potential conflicts of interest can result in litigation and enforcement actions, as well as damage jpmorgan chase's reputation. jpmorgan chase's ability to manage potential conflicts of interest has become increasingly complex as its business activities encompass more transactions, obligations and interests with and among jpmorgan chase's clients and customers. jpmorgan chase can become subject to litigation and enforcement actions, and its reputation can be damaged, by the failure or perceived failure to, among other things: adequately address or appropriately disclose conflicts of interest deliver appropriate standards of service and quality treat clients and customers fairly use client and customer data responsibly and in a manner that meets legal requirements and regulatory expectations provide fiduciary products or services in accordance with the applicable legal and regulatory standards, or handle or use confidential information of customers or clients appropriately or in compliance with applicable data protection and privacy laws and regulations. in the future, a failure or perceived failure to appropriately address conflicts or fiduciary obligations could result in customer dissatisfaction, litigation and regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions, and heightened regulatory scrutiny and enforcement actions, all of which can lead to lost revenue and higher operating costs and cause serious harm to jpmorgan chase's reputation. country jpmorgan chase can incur losses due to unfavorable economic developments around the world. jpmorgan chase's businesses and earnings are affected by the monetary, fiscal and other policies adopted by various u.s. and non-u.s. regulatory authorities and agencies. for example, the federal reserve regulates the supply of money and credit in the u.s. and its policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing in the u.s. and the return earned on those loans and investments. changes in fiscal policies by central banks or regulatory authorities, and the manner in which those policies are executed, are beyond jpmorgan chase's control and may be difficult to predict. consequently, unanticipated changes in these policies or the ways in which they are implemented could have a negative impact on jpmorgan chase's businesses and results of operations. jpmorgan chase's businesses and revenues are also subject to the risks inherent in investing and market-making in securities, loans and other obligations of companies worldwide. these risks include, among others: negative effects from slowing growth rates or recessionary economic conditions the risk of loss from unfavorable political, legal or other developments, including social or political instability, in the countries or regions in which those companies operate, and the other risks and considerations discussed below. 23 part i adverse economic and political developments in a country or region can have a wider negative impact on jpmorgan chase's businesses. some countries or regions in which jpmorgan chase operates or invests, or in which jpmorgan chase may do business in the future, have in the past experienced severe economic disruptions particular to those countries or regions. in some cases, concerns regarding the fiscal condition of one or more countries can cause a contraction of available credit and reduced commercial activity among trading partners within the affected countries or region. these developments can also create market volatility which can lead to a contagion affecting other countries in the same region or beyond. furthermore, governments in particular countries or regions in which jpmorgan chase or its clients do business may choose to adopt protectionist economic or trade policies in response to concerns about domestic economic conditions. any or all of these developments could lead to diminished cross-border trade and financing activity within that country or region, all of which could negatively affect jpmorgan chase's business and earnings in those jurisdictions. if jpmorgan chase takes steps to reduce its market and credit risk exposure within a particular country or region that is experiencing economic or political disruption, it may incur losses that are higher than expected because it will be disposing of assets when market conditions are likely to be highly unfavorable. jpmorgan chase's business activities with governmental entities pose a greater risk of loss. several of jpmorgan chase's businesses engage in transactions with, or trade in obligations of, governmental entities, including national, state, provincial, municipal and local authorities, both within and outside the u.s. these activities can expose jpmorgan chase to enhanced sovereign, credit-related, operational and reputation risks, including the risks that a governmental entity may: default on or restructure its obligations claim that actions taken by government officials were beyond the legal authority of those officials, or repudiate transactions authorized by a previous incumbent government. any or all of these actions could adversely affect jpmorgan chase's financial condition and results of operations and could hurt its reputation, particularly if jpmorgan chase pursues claims against a government obligor in a jurisdiction in which it has significant business relationships with clients or customers. jpmorgan chase's business and revenues in emerging markets can be hampered by local political, social and economic factors. some of the countries in which jpmorgan chase conducts business have economies or markets that are less developed and more volatile, and may have legal and regulatory regimes that are less established or predictable, than the u.s. and other developed markets in which jpmorgan chase operates. some of these countries have in the past experienced severe economic disruptions, including: extreme currency fluctuations high inflation low or negative growth, or defaults or potential defaults on sovereign debt. the governments in these countries have sometimes reacted to these developments by imposing restrictive monetary policies such as currency exchange controls and other laws and restrictions that adversely affect the local and regional business environment. in addition, these countries, as well as certain more developed countries, have been susceptible to unfavorable social developments arising from poor economic conditions and related governmental actions, including: social unrest general strikes and demonstrations crime and corruption security and personal safety issues outbreaks of hostilities overthrow of incumbent governments terrorist attacks, or other forms of internal discord. these economic, political and social developments have in the past resulted in, and in the future could lead to, conditions that can adversely affect jpmorgan chase's operations in those countries and impair the revenues, growth and profitability of those operations. if the legal and regulatory system in a particular country is less established or predictable, this can create a more difficult environment in which to conduct business. for example, any of the following could hamper jpmorgan chase's operations and reduce its earnings in countries with less established or predictable legal and regulatory regimes: the absence of a statutory or regulatory basis or guidance for engaging in specific types of business or transactions the adoption of conflicting or ambiguous laws and regulations, or the inconsistent application or interpretation of existing laws and regulations uncertainty concerning the enforceability of contractual obligations difficulty in competing in economies in which the government controls or protects all or a portion of the local economy or specific businesses, or where graft or corruption may be pervasive, and 24 the threat of arbitrary regulatory investigations, civil litigations or criminal prosecutions, the termination of licenses required to operate in the local market or the suspension of business relationships with governmental bodies. jpmorgan chase's operations in or involving emerging markets countries can also be affected by governmental actions such as: monetary policies expropriation, nationalization or confiscation of assets price, capital or exchange controls, and changes in laws and regulations. the impact of these actions could be accentuated in trading markets that are smaller, less liquid and more volatile than more-developed markets. these types of government actions can negatively affect jpmorgan chase's operations in the relevant country, either directly or by suppressing the business activities of local clients or multi-national clients that conduct business in the jurisdiction. for example, some or all of these governmental actions can result in funds belonging to jpmorgan chase, or that it places with a local custodian on behalf of a client, being effectively trapped in a country. in addition to the ultimate risk of losing the funds entirely, jpmorgan chase could be exposed for an extended period of time to the credit risk of a local custodian that is now operating in a deteriorating domestic economy. jpmorgan chase's revenues from international operations and trading in non-u.s. securities and other obligations can be negatively affected by the foregoing economic, political and social conditions in a particular country in which it does business. in addition, any of the above-mentioned events or circumstances in one country can affect jpmorgan chase's operations and investments in another country or countries, including in the u.s. jpmorgan chase's operations in the emerging markets can subject it to higher operational and compliance costs. conducting business in countries with less-developed legal and regulatory regimes often requires jpmorgan chase to devote significant additional resources to understanding, and monitoring changes in, local laws and regulations, as well as structuring its operations to comply with local laws and regulations and implementing and administering related internal policies and procedures. there can be no assurance that jpmorgan chase will always be successful in its efforts to conduct its business in compliance with laws and regulations in countries with less predictable legal and regulatory systems or that jpmorgan chase will be able to develop effective working relationships with local regulators. complying with economic sanctions and anti-corruption and anti-money laundering laws and regulations can increase jpmorgan chase's operational and compliance costs and risks. jpmorgan chase must comply with economic sanctions and embargo programs administered by ofac and similar national and multi-national bodies and governmental agencies outside the u.s., as well as anti-corruption and anti-money laundering laws and regulations throughout the world. jpmorgan chase can incur higher costs and face greater compliance risks in structuring and operating its businesses to comply with these requirements. furthermore, a violation of a sanction or embargo program or anti-corruption or anti-money laundering laws and regulations could subject jpmorgan chase, and individual employees, to regulatory enforcement actions as well as significant civil and criminal penalties. competition the financial services industry is highly competitive, and jpmorgan chase's results of operations will suffer if it is not a strong and effective competitor. jpmorgan chase operates in a highly competitive environment, and expects that competition in the u.s. and global financial services industry will continue to be intense. competitors include: other banks and financial institutions trading, advisory and investment management firms finance companies and technology companies, and other firms that are engaged in providing similar products and services. jpmorgan chase cannot provide assurance that the significant competition in the financial services industry will not materially and adversely affect its future results of operations. new competitors have emerged. for example, technological advances and the growth of e-commerce have made it possible for non-depository institutions to offer products and services that traditionally were banking products. these advances have also allowed financial institutions and other companies to provide electronic and internet-based financial solutions, including electronic securities trading, payment processing and online automated algorithmic-based investment advice. furthermore, both financial institutions and their non-banking competitors face the risk that payment processing and other services could be disrupted by technologies, such as cryptocurrencies, that require no intermediation. new technologies have required and could require jpmorgan chase to spend more to modify or adapt its products to attract and retain clients and customers or to match products and services offered by its competitors, including technology companies. ongoing or increased competition may put downward pressure on prices and fees for jpmorgan chase's products and services or may cause jpmorgan chase to lose market share. this competition may be on the basis of, among other factors, quality and variety of products and services offered, transaction execution, innovation, reputation and price. the failure of any of jpmorgan chase's businesses to 25 part i meet the expectations of clients and customers, whether due to general market conditions or underperformance, could affect jpmorgan chase's ability to attract or retain clients and customers. any such impact could, in turn, reduce jpmorgan chase's revenues. increased competition also may require jpmorgan chase to make additional capital investments in its businesses, or to extend more of its capital on behalf of its clients in order to remain competitive. non-u.s. competitors of jpmorgan chase's wholesale businesses outside the u.s. are typically subject to different, and in some cases, less stringent, legislative and regulatory regimes. the more restrictive laws and regulations applicable to jpmorgan chase and other u.s. financial services institutions can put jpmorgan chase and those firms at a competitive disadvantage to non-u.s. competitors. this could reduce the revenue and profitability of jpmorgan chase's wholesale businesses, resulting from: prohibitions on engaging in certain transactions higher capital and liquidity requirements making jpmorgan chase's pricing of certain transactions more expensive for clients, and adversely affecting jpmorgan chase's cost structure for providing certain products. people jpmorgan chase's ability to attract and retain qualified employees is critical to its success. jpmorgan chase's employees are its most important resource, and in many areas of the financial services industry, competition for qualified personnel is intense. jpmorgan chase endeavors to attract talented and diverse new employees and retain and motivate its existing employees. if jpmorgan chase were unable to continue to attract or retain qualified employees, including successors to the chief executive officer or members of the operating committee, jpmorgan chase's performance, including its competitive position, could be materially and adversely affected. changes in immigration policies could adversely affect jpmorgan chase. there is the potential for changes in immigration policies in multiple jurisdictions around the world, including in the u.s. if immigration policies were to unduly restrict or otherwise make it more difficult for qualified employees to work in, or transfer among, jurisdictions in which jpmorgan chase has operations or conducts its business, jpmorgan chase could be adversely affected. legal jpmorgan chase faces significant legal risks from private actions and formal and informal regulatory investigations. jpmorgan chase is named as a defendant or is otherwise involved in various legal proceedings, including class actions and other litigation or disputes with third parties. actions currently pending against jpmorgan chase may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other results adverse to jpmorgan chase. any of these matters could materially and adversely affect jpmorgan chase's business, financial condition or results of operations, or cause serious reputational harm. as a participant in the financial services industry, it is likely that jpmorgan chase will continue to experience a high level of litigation related to its businesses and operations. regulators and other government agencies conduct examinations of jpmorgan chase and its subsidiaries both on a routine basis and in targeted exams, and jpmorgan chase's businesses and operations are subject to heightened regulatory oversight. this heightened regulatory scrutiny, or the results of such an investigation or examination, may lead to additional regulatory investigations or enforcement actions. there is no assurance that those actions will not result in regulatory settlements or other enforcement actions against jpmorgan chase. furthermore, a single event involving a potential violation of law or regulation may give rise to numerous and overlapping investigations and proceedings, either by multiple federal and state agencies and officials in the u.s. or, in some instances, regulators and other governmental officials in non-u.s. jurisdictions. if another financial institution violates a law or regulation relating to a particular business activity or practice, this will often give rise to an investigation by regulators and other governmental agencies of the same or similar activity or practice by jpmorgan chase. these and other initiatives by u.s. and non-u.s. governmental authorities may subject jpmorgan chase to judgments, settlements, fines or penalties, or require jpmorgan chase to restructure its operations and activities or to cease offering certain products or services. all of these potential outcomes could harm jpmorgan chase's reputation or lead to higher operational costs, thereby reducing jpmorgan chase's profitability, or result in collateral consequences. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 28 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. for a discussion of the quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, see the market risk management section of management's discussion and analysis on pages 121-128 .risk factors. 7 28 risk factors. the following discussion sets forth the material risk factors that could affect jpmorgan chase's financial condition and operations. readers should not consider any descriptions of these factors to be a complete set of all potential risks that could affect the firm. any of the risk factors discussed below could by itself, or combined with other factors, materially and adversely affect jpmorgan chase's business, results of operations, financial condition, capital position, liquidity, competitive position or reputation, including by materially increasing expenses or decreasing revenues, which could result in material losses or a decrease in earnings. regulatory jpmorgan chase's businesses are highly regulated, and the laws and regulations that apply to jpmorgan chase have a significant impact on its business and operations. jpmorgan chase is a financial services firm with operations worldwide. jpmorgan chase must comply with the laws and regulations that apply to its operations in all of the jurisdictions around the world in which it does business. the regulation of financial services is extensive and comprehensive. jpmorgan chase has experienced an extended period of significant change in laws and regulations affecting the financial services industry, both within and outside the u.s. the supervision of financial services firms also expanded significantly during this period. the wave of increased regulation and supervision of jpmorgan chase has affected the way that it conducts its business and structures its operations. existing and new laws and regulations and expanded supervision could require jpmorgan chase to make further changes to its business and operations. these changes could result in jpmorgan chase incurring additional costs for complying with laws and regulations and could reduce jpmorgan chase's profitability. more specifically, existing and new laws and regulations could require jpmorgan chase to: limit the products and services that it offers reduce the liquidity that it can provide through its market-making activities stop or discourage it from engaging in business opportunities that it might otherwise pursue recognize losses in the value of assets that it holds pay higher assessments, levies or other governmental charges dispose of certain assets, and do so at times or prices that are disadvantageous impose restrictions on certain business activities, or increase the prices that it charges for products and services, which could reduce the demand for them. differences in financial services regulation can be disadvantageous for jpmorgan chase's business. the content and application of laws and regulations affecting financial services firms sometimes vary according to factors such as the size of the firm, the jurisdiction in which it is organized or operates, and other criteria. for example: larger firms are often subject to more stringent supervision and regulation financial technology companies and other non-traditional competitors may not be subject to banking regulation, or may be supervised by a national or state regulatory agency that does not have the same resources or regulatory priorities as the regulatory agencies which supervise more diversified financial services firms, or the financial services regulatory framework in a particular jurisdiction may favor financial institutions that are based in that jurisdiction. these types of differences in the regulatory framework can result in a firm such as jpmorgan chase losing market share to competitors that are less regulated or not subject to regulation, especially with respect to unregulated financial products. there can also be significant differences in the ways that similar regulatory initiatives affecting the financial services industry are implemented in the u.s. and in other countries and regions in which jpmorgan chase does business. for example, when adopting rules that are intended to implement a global regulatory initiative or standard, a national regulator may introduce additional or more restrictive requirements, which can create competitive disadvantages for financial services firms, such as jpmorgan chase, that may be subject to those enhanced regulations. legislative and regulatory initiatives outside the u.s. could require jpmorgan chase to make significant modifications to its operations and legal entity structure in the relevant countries or regions in order to comply with those requirements. these include laws and regulations that have been adopted or proposed relating to: the resolution of financial institutions the establishment of locally-based intermediate holding companies the separation (or ring fencing ) of core banking products and services from markets activities requirements for executing or settling transactions on exchanges or through central counterparties ( ccps ) position limits and reporting rules for derivatives governance and accountability regimes conduct of business requirements, and restrictions on compensation. 7 part i these types of differences in financial services regulation, or inconsistencies or conflicts between laws and regulations between different jurisdictions, could require jpmorgan chase to: divest assets or restructure its operations absorb increased operational, capital and liquidity costs change the prices that it charges for its products and services curtail the products and services that it offers to its customers and clients, or incur higher costs for complying with different legal and regulatory frameworks. any or all of these factors could harm jpmorgan chase's ability to compete against other firms that are not subject to the same laws and regulations or supervisory oversight, or harm jpmorgan chase's businesses, results of operations and profitability. governments in some countries or regions in which jpmorgan chase does business have adopted laws or regulations which require jpmorgan chase subsidiaries that operate in those jurisdictions to maintain minimum amounts of capital or liquidity on a stand-alone basis. some regulators outside the u.s. have also proposed that large banks which conduct certain businesses in their jurisdictions operate through separate subsidiaries located in those jurisdictions. these requirements, and any future laws or regulations that impose restrictions on the way jpmorgan chase organizes its businesses or increase the capital or liquidity requirements that would apply to jpmorgan chase subsidiaries, could hinder jpmorgan chase's ability to efficiently manage its operations, increase its funding and liquidity costs, and result in lower profitability. heightened regulatory scrutiny of jpmorgan chase's businesses has increased its compliance costs and could result in restrictions on its operations. jpmorgan chase's operations are subject to heightened oversight and scrutiny from regulatory authorities in many jurisdictions where jpmorgan chase does business. jpmorgan chase has paid significant fines, provided other monetary relief, incurred other penalties and experienced other repercussions in connection with resolving several investigations and enforcement actions by governmental agencies. jpmorgan chase could become subject to similar regulatory resolutions or other actions in the future, and addressing the requirements of any such resolutions or actions could result in jpmorgan chase incurring higher operational and compliance costs or needing to comply with other restrictions. in connection with resolving specific regulatory investigations or enforcement actions, certain regulators have required jpmorgan chase and other financial institutions to admit wrongdoing with respect to the activities that gave rise to the resolution. these types of admissions can lead to: greater exposure in civil litigation damage to reputation disqualification from doing business with certain clients or customers, or in specific jurisdictions, or other direct and indirect adverse effects. furthermore, u.s. government officials have demonstrated a willingness to bring criminal actions against financial institutions and have demanded that institutions plead guilty to criminal offenses or admit other wrongdoing in connection with resolving regulatory investigations or enforcement actions. resolutions of this type can have significant collateral consequences for the subject financial institution, including: loss of clients, customers and business restrictions on offering certain products or services, and losing permission to operate certain businesses, either temporarily or permanently. jpmorgan chase expects that it and other financial services firms will continue to be subject to heightened regulatory scrutiny and governmental investigations and enforcement actions. jpmorgan chase also expects that regulators will continue to insist that financial institutions be penalized for actual or deemed violations of law with formal and punitive enforcement actions, including the imposition of significant monetary and other sanctions, rather than resolving these matters through informal supervisory actions. furthermore, if jpmorgan chase fails to meet the requirements of any resolution of a governmental investigation or enforcement action, or to maintain risk and control processes that meet the heightened standards established by its regulators, it could be required to: enter into further resolutions pay additional regulatory fines, penalties or judgments, or accept material regulatory restrictions on, or changes in the management of, its businesses. in these circumstances, jpmorgan chase could also become subject to other sanctions, or to prosecution or civil litigation with respect to the conduct that gave rise to an investigation or enforcement action. the long-term impact of u.s. tax reform legislation is uncertain, and may be affected by regulatory implementation. the long-term impact of the tax cuts &amp; jobs acts ( tcja ) on jpmorgan chase and the u.s. economy remains uncertain. while the enactment of the tcja has had, and should continue to have, a positive impact on jpmorgan chase's net income, the competitive environment and other 8 factors will influence the extent to which these benefits are retained by jpmorgan chase over the longer term, and the specific impact on jpmorgan chase's businesses, products and geographies may vary. in addition, the treasury regulations governing certain tcja provisions have not been finalized and their ultimate impact on jpmorgan chase is uncertain. complying with economic sanctions and anti-corruption and anti-money laundering laws and regulations can increase jpmorgan chase's operational and compliance costs and risks. jpmorgan chase must comply with economic sanctions and embargo programs administered by the office of foreign assets control ( ofac ) and similar national and multi-national bodies and governmental agencies outside the u.s., as well as anti-corruption and anti-money laundering laws and regulations throughout the world. jpmorgan chase can incur higher costs and face greater compliance risks in structuring and operating its businesses to comply with these requirements. furthermore, a violation of a sanction or embargo program or anti-corruption or anti-money laundering laws and regulations could subject jpmorgan chase, and individual employees, to regulatory enforcement actions as well as significant civil and criminal penalties. jpmorgan chase's operations can be constrained in countries with less predictable legal and regulatory frameworks. if the legal and regulatory system in a particular country is less established or predictable, this can create a more difficult environment in which to conduct business. for example, any of the following could hamper jpmorgan chase's operations and reduce its earnings in countries with less established or predictable legal and regulatory regimes: the absence of a statutory or regulatory basis or guidance for engaging in specific types of business or transactions the adoption of conflicting or ambiguous laws and regulations, or the inconsistent application or interpretation of existing laws and regulations uncertainty concerning the enforceability of contractual obligations difficulty in competing in economies in which the government controls or protects all or a portion of the local economy or specific businesses, or where graft or corruption may be pervasive, and the threat of arbitrary regulatory investigations, civil litigations or criminal prosecutions, the termination of licenses required to operate in the local market or the suspension of business relationships with governmental bodies. conducting business in countries with less-developed legal and regulatory regimes often requires jpmorgan chase to devote significant additional resources to understanding, and monitoring changes in, local laws and regulations, as well as structuring its operations to comply with local laws and regulations and implementing and administering related internal policies and procedures. there can be no assurance that jpmorgan chase will always be successful in its efforts to conduct its business in compliance with laws and regulations in countries with less predictable legal and regulatory systems or that jpmorgan chase will be able to develop effective working relationships with local regulators. requirements for the orderly resolution of jpmorgan chase could result in jpmorgan chase having to restructure or reorganize its businesses. jpmorgan chase is required under federal reserve and fdic rules to prepare and submit periodically to those agencies a detailed plan for rapid and orderly resolution in bankruptcy, without extraordinary government support, in the event of material financial distress or failure. the agencies' evaluation of the firm's resolution plan may change, and the requirements for resolution plans may be modified from time to time. any such determinations or modifications could result in jpmorgan chase needing to make changes to its legal entity structure or to certain internal or external activities, which could increase its funding or operational costs. if the federal reserve and the fdic were to determine that a resolution plan submitted by jpmorgan chase has deficiencies, they could jointly impose more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements or restrictions on jpmorgan chase's growth, activities or operations. after two years, if the deficiencies are not cured, the agencies could also require that jpmorgan chase restructure, reorganize or divest assets or businesses in ways that could materially and adversely affect jpmorgan chase's operations and strategy. holders of jpmorgan chase &amp; co.'s debt and equity securities will absorb losses if it were to enter into a resolution. federal reserve rules require that jpmorgan chase &amp; co. (the parent company ) maintain minimum levels of unsecured external long-term debt and other loss-absorbing capacity with specific terms ( eligible ltd ) for purposes of recapitalizing jpmorgan chase's operating subsidiaries if the parent company were to enter into a resolution either: in a bankruptcy proceeding under chapter 11 of the u.s. bankruptcy code, or in a receivership administered by the fdic under title ii of the dodd-frank act ( title ii ). if the parent company were to enter into a resolution, holders of eligible ltd and other debt and equity securities of the parent company will absorb the losses of the parent company and its subsidiaries. 9 part i the preferred single point of entry strategy under jpmorgan chase's resolution plan contemplates that only the parent company would enter bankruptcy proceedings. jpmorgan chase's subsidiaries would be recapitalized, as needed, so that they could continue normal operations or subsequently be divested or wound down in an orderly manner. as a result, the parent company's losses and any losses incurred by its subsidiaries would be imposed first on holders of the parent company's equity securities and thereafter on its unsecured creditors, including holders of eligible ltd and other debt securities. claims of holders of those securities would have a junior position to the claims of creditors of jpmorgan chase's subsidiaries and to the claims of priority (as determined by statute) and secured creditors of the parent company. accordingly, in a resolution of the parent company in bankruptcy, holders of eligible ltd and other debt securities of the parent company would realize value only to the extent available to the parent company as a shareholder of jpmorgan chase bank, n.a. and its other subsidiaries, and only after any claims of priority and secured creditors of the parent company have been fully repaid. the fdic has similarly indicated that a single point of entry recapitalization model could be a desirable strategy to resolve a systemically important financial institution, such as the parent company, under title ii. however, the fdic has not formally adopted a single point of entry resolution strategy. if the parent company were to approach, or enter into, a resolution, none of the parent company, the federal reserve or the fdic is obligated to follow jpmorgan chase's preferred strategy, and losses to holders of eligible ltd and other debt and equity securities of the parent company, under whatever strategy is ultimately followed, could be greater than they might have been under jpmorgan chase's preferred strategy. political the expected departure of the u.k. from the eu could negatively affect jpmorgan chase's business, results of operations and operating model. it remains highly uncertain how the expected departure of the u.k. from the eu, which is commonly referred to as brexit, will affect financial services firms such as jpmorgan chase that conduct substantial operations in the eu from legal entities that are organized in or operating from the u.k. it is possible that the u.k. will depart from the eu in march 2019 without any agreement having been reached between the u.k. and the eu concerning whether or to what extent u.k.-based firms may conduct financial services activities within the eu. it is also possible that any agreement reached between the u.k. and the eu may, depending on the final outcome of the ongoing negotiations and related legislative developments: impede the ability of u.k.-based financial services firms to conduct business in the eu fail to address significant unresolved issues relating to the cross-border conduct of financial services activities, or apply only temporarily. jpmorgan chase has been making the necessary modifications to its legal entity structure and operations in the eu, the locations in which it operates and the staffing in those locations to address the expected departure of the u.k. from the eu, including the possibility that the u.k. may depart from the eu in march 2019 without a withdrawal agreement in place. if the u.k. departs from the eu with no withdrawal agreement having been reached, the types of structural and operational changes that jpmorgan chase is in the process of making to its european operations will result in jpmorgan chase having to sustain a more fragmented operating model across its u.k., eu and other operating entities. due to considerations such as operating expenses, liquidity, leverage and capital, the modified european operating framework will be more complex, less efficient and more costly than would otherwise have been the case. jpmorgan chase may experience these types of inefficiencies in its business and operations even if a withdrawal agreement is reached, for example in the event that during the transition period contemplated by such an agreement, the u.k. and the eu fail to reach further agreement on future trade relationships between the u.k. and the eu, or if any other outcome persists that does not assure ongoing access for u.k.-based financial services firms to the eu market. a disorderly departure of the u.k. from the eu, or the unexpected consequences of any departure, could have significant and immediate destabilizing effects on cross-border financial services activities, depending on circumstances that may exist following such a withdrawal, including: the possibility that clients and counterparties of financial institutions are not positioned to continue to do business through eu-based legal entities reduction or fragmentation of market liquidity that may be caused if trading venues or ccps currently based in the u.k. have not completed arrangements to conduct operations from the eu either immediately or, if authorized to continue to operate from the u.k. on a transitional basis, after any transitional relief has expired uncertainties concerning the application and interpretation of laws and regulations relating to cross-border financial services activities inability to engage in certain capital markets activities through eu-based legal entities to the extent that licenses or temporary permission to engage in such activities have not been granted timely by local regulators, and 10 lack of legal certainty concerning the treatment of existing transactions. any or all of the above factors could have an adverse effect on the overall operation of the european financial services market as well as jpmorgan chase's business, operations and earnings in the u.k., the eu and globally. economic uncertainty or instability caused by political developments can hurt jpmorgan chase's businesses. the economic environment and market conditions in which jpmorgan chase operates continue to be uncertain due to political developments in the u.s. and other countries. certain policy initiatives and proposals could cause a contraction in u.s. and global economic growth and higher volatility in the financial markets, including: inability to reach political consensus to keep the u.s. government open and funded isolationist foreign policies the introduction of tariffs and other protectionist trade policies, or the possible withdrawal or reduction of government support for the federal national mortgage association and the federal home loan mortgage corporation (together, the gses ). these types of political developments, and uncertainty about the possible outcomes of these developments, could: erode investor confidence in the u.s. economy and financial markets, which could potentially undermine the status of the u.s. dollar as a safe haven currency provoke retaliatory countermeasures by other countries and otherwise heighten tensions in diplomatic relations increase concerns about whether the u.s. government will be funded, and its outstanding debt serviced, at any particular time, and result in periodic shutdowns of the u.s. government or governments in other countries. these factors could lead to: greater market volatility large-scale sales of government debt and other debt and equity securities in the u.s. and other countries the widening of credit spreads inflationary pressures lower investment growth, and other market dislocations. any of these potential outcomes could cause jpmorgan chase to suffer losses on its market-making positions or in its investment securities portfolio, reduce its liquidity and capital levels, hamper its ability to deliver products and services to its clients and customers, and weaken its results of operations and financial condition. market jpmorgan chase's businesses are materially affected by economic and market events and conditions. jpmorgan chase's results of operations can be negatively affected by adverse changes in any of the following: investor, consumer and business sentiment events that reduce confidence in the financial markets inflation or deflation high unemployment or, conversely, a tightening labor market the availability and cost of capital and credit monetary and fiscal policies and actions taken by the federal reserve and other central banks or governmental authorities, including any suspension or reversal of large-scale asset purchases trade policies implemented by governmental authorities the economic effects of natural disasters, severe weather conditions, health emergencies or pandemics, cyberattacks, outbreaks of hostilities, terrorism or other geopolitical instabilities, and the health of the u.s. and global economies. jpmorgan chase's consumer businesses can be negatively affected by adverse economic conditions. jpmorgan chase's consumer businesses are particularly affected by u.s. and global economic conditions, including: interest rates the rates of inflation and unemployment housing prices the level of consumer and small business confidence changes in consumer spending or in the level of consumer debt, and the number of personal bankruptcies. a rapid increase in interest rates could negatively affect consumer credit performance to the extent that consumers are less able to service their debts. sustained low growth, inflationary pressures or recessionary conditions could diminish customer demand for the products and services offered by jpmorgan chase's consumer businesses. these conditions could also increase the cost to provide those products and services. adverse economic conditions could also lead to an increase in delinquencies and higher net charge-offs, which can reduce jpmorgan chase's earnings. these consequences could be significantly worse in certain geographies where high levels of unemployment have resulted from declining industrial or manufacturing activity, 11 part i or where high levels of consumer debt, such as outstanding student loans, impair the ability of customers to pay their other consumer loan obligations. jpmorgan chase's earnings from its consumer businesses could also be adversely affected by governmental policies and actions that affect consumers, including: policies and initiatives relating to medical insurance, education, immigration and employment status the inability to reach political consensus to keep the u.s. government open and funded, and policies aimed at the economy more broadly, such as infrastructure spending and global trade, which could result in higher inflation or reductions in consumer disposable income. in addition, governmental proposals to permit student loan obligations to be discharged in bankruptcy proceedings could, if enacted into law, encourage certain of jpmorgan chase's customers to declare personal bankruptcy and thereby trigger defaults and charge-offs of credit card and other consumer loans extended to those customers. unfavorable market and economic conditions can have an adverse effect on jpmorgan chase's wholesale businesses. in jpmorgan chase's wholesale businesses, market and economic factors can affect the volume of transactions that jpmorgan chase executes for its clients or for which it advises clients, and, therefore, the revenue that jpmorgan chase receives from those transactions. these factors can also influence the willingness of other financial institutions and investors to participate in capital markets transactions that jpmorgan chase manages, such as loan syndications or securities underwritings. furthermore, if a significant and sustained deterioration in market conditions were to occur, the profitability of jpmorgan chase's capital markets businesses could be reduced to the extent that those businesses: earn less fee revenue due to lower transaction volumes, including when clients are unwilling or unable to refinance their outstanding debt obligations in unfavorable market conditions dispose of portions of credit commitments, such as loan syndications or securities underwritings, at a loss, or hold larger residual positions in credit commitments that cannot be sold at favorable prices. an adverse change in market conditions in particular segments of the economy, such as a sudden and severe downturn in oil and gas prices or an increase in commodity prices, could have a material adverse effect on clients of jpmorgan chase whose operations or financial condition are directly or indirectly dependent on the health or stability of those market segments, as well as clients that are engaged in related businesses. jpmorgan chase could incur losses on its loans and other credit commitments to clients that operate in, or are dependent on, any sector of the economy that is under stress. the fees that jpmorgan chase earns from managing client assets or holding assets under custody for clients could be diminished by declining asset values or other adverse macroeconomic conditions. for example, higher interest rates or a downturn in financial markets could affect the valuations of client assets that jpmorgan chase manages or holds under custody, which, in turn, could affect jpmorgan chase's revenue from fees that are based on the amount of assets under management or custody. similarly, adverse macroeconomic or market conditions could prompt outflows from jpmorgan chase funds or accounts, or cause clients to invest in products that generate lower revenue. substantial and unexpected withdrawals from a jpmorgan chase fund can also hamper the investment performance of the fund, particularly if the outflows create the need for the fund to dispose of fund assets at disadvantageous times or prices, and could lead to further withdrawals based on the weaker investment performance. an economic downturn that results in lower consumer and business spending could also have a negative impact on certain of jpmorgan chase's wholesale clients, and thereby diminish jpmorgan chase's earnings from its wholesale operations. for example, the businesses of certain of jpmorgan chase's wholesale clients are dependent on consistent streams of rental income from commercial real estate properties which are owned or being built by those clients. severe and sustained adverse economic conditions could reduce the rental cash flows that owners or developers receive from those properties which, in turn, could depress the values of the properties and impair the ability of borrowers to service or refinance their commercial real estate loans. these consequences could result in jpmorgan chase experiencing higher delinquencies, defaults and write-offs within its commercial real estate loan portfolio and incurring higher costs for servicing a larger volume of delinquent loans in that portfolio, thereby reducing jpmorgan chase's earnings from its wholesale businesses. jpmorgan chase's investment securities portfolio and market-making positions can suffer losses due to adverse economic, market and political events and conditions. jpmorgan chase generally maintains positions in various fixed income instruments in its investment securities portfolio, and positions in various fixed income, currency, commodity, credit and equity instruments as part of its market-making activities. market-making positions are intended to facilitate demand from jpmorgan chase's clients for these instruments and to provide liquidity for clients. the value of the positions that jpmorgan chase holds can be significantly affected by factors such as: jpmorgan chase's ability to effectively hedge market and other risks on its positions changes in the levels and volatility of interest rates, credit spreads, and market prices for currencies, equities and commodities, and the duration of any changes in levels or volatility, and 12 the availability of liquidity in the capital markets. all of these are affected by global economic, market and political events and conditions, as well as regulatory restrictions on market-making activities. jpmorgan chase's investment securities portfolio and market-making businesses can also suffer losses due to unanticipated market events, including: severe declines in asset values unexpected credit events unforeseen events or conditions that may cause previously uncorrelated factors to become correlated (and vice versa), or other market risks that may not have been appropriately taken into account in the development, structuring or pricing of a financial instrument. if jpmorgan chase experiences significant losses in its investment securities portfolio or from market-making activities, this could reduce jpmorgan chase's profitability and its liquidity and capital levels, and thereby constrain the growth of its businesses. changes in interest rates and credit spreads can adversely affect certain of jpmorgan chase's revenue and income streams. jpmorgan chase can generally be expected to earn higher net interest income when interest rates are increasing. however, higher interest rates can also lead to: fewer originations of commercial and residential real estate loans losses on underwriting exposures lower returns on jpmorgan chase's investment securities portfolio the loss of deposits to the extent that jpmorgan chase makes incorrect assumptions about depositor behavior lower net interest income if central banks introduce interest rate increases more quickly than anticipated and this results in a misalignment in the pricing of short-term and long-term borrowings, and less liquidity in the financial markets and higher funding costs. all of these outcomes could adversely affect jpmorgan chase's revenues and its liquidity and capital levels. higher interest rates can also negatively affect the payment performance on loans within jpmorgan chase's consumer and wholesale loan portfolios that are linked to variable interest rates. if borrowers of variable rate loans are unable to afford higher interest payments, those borrowers may reduce or stop making payments, thereby causing jpmorgan chase to incur losses and increased operational costs related to servicing a higher volume of delinquent loans. on the other hand, a low interest rate environment may cause: net interest margins to be compressed, which could reduce the amounts that jpmorgan chase earns on its investment securities portfolio to the extent that it is unable to reinvest contemporaneously in higher-yielding instruments, and a reduction in the value of jpmorgan chase's mortgage servicing rights ( msrs ) asset, thereby decreasing revenues. when credit spreads widen, it becomes more expensive for jpmorgan chase to borrow. jpmorgan chase's credit spreads may widen or narrow not only in response to events and circumstances that are specific to jpmorgan chase but also as a result of general economic and geopolitical events and conditions. changes in jpmorgan chase's credit spreads will affect, positively or negatively, jpmorgan chase's earnings on certain liabilities, such as derivatives, that are recorded at fair value. jpmorgan chase's results may be materially affected by market fluctuations and significant changes in the value of financial instruments. the value of securities, derivatives and other financial instruments which jpmorgan chase owns or in which it makes markets can be materially affected by market fluctuations. market volatility, illiquid market conditions and other disruptions in the financial markets may make it extremely difficult to value certain financial instruments, particularly during periods of market displacement. subsequent valuations of financial instruments in future periods, in light of factors then prevailing, may result in significant changes in the value of these instruments. in addition, at the time of any disposition of these financial instruments, the price that jpmorgan chase ultimately realizes will depend on the demand and liquidity in the market at that time and may be materially lower than their current fair value. any of these factors could cause a decline in the value of financial instruments which jpmorgan chase owns or in which it makes markets, which may have an adverse effect on jpmorgan chase's results of operations. under extreme market conditions, hedging and other risk management strategies may not be as effective at mitigating losses as they would be under more normal market conditions. furthermore, under these conditions, market participants are particularly exposed to trading strategies employed by many market participants simultaneously and on a large scale. jpmorgan chase's risk management and monitoring processes seek to quantify and mitigate risk to more extreme market moves. however, severe market events have historically been difficult to predict and jpmorgan chase could realize significant losses if extreme market events were to occur. 13 part i credit jpmorgan chase can be adversely affected by the financial condition of clients, counterparties, custodians and ccps. jpmorgan chase routinely executes transactions with brokers and dealers, commercial and investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, investment managers and other types of financial institutions. many of these transactions expose jpmorgan chase to the credit risk of its clients and counterparties, and can involve jpmorgan chase in disputes and litigation in the event that a client or counterparty defaults. jpmorgan chase can also be subject to losses or liability where a financial institution that it has appointed to provide custodial services for client assets or funds becomes insolvent as a result of fraud or the failure to abide by existing laws and obligations, including under the eu alternative investment fund managers directive. a default by a ccp through which jpmorgan chase executes contracts would require jpmorgan chase to replace those contracts, thereby increasing its operational costs and potentially resulting in losses. jpmorgan chase can also be exposed to losses if a member of a ccp in which jpmorgan chase is also a member defaults on its obligations to the ccp because of requirements that each member of the ccp absorb a portion of those losses. disputes may arise with counterparties to derivatives contracts with regard to the terms, the settlement procedures or the value of underlying collateral. the disposition of those disputes could cause jpmorgan chase to incur unexpected transaction, operational and legal costs, or result in credit losses. these consequences can also impair jpmorgan chase's ability to effectively manage its credit risk exposure from its market activities, or cause harm to jpmorgan chase's reputation. jpmorgan chase's businesses can be harmed by the insolvency of a significant market participant. the failure of a significant market participant, such as a major financial institution or a ccp, or concerns about the creditworthiness of such a market participant, can have a cascading effect within the financial markets. jpmorgan chase's businesses could be significantly disrupted by such an event, particularly if it leads to other market participants incurring significant losses, experiencing liquidity issues or defaulting. these risks could be magnified in the event of the default, insolvency or resolution of a major global financial counterparty, as jpmorgan chase is likely to have significant interrelationships with, and credit exposure to, such a counterparty, and would seek to unwind or hedge positions in securities, derivatives and other obligations in multiple jurisdictions during a period of heightened market volatility. jpmorgan chase's clearing services business is exposed to the risk of client or counterparty default. as part of its clearing services activities, jpmorgan chase is a member of several ccps. in the event that another member of such an organization defaults on its obligations to the ccp, jpmorgan chase may be required to pay a portion of any losses incurred by the ccp as a result of that default. as a clearing member, jpmorgan chase is also exposed to the risk of nonperformance by its clients, which it seeks to mitigate by requiring clients to provide adequate collateral. jpmorgan chase is exposed to intra-day credit risk of its clients in connection with providing cash management, clearing, custodial and other transaction services to those clients. if a client for which jpmorgan chase provides these services becomes bankrupt or insolvent, jpmorgan chase may incur losses, become involved in disputes and litigation with one or more ccps, the client's bankruptcy estate and other creditors, or be subject to regulatory investigations. all of the foregoing events can increase jpmorgan chase's operational and litigation costs, and jpmorgan chase may suffer losses to the extent that any collateral that it has received is insufficient to cover those losses. jpmorgan chase can also be subject to bearing its share of nondefault losses incurred by a ccp due to a business or operational failure affecting the ccp, including due to a cyberattack, litigation, fraud or a systems failure. jpmorgan chase may suffer losses if the value of collateral declines in stressed market conditions. during periods of market stress or illiquidity, jpmorgan chase's credit risk may be further increased when jpmorgan chase cannot realize the fair value of the collateral held by it or when collateral is liquidated at prices that are not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan, derivative or other exposure due to it. furthermore, disputes with counterparties concerning the valuation of collateral may increase in times of significant market stress, volatility or illiquidity, and jpmorgan chase could suffer losses during these periods if it is unable to realize the fair value of collateral or to manage declines in the value of collateral. jpmorgan chase could incur significant losses arising from concentrations of credit and market risk. jpmorgan chase is exposed to greater credit and market risk to the extent that groupings of its clients or counterparties: engage in similar or related businesses, or in businesses in related industries do business in the same geographic region, or have business profiles, models or strategies that could cause their ability to meet their obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic conditions. for example, a significant deterioration in the credit quality of one of jpmorgan chase's borrowers or counterparties could lead to concerns about the creditworthiness of other 14 borrowers or counterparties in similar, related or dependent industries. this type of interrelationship could exacerbate jpmorgan chase's credit, liquidity and market risk exposure and potentially cause it to incur losses, including fair value losses in its market-making businesses. similarly, challenging economic conditions that affect a particular industry or geographic area could lead to concerns about the credit quality of jpmorgan chase's borrowers or counterparties not only in that particular industry or geography but in related or dependent industries, wherever located. these conditions could also heighten concerns about the ability of customers of jpmorgan chase's consumer businesses who live in those areas or work in those affected industries or related or dependent industries to meet their obligations to jpmorgan chase. jpmorgan chase regularly monitors various segments of its credit and market risk exposures to assess the potential risks of concentration or contagion, but its efforts to diversify or hedge its exposures against those risks may not be successful. jpmorgan chase's consumer businesses can also be harmed by an excessive expansion of consumer credit by bank or non-bank competitors. heightened competition for certain types of consumer loans could prompt industry-wide reactions such as significant reductions in the pricing or margins of those loans or the making of loans to less-creditworthy borrowers. if large numbers of consumers subsequently default on their loans, whether due to weak credit profiles, an economic downturn or other factors, this could impair their ability to repay obligations owed to jpmorgan chase and result in higher charge-offs and other credit-related losses. more broadly, widespread defaults on consumer debt could lead to recessionary conditions in the u.s. economy, and jpmorgan chase's consumer businesses may earn lower revenues in such an environment. disruptions in the liquidity or transparency of the financial markets could cause jpmorgan chase to be unable to sell, syndicate or realize the value of its positions in various debt instruments, loans, derivatives and other obligations, and thereby lead to increased risk concentrations. if jpmorgan chase is unable to reduce positions effectively during a market dislocation, this can increase both the market and credit risks associated with those positions and the level of risk-weighted assets ( rwa ) that jpmorgan chase holds on its balance sheet. these factors could increase jpmorgan chase's capital requirements and funding costs and adversely affect the profitability of jpmorgan chase's businesses. liquidity liquidity is critical to jpmorgan chase's ability to fund and operate its businesses. jpmorgan chase's liquidity could be impaired at any given time by factors such as: market-wide illiquidity or disruption unforeseen cash or capital requirements inability to sell assets, or to sell assets at favorable times or prices default by a ccp or other significant market participant unanticipated outflows of cash or collateral unexpected loss of consumer deposits caused by changes in consumer behavior, and lack of market or customer confidence in jpmorgan chase or financial institutions in general. a diminution of jpmorgan chase's liquidity may be caused by events over which it has little or no control. for example, during the 2008-2009 financial crisis, periods of low investor confidence and significant market illiquidity resulted in higher funding costs for jpmorgan chase and limited its access to some of its traditional sources of liquidity, including securitized debt issuances. there is no assurance that severe conditions of this type will not occur in the future. jpmorgan chase may need to raise funding from alternative sources if its access to stable and lower-cost sources of funding, such as deposits and borrowings from federal home loan banks, is reduced. alternative sources of funding could be more expensive or limited in availability. jpmorgan chase's funding costs could also be negatively affected by actions that jpmorgan chase may take in order to: satisfy applicable liquidity coverage ratio and net stable funding ratio requirements address obligations under its resolution plan, or satisfy regulatory requirements in jurisdictions outside the u.s. relating to the pre-positioning of liquidity in subsidiaries that are material legal entities. more generally, if jpmorgan chase fails to effectively manage its liquidity, this could constrain its ability to fund or invest in its businesses, and thereby adversely affect its results of operations. jpmorgan chase &amp; co. is a holding company and depends on the cash flows of its subsidiaries to make payments on its outstanding securities. jpmorgan chase &amp; co. is a holding company that holds the stock of jpmorgan chase bank, n.a. and an intermediate holding company, jpmorgan chase holdings llc (the ihc ). the ihc in turn holds the stock of substantially all of jpmorgan chase's subsidiaries other than jpmorgan chase bank, n.a. and its subsidiaries. the ihc also owns other assets and intercompany indebtedness owing to the holding company. the holding company is obligated to contribute to the ihc substantially all the net proceeds received from securities issuances (including issuances of senior and subordinated debt securities and of preferred and common stock). the ability of jpmorgan chase bank, n.a. and the ihc to make payments to the holding company is also 15 part i limited. jpmorgan chase bank, n.a. is subject to restrictions on its dividend distributions, as well as capital adequacy and liquidity requirements and other regulatory restrictions on its ability to make payments to the holding company. the ihc is prohibited from paying dividends or extending credit to the holding company if certain capital or liquidity thresholds are breached or if limits are otherwise imposed by jpmorgan chase's management or board of directors. as a result of these arrangements, the ability of the holding company to make various payments is dependent on its receiving dividends from jpmorgan chase bank, n.a. and dividends and extensions of credit from the ihc. these limitations could affect the holding company's ability to: pay interest on its debt securities pay dividends on its equity securities redeem or repurchase outstanding securities, and fulfill its other payment obligations. these regulatory restrictions and limitations could also result in the holding company seeking protection under bankruptcy laws at a time earlier than would have been the case absent the existence of the capital and liquidity thresholds to which the ihc is subject. reductions in jpmorgan chase's credit ratings may adversely affect its liquidity and cost of funding. jpmorgan chase &amp; co. and certain of its principal subsidiaries are rated by credit rating agencies. rating agencies evaluate both general and firm-specific and industry-specific factors when determining credit ratings for a particular financial institution, including: expected future profitability risk management practices legal expenses ratings differentials between bank holding companies and their bank and non-bank subsidiaries regulatory developments assumptions about government support, and economic and geopolitical trends jpmorgan chase closely monitors and manages, to the extent that it is able, factors that could influence its credit ratings. however, there is no assurance that jpmorgan chase's credit ratings will not be lowered in the future. furthermore, any such downgrade could occur at times of broader market instability when jpmorgan chase's options for responding to events may be more limited and general investor confidence is low. a reduction in jpmorgan chase's credit ratings could curtail jpmorgan chase's business activities and reduce its profitability in a number of ways, including: reducing its access to capital markets materially increasing its cost of issuing and servicing securities triggering additional collateral or funding requirements, and decreasing the number of investors and counterparties that are willing or permitted to do business with or lend to jpmorgan chase. any rating reduction could also increase the credit spreads charged by the market for taking credit risk on jpmorgan chase &amp; co. and its subsidiaries. this could, in turn, adversely affect the value of debt and other obligations of jpmorgan chase &amp; co. and its subsidiaries. the regulation, reform and replacement of benchmark rates could have adverse consequences on jpmorgan chase's securities issuances and its capital markets and investment activities. interest rate, equity, foreign exchange rate and other types of indices which are deemed to be benchmarks, including those in widespread and long-standing use, have been the subject of ongoing international, national and other regulatory scrutiny and initiatives and proposals for reform. some of these reforms are already effective while others are still to be implemented or are under consideration. these reforms may cause benchmarks to perform differently than in the past, or to disappear entirely, or have other consequences which cannot be fully anticipated. any of the benchmark reforms which have been proposed or implemented, or the general increased regulatory scrutiny of benchmarks, could also increase the costs and risks of administering or otherwise participating in the setting of benchmarks and complying with regulations or requirements relating to benchmarks. such factors may have the effect of discouraging market participants from continuing to administer or contribute to certain benchmarks, trigger changes in the rules or methodologies used in certain benchmarks or lead to the disappearance of certain benchmarks. any of these developments, and any future initiatives to regulate, reform or change the administration of benchmarks, could result in adverse consequences to the return on, value of and market for loans, mortgages, securities, derivatives and other financial instruments whose returns are linked to any such benchmark, including those issued, funded or held by jpmorgan chase. various regulators, industry bodies and other market participants in the u.s. and other countries are engaged in initiatives to develop, introduce and encourage the use of alternative rates to replace certain benchmarks. there is no assurance that these new rates will be accepted or widely used by market participants, or that the characteristics of any of these new rates will be similar to, or produce the economic equivalent of, the benchmarks that they seek to replace. if a particular benchmark were to be discontinued and an alternative rate has not been successfully introduced to replace that benchmark, this could result in widespread 16 dislocation in the financial markets, engender volatility in the pricing of securities, derivatives and other instruments, and suppress capital markets activities, all of which could have adverse effects on jpmorgan chase's results of operations. in addition, the transition of a particular benchmark to a replacement rate could affect hedge accounting relationships between financial instruments linked to that benchmark and any related derivatives, which could adversely affect jpmorgan chase's results. on july 27, 2017, the chief executive of the u.k. financial conduct authority (the fca ), which regulates the london interbank offered rate ( libor ), announced that the fca will no longer persuade or compel banks to submit rates for the calculation of the libor benchmark after 2021. this announcement indicates that the continuation of libor on the current basis cannot be guaranteed after 2021, and there is a substantial risk that libor will be discontinued or modified by 2021. vast amounts of loans, mortgages, securities, derivatives and other financial instruments are linked to the libor benchmark, and any failure by market participants and regulators to successfully introduce benchmark rates to replace libor and implement effective transitional arrangements to address the discontinuation of libor could, as noted above, result in disruption in the financial markets, suppress capital markets activities and give rise to litigation claims, all of which could have a negative impact on jpmorgan chase's results of operations and on libor-linked securities or other instruments which are issued, funded or held by jpmorgan chase. operational jpmorgan chase's businesses are highly dependent on the effectiveness of its operational systems and those of other market participants. jpmorgan chase's businesses rely comprehensively on the ability of jpmorgan chase's financial, accounting, transaction execution, data processing and other operational systems to process, record, monitor and report a large number of transactions on a continuous basis, and to do so accurately, quickly and securely. in addition to proper design, installation, maintenance and training, the effective functioning of jpmorgan chase's operational systems depends on: the quality of the information contained in those systems, as inaccurate, outdated or corrupted data can significantly compromise the functionality or reliability of a particular system and other systems to which it transmits or from which it receives information, and jpmorgan chase's ability to appropriately maintain and upgrade its systems on a regular basis, and to ensure that any changes introduced to its systems are managed carefully to ensure security and operational continuity and adhere to all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. jpmorgan chase also depends on its ability to access and use the operational systems of its vendors, custodians and other market participants, including clearing and payment systems, ccps, securities exchanges and data processing, security and technology companies. the ineffectiveness, failure or other disruption of operational systems upon which jpmorgan chase depends, including due to a systems malfunction, cyberbreach or other systems failure, could result in unfavorable ripple effects in the financial markets and for jpmorgan chase and its clients and customers, including: delays or other disruptions in providing information, services and liquidity to clients and customers the inability to settle transactions or obtain access to funds and other assets the possibility that funds transfers, capital markets trades or other transactions are executed erroneously, illegally or with unintended consequences financial losses, including due to loss-sharing requirements of ccps, payment systems or other market infrastructures, or as possible restitution to clients and customers higher operational costs associated with replacing services provided by a system that is unavailable client or customer dissatisfaction with jpmorgan chase's products and services loss of confidence in the ability of jpmorgan chase, or financial institutions generally, to protect against and withstand operational disruptions, or harm to jpmorgan chase's reputation. as the speed, frequency, volume, interconnectivity and complexity of transactions continues to increase, it becomes more challenging to effectively maintain and upgrade jpmorgan chase's operational systems and infrastructure, especially due to the heightened risks that: errors made by jpmorgan chase or another market participant, whether inadvertent or malicious, cause widespread system disruption isolated or seemingly insignificant errors in operational systems compound, or migrate to other systems over time, to become larger issues failures in synchronization or encryption software, or degraded performance of microprocessors due to design flaws, could cause disruptions in operational systems, or the inability of systems to communicate with each other, and third parties attempt to block the use of key technology solutions by claiming that the use infringes on their intellectual property rights. if jpmorgan chase's operational systems, or those of external parties on which jpmorgan chase's businesses depend, are unable to meet the demanding standards of jpmorgan chase's businesses and operations, or if they fail 17 part i or have other significant shortcomings, jpmorgan chase could be materially and adversely affected. jpmorgan chase can be negatively affected if it fails to identify and address operational risks associated with the introduction of or changes to products, services and delivery platforms. when jpmorgan chase launches a new product or service, introduces a new platform for the delivery or distribution of products or services (including mobile connectivity, electronic trading and cloud computing), or makes changes to an existing product, service or delivery platform, it may not fully appreciate or identify new operational risks that may arise from those changes, or may fail to implement adequate controls to mitigate the risks associated with those changes. for example, ineffective controls over newly-developed electronic trading platforms could inadvertently permit the rapid build-up of unexpected, abnormal or unusually large positions in securities or other financial instruments, or fail to anticipate or address a downturn in market liquidity which leads to sudden or severe changes in asset prices. any significant failure to identify and mitigate operational risks associated with new products or services or new platforms for delivering or distributing products or services, or changes to existing products, services or delivery platforms, could diminish jpmorgan chase's ability to operate one or more of its businesses or result in: potential liability to clients, counterparties and customers increased operating expenses higher litigation costs, including regulatory fines, penalties and other sanctions damage to jpmorgan chase's reputation impairment of jpmorgan chase's liquidity regulatory intervention, or weaker competitive standing. any of the foregoing consequences could materially and adversely affect jpmorgan chase's businesses and results of operations. jpmorgan chase's connections to external operational systems expose it to greater operational risks. external operational systems with which jpmorgan is connected, whether directly or indirectly, can be sources of operational risk to jpmorgan chase. jpmorgan chase may be exposed not only to a systems failure that may be experienced by a vendor or market infrastructure with which jpmorgan chase is directly connected, but also to a systems breakdown of another party to which such a vendor or infrastructure is connected. similarly, retailers, data aggregators and other external parties with which jpmorgan chase's customers do business can increase jpmorgan chase's operational risk. this is particularly the case where activities of customers or those parties are beyond jpmorgan chase's security and control systems, including through the use of the internet, personal smart phones and other mobile devices or services. if an external party obtains access to customer account data on jpmorgan chase's systems, and that party experiences a cyberbreach of its own systems or misappropriates that data, this could result in a variety of negative outcomes for jpmorgan chase and its clients and customers, including: heightened risk that external parties will be able to execute fraudulent transactions using jpmorgan chase's systems losses from fraudulent transactions, as well as potential liability for losses that exceed thresholds established in consumer protection laws and regulations increased operational costs to remediate the consequences of the external party's security breach, and harm to reputation arising from the perception that jpmorgan chase's systems may not be secure. as jpmorgan chase's interconnectivity with clients, customers and other external parties expands, jpmorgan chase increasingly faces the risk of operational failure with respect to the systems of those parties. security breaches affecting jpmorgan chase's clients or customers, or systems breakdowns or failures, security breaches or human error or misconduct affecting other external parties, may require jpmorgan chase to take steps to protect the integrity of its own operational systems or to safeguard confidential information, including restricting the access of customers to their accounts. these actions can increase jpmorgan chase's operational costs and potentially diminish customer satisfaction. furthermore, the widespread and expanding interconnectivity among financial institutions, central agents, ccps, payment processors, securities exchanges, clearing houses and other financial market infrastructures increases the risk that an operational failure at one institution or entity may cause an industry-wide operational failure that could materially affect jpmorgan chase's ability to conduct business. jpmorgan chase's operations depend on the competence and integrity of its employees and those of external parties. jpmorgan chase's ability to operate its businesses efficiently and profitably, and to offer products and services that meet the expectations of its clients and customers, is highly dependent on the competence and trustworthiness of its employees, as well as employees of other parties on which jpmorgan chase's operations rely, including vendors, custodians and financial markets infrastructures. jpmorgan chase's businesses could be materially and adversely affected by a significant operational breakdown or failure, theft, fraud or other unlawful conduct, or other negative outcomes caused by human error or misconduct by an 18 employee of jpmorgan chase or of another party on which jpmorgan chase's operations depend. jpmorgan chase faces substantial legal and operational risks in safeguarding personal information. jpmorgan chase's businesses are subject to complex and evolving laws and regulations, both within and outside the u.s., governing the privacy and protection of personal information of individuals. the protected parties can include: jpmorgan chase's clients and customers, and prospective clients and customers clients and customers of jpmorgan chase's clients and customers employees and prospective employees, and employees of jpmorgan chase's vendors, counterparties and other external parties. ensuring that jpmorgan chase's collection, use, transfer and storage of personal information comply with all applicable laws and regulations in all relevant jurisdictions, including where the laws of different jurisdictions are in conflict, can: increase jpmorgan chase's compliance and operating costs hinder the development of new products or services, curtail the offering of existing products or services, or affect how products and services are offered to clients and customers demand significant oversight by jpmorgan chase's management, and require jpmorgan chase to structure its businesses, operations and systems in less efficient ways. furthermore, jpmorgan chase cannot ensure that all of its clients and customers, vendors, counterparties and other external parties have appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the information exchanged between them and jpmorgan chase, particularly where information is transmitted by electronic means. jpmorgan chase could be exposed to litigation or regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions if personal, confidential or proprietary information of clients, customers, employees or others were to be mishandled or misused, such as situations where such information is: erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the information, or intercepted or otherwise compromised by third parties. concerns regarding the effectiveness of jpmorgan chase's measures to safeguard personal information, or even the perception that those measures are inadequate, could cause jpmorgan chase to lose existing or potential clients and customers, and thereby reduce jpmorgan chase's revenues. furthermore, any failure or perceived failure by jpmorgan chase to comply with applicable privacy or data protection laws and regulations may subject it to inquiries, examinations and investigations that could result in requirements to modify or cease certain operations or practices, significant liabilities or regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions. any of these could damage jpmorgan chase's reputation and otherwise adversely affect its businesses. recent, well-publicized allegations involving the misuse or inappropriate sharing of personal information have led to expanded governmental scrutiny of practices relating to the safeguarding of personal information and the use or sharing of personal data by companies in the u.s. and other countries. that scrutiny has in some cases resulted in, and could in the future lead to, the adoption of stricter laws and regulations relating to the use and sharing of personal information. these types of laws and regulations could prohibit or significantly restrict financial services firms such as jpmorgan chase from sharing information among affiliates or with third parties such as vendors, and thereby increase compliance costs, or could restrict jpmorgan chase's use of personal data when developing or offering products or services to customers. these restrictions could inhibit jpmorgan chase's development or marketing of certain products or services, or increase the costs of offering them to customers. a successful cyberattack against jpmorgan chase could cause significant harm to jpmorgan chase or its clients and customers. jpmorgan chase experiences numerous cyberattacks on its computer systems, software, networks and other technology assets on a daily basis. these cyberattacks can take many forms, but a common objective of many of these attacks is to introduce computer viruses or malware into jpmorgan chase's systems. these viruses or malicious code are typically designed to: obtain unauthorized access to confidential information belonging to jpmorgan chase or its clients, customers, counterparties or employees manipulate or destroy data disrupt, sabotage or degrade service on jpmorgan chase's systems, or steal money. jpmorgan chase has also experienced significant distributed denial-of-service attacks which are intended to disrupt online banking services. jpmorgan chase devotes significant resources to maintain and regularly upgrade its systems to protect them against cyberattacks. however, jpmorgan chase has experienced security breaches due to cyberattacks in the past, and it is inevitable that additional breaches will occur in the future. any such breach could result in serious and harmful consequences for jpmorgan chase or its clients and customers. 19 part i a principal reason that jpmorgan chase cannot provide absolute security against cyberattacks is that it may not always be possible to anticipate, detect or recognize threats to jpmorgan chase's systems, or to implement effective preventive measures against all breaches. this is because: the techniques used in cyberattacks change frequently and may not be recognized until launched cyberattacks can originate from a wide variety of sources, including third parties who are or may be involved in organized crime or linked to terrorist organizations or hostile countries, or whose objective is to disrupt the operations of financial institutions more generally, and third parties may seek to gain access to jpmorgan chase's systems either directly or using equipment or security passwords belonging to employees, customers, third-party service providers or other users of jpmorgan chase's systems. the risk of a security breach due to a cyberattack could increase in the future as jpmorgan chase continues to expand its mobile-payments and other internet-based product offerings and its internal use of web-based products and applications. a successful penetration or circumvention of the security of jpmorgan chase's systems or the systems of a vendor, governmental body or another market participant could cause serious negative consequences, including: significant disruption of jpmorgan chase's operations and those of its clients, customers and counterparties, including losing access to operational systems misappropriation of confidential information of jpmorgan chase or that of its clients, customers, counterparties, employees or regulators damage to computers or systems of jpmorgan chase and those of its clients, customers and counterparties inability to fully recover and restore data that has been stolen, manipulated or destroyed, or to prevent systems from processing fraudulent transactions violations by jpmorgan chase of applicable privacy and other laws financial loss to jpmorgan chase or to its clients, customers, counterparties or employees loss of confidence in jpmorgan chase's cybersecurity measures dissatisfaction among jpmorgan chase's clients, customers or counterparties significant exposure to litigation and regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions, and harm to jpmorgan chase's reputation. jpmorgan chase could also suffer some of the above consequences if a third party were to misappropriate confidential information obtained by intercepting signals or communications from mobile devices used by jpmorgan chase's employees. jpmorgan chase may not be able to immediately address the consequences of a security breach due to a cyberattack. a successful breach of jpmorgan chase's computer systems, software, networks or other technology assets due to a cyberattack could occur and persist for an extended period of time before being detected due to: the breadth of jpmorgan chase's operations and the high volume of transactions that it processes the large number of customers, counterparties and third-party service providers with which jpmorgan chase does business the proliferation and increasing sophistication of cyberattacks, and the possibility that a third party, after establishing a foothold on an internal network without being detected, might obtain access to other networks and systems. the extent of a particular cyberattack and the steps that jpmorgan chase may need to take to investigate the attack may not be immediately clear, and it may take a significant amount of time before such an investigation can be completed and full and reliable information about the attack is known. while such an investigation is ongoing, jpmorgan chase may not necessarily know the full extent of the harm caused by the cyberattack, and that damage may continue to spread. furthermore, it may not be clear how best to contain and remediate the harm caused by the cyberattack, and certain errors or actions could be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and remediated. any or all of these factors could further increase the costs and consequences of a cyberattack. jpmorgan chase's operations, results and reputation could be harmed by catastrophes or other events. jpmorgan chase's business and operational systems could be seriously disrupted, and its reputation could be harmed, by events that are wholly or partially beyond its control, including: cyberbreaches or breaches of physical premises, including data centers power, telecommunications or internet outages failures of, or loss of access to, operational systems, including computer systems, servers, networks and other technology assets damage to or loss of property or assets of jpmorgan chase or third parties, and any consequent injuries, including in connection with any construction projects undertaken by jpmorgan chase natural disasters or severe weather conditions 20 health emergencies or pandemics, or events arising from local or larger-scale political events, including outbreaks of hostilities or terrorist acts. jpmorgan chase maintains a firm-wide resiliency and crisis management program that is intended to ensure the ability to recover critical business functions and supporting assets, including staff, technology and facilities, in the event of a business interruption. there can be no assurance that jpmorgan chase's resiliency plans will fully mitigate all potential business continuity risks to jpmorgan chase or its clients and customers. furthermore, should emergency or catastrophic events such as severe or abnormal weather conditions become more chronic, the disruptive effects of those events on jpmorgan chase's business and operations, and on its clients, customers, counterparties and employees, could become more significant and long-lasting. any significant failure or disruption of jpmorgan chase's operations or operational systems, or any catastrophic event, could: hinder jpmorgan chase's ability to provide services to its clients and customers or to transact with its counterparties require it to expend significant resources to correct the failure or disruption cause it to incur losses or liabilities, including from loss of revenue, damage to or loss of property, or injuries expose it to litigation or regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions, and harm its reputation. jpmorgan chase's risk management framework and procedures may not be effective in identifying and mitigating every risk to jpmorgan chase. jpmorgan chase's risk management framework is intended to mitigate risk and loss. the framework includes both the first line of defense, consisting of each line of business and treasury and the chief investment office, including their aligned operations, technology and control management groups, and the second line of defense, consisting of independent risk management. jpmorgan chase has established processes and procedures to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze the types of risk to which it is subject. however, there are inherent limitations to risk management strategies because there may be existing or future risks that jpmorgan chase has not appropriately anticipated or identified. any inadequacy or lapse in jpmorgan chase's risk management framework, governance structure, procedures and practices, models or reporting systems could expose it to unexpected losses, and its financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, any such inadequacy or lapse could: require significant resources to remediate attract heightened regulatory scrutiny expose jpmorgan chase to regulatory investigations or legal proceedings subject it to litigation or regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions harm its reputation, or diminish confidence in jpmorgan chase. jpmorgan chase relies on data to assess its various risk exposures. any deficiencies in the quality or effectiveness of jpmorgan chase's data gathering and validation processes could result in ineffective risk management practices. these deficiencies could also result in inaccurate risk reporting. jpmorgan chase establishes allowances for probable credit losses that are inherent in its credit exposures. it then employs stress testing and other techniques to determine the capital and liquidity necessary in the event of adverse economic or market events. these processes are critical to jpmorgan chase's results of operations and financial condition. they require difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of how economic conditions might impair the ability of jpmorgan chase's borrowers and counterparties to repay their loans or other obligations. it is possible that jpmorgan chase will fail to identify the proper factors or that it will fail to accurately estimate the impact of factors that it identifies. many of jpmorgan chase's risk management strategies and techniques consider historical market behavior. these strategies and techniques are based to some degree on management's subjective judgment. for example, many models used by jpmorgan chase are based on assumptions regarding historical correlations among prices of various asset classes or other market indicators. in times of market stress, including difficult or less liquid market environments, or in the event of other unforeseen circumstances, previously uncorrelated indicators may become correlated. conversely, previously-correlated indicators may make unrelated movements at those times. sudden market movements and unanticipated or unidentified market or economic movements could, in some circumstances, limit the effectiveness of jpmorgan chase's risk management strategies, causing it to incur losses. jpmorgan chase could incur significant losses, its capital levels could be reduced and it could face greater regulatory scrutiny if its models or estimations prove to be inadequate. jpmorgan chase has developed and uses a variety of models and other analytical and judgment-based estimations to assess and implement mitigating controls over its market, credit, liquidity, operational and other risks. these models and estimations are based on a variety of assumptions and historical trends, and are periodically reviewed and modified as necessary. the models and estimations that jpmorgan chase uses may not be effective in all cases to 21 part i identify, observe and mitigate risk due to a variety of factors, such as: reliance on historical trends that may not accurately predict future events, including assumptions underlying the models and estimations which predict correlation among certain market indicators or asset prices inherent limitations associated with forecasting uncertain economic and financial outcomes historical trend information may be incomplete, or may not anticipate severely negative market conditions such as extreme volatility, dislocation or lack of liquidity technology that is introduced to run models or estimations may not perform as expected, or may not be well understood by the personnel using the technology models and estimations may contain erroneous data, valuations, formulas or algorithms, and review processes may fail to detect flaws in models and estimations. some of the models and other analytical and judgment-based estimations used by jpmorgan chase in managing risks are subject to review by, and require the approval of, jpmorgan chase's regulators. these reviews are required before jpmorgan chase may use those models and estimations in connection with calculating market risk rwa, credit risk rwa and operational risk rwa under basel iii. if jpmorgan chase's models or estimations are not approved by its regulators, it may be subject to higher capital charges, which could adversely affect its financial results or limit the ability to expand its businesses. jpmorgan chase's capital actions could also be constrained if a ccar submission is not approved by its banking regulators due to the perceived inadequacy of its models or estimations. enhanced standards for vendor risk management can result in higher costs and other potential exposures. jpmorgan chase must comply with enhanced standards for the assessment and management of risks associated with doing business with vendors and other third-party service providers. these requirements are contained both in bank regulatory regulations and guidance and in certain consent orders to which jpmorgan chase has been subject. jpmorgan chase incurs significant costs and expenses in connection with its initiatives to address the risks associated with oversight of its third party relationships. jpmorgan chase's failure to appropriately assess and manage third-party relationships, especially those involving significant banking functions, shared services or other critical activities, could materially adversely affect jpmorgan chase. specifically, any such failure could result in: potential liability to clients and customers regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions increased operational costs, or harm to jpmorgan chase's reputation. requirements for physical settlement and delivery in trading agreements could expose jpmorgan chase to operational and other risks. certain of jpmorgan chase's markets transactions require the physical settlement by delivery of securities or other obligations that jpmorgan chase does not own. if jpmorgan chase is unable to obtain the obligations within the required timeframe, jpmorgan chase could forfeit payments otherwise due. failures could also result in settlement delays, which could damage jpmorgan chase's reputation and ability to transact business. failure to timely settle and confirm transactions could also subject jpmorgan chase to heightened credit and operational risk, and losses in the event of a default. jpmorgan chase could incur unexpected losses if estimates and judgments underlying its financial statements are incorrect. under u.s. generally accepted accounting principles ( u.s. gaap ), jpmorgan chase is required to use estimates and apply judgments in preparing its financial statements, including in determining allowances for credit losses and reserves related to litigation. certain financial instruments require a determination of their fair value in order to prepare jpmorgan chase's financial statements, including: trading assets and liabilities instruments in the investment securities portfolio certain loans msrs structured notes, and certain repurchase and resale agreements. where quoted market prices are not available for these types of financial instruments, jpmorgan chase may make fair value determinations based on internally developed models or other means which ultimately rely to some degree on management estimates and judgment. sudden illiquidity in markets or declines in prices of certain loans and securities may make it more difficult to value certain financial instruments, which could lead to valuations being subsequently changed or adjusted. if estimates or judgments underlying jpmorgan chase's financial statements prove to have been incorrect, jpmorgan chase may experience material losses. lapses in controls over disclosure or financial reporting could materially affect jpmorgan chase's profitability or reputation. there can be no assurance that jpmorgan chase's disclosure controls and procedures will be effective in every circumstance, or that a material weakness or significant deficiency in internal control over financial reporting will not occur. any such lapses or deficiencies could: 22 materially and adversely affect jpmorgan chase's business and results of operations or financial condition restrict its ability to access the capital markets require it to expend significant resources to correct the lapses or deficiencies expose it to litigation or regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions harm its reputation, or otherwise diminish investor confidence in jpmorgan chase. jpmorgan chase could be adversely affected by changes in accounting standards or policies. the preparation of jpmorgan chase's financial statements is based on accounting standards established by the financial accounting standards board and the securities and exchange commission, as well as more detailed accounting policies established by jpmorgan chase's management. from time to time these accounting standards or accounting policies may change, and in some cases these changes could have a material effect on jpmorgan chase's financial statements and may adversely affect its financial results or investor perceptions of those results. for example, on january 1, 2020, jpmorgan chase and other u.s. companies will be required to implement a new accounting standard, commonly referred to as the current expected credit losses ( cecl ) framework, which will require earlier recognition of expected credit losses on loans and certain other instruments, replacing the incurred loss model that is currently in use. jpmorgan chase expects that under cecl, it will need to, among other things, increase the allowance for credit losses related to its loans and other lending-related commitments, which may have a negative impact on its capital levels. this new accounting standard may result in greater volatility of jpmorgan chase's earnings and capital levels over economic cycles and could potentially affect jpmorgan chase's capital distribution plans, depending upon final guidance from the regulators. in addition, jpmorgan chase could be adversely impacted by associated changes in the competitive environment in which it operates, including changes in the availability or pricing of loan products, particularly during periods of economic stress, as well as changes related to non-u.s. financial institutions or other competitors that are not subject to this new accounting standard. strategic if jpmorgan chase's management fails to develop and execute effective business strategies, and to anticipate changes affecting those strategies, jpmorgan chase's competitive standing and results could suffer. jpmorgan chase's business strategies significantly affect its competitive standing and results of operations. these strategies relate to: the products and services that jpmorgan chase offers the geographies in which it operates the types of clients and customers that it serves the counterparties with which it does business, and the methods and distribution channels by which it offers products and services. if management makes choices about these strategies and goals that prove to be incorrect, do not accurately assess the competitive landscape and industry trends, or fail to address changing regulatory and market environments, then the franchise values and growth prospects of jpmorgan chase's businesses may suffer and its earnings could decline. jpmorgan chase's growth and prospects also depend on management's ability to develop and execute effective business plans to address these strategic priorities, both in the near term and over longer time horizons. management's effectiveness in this regard will affect jpmorgan chase's ability to develop and enhance its resources, control expenses and return capital to shareholders. each of these objectives could be adversely affected by any failure on the part of management to: devise effective business plans and strategies effectively implement business decisions, including minimizing bureaucratic processes institute controls that appropriately address the risks associated with business activities and any changes in those activities offer products and services that are appropriately priced, meet the changing expectations of clients and customers and are delivered in ways that enhance client and customer satisfaction allocate capital in a manner that promotes long-term stability to enable jpmorgan chase to build and invest in market-leading businesses, even in a highly stressed environment allocate capital appropriately due to imprecise modeling or subjective judgments made in connection with those allocations adequately respond to regulatory requirements appropriately address shareholder concerns 23 part i react quickly to changes in market conditions or market structures, or develop and enhance the operational, technology, risk, financial and managerial resources necessary to grow and manage jpmorgan chase's businesses. additionally, jpmorgan chase's board of directors plays an important role in exercising appropriate oversight of management's strategic decisions, and a failure by the board to perform this function could also impair jpmorgan chase's results of operations. conduct conduct failure by jpmorgan chase employees can harm clients and customers, impact market integrity, damage jpmorgan chase's reputation and trigger litigation and regulatory action. jpmorgan chase's employees interact with clients, customers and counterparties, and with each other, every day. all employees are expected to demonstrate values and exhibit the behaviors that are an integral part of jpmorgan chase's how we do business principles, including jpmorgan chase's commitment to do first class business in a first class way. jpmorgan chase endeavors to embed conduct risk management throughout an employee's life cycle, including recruiting, onboarding, training and development, and performance management. conduct risk management is also an integral component of jpmorgan chase's promotion and compensation processes. notwithstanding these expectations, policies and practices, certain employees have in the past engaged in improper or illegal conduct, and these instances of misconduct have resulted in litigation as well as resolutions of governmental investigations or enforcement actions involving consent orders, deferred prosecution agreements, non-prosecution agreements and other civil or criminal sanctions. there is no assurance that further inappropriate or unlawful actions by employees will not occur or that any such actions will always be detected, deterred or prevented. jpmorgan chase's reputation could be harmed, and collateral consequences could result, from a failure by one or more employees to act consistently with jpmorgan chase's expectations, policies and practices, including by acting in ways that harm clients, customers, other market participants or other employees. some examples of this include: improperly selling and marketing jpmorgan chase's products or services engaging in insider trading, market manipulation or unauthorized trading facilitating illegal or aggressive tax-motivated transactions, or transactions designed to circumvent economic sanction programs failing to fulfill fiduciary obligations or other duties owed to clients or customers violating anti-trust or anti-competition laws by colluding with other market participants to manipulate markets, prices or indices engaging in discriminatory behavior or harassment making risk decisions in ways that subordinate jpmorgan chase's risk appetite to employee compensation objectives, and misappropriating property, confidential or proprietary information, or technology assets belonging to jpmorgan chase, its clients and customers or third parties. the consequences of any failure by employees to act consistently with jpmorgan chase's expectations, policies or practices could include litigation, or regulatory or other governmental investigations or enforcement actions. any of these proceedings or actions could result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other sanctions, or lead to: financial losses increased operational and compliance costs greater regulatory scrutiny regulatory actions that require jpmorgan chase to restructure, curtail or cease certain of its activities the need for significant oversight by jpmorgan chase's management loss of clients or customers, and harm to jpmorgan chase's reputation. reputation damage to jpmorgan chase's reputation could harm its businesses. maintaining trust in jpmorgan chase is critical to its ability to attract and retain clients, customers, investors and employees. damage to jpmorgan chase's reputation can therefore cause significant harm to jpmorgan chase's business and prospects. harm to jpmorgan chase's reputation can arise from numerous sources, including: employee misconduct, including discriminatory behavior or harassment security breaches, including cyberattacks failure to safeguard client or customer information not appropriately managing social and environmental risk issues associated with its business activities or those of its clients compliance or operational failures litigation or regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions, and regulatory investigations or enforcement actions, or resolutions of these matters. 24 jpmorgan chase's reputation could also be harmed by the failure or perceived failure of certain third parties to comply with laws or regulations, including companies in which jpmorgan chase has made principal investments, parties to joint ventures with jpmorgan chase, and vendors and other third parties with which jpmorgan chase does business. jpmorgan chase's reputation or prospects may be significantly damaged by adverse publicity or negative information regarding jpmorgan chase, whether or not true, that may be posted on social media, non-mainstream news services or other parts of the internet, and this risk can be magnified by the speed and pervasiveness with which information is disseminated through those channels. social and environmental activists are increasingly targeting financial services firms such as jpmorgan chase with public criticism for their relationships with clients that are engaged in certain sensitive industries, including businesses whose products are or are perceived to be harmful to the health of consumers, or whose activities negatively affect or are perceived to negatively affect the environment, workers' rights or communities. activists have also engaged in public protests at jpmorgan chase's headquarters and other properties. activist criticism of jpmorgan chase's relationships with clients in sensitive industries could potentially engender dissatisfaction among clients, customers, investors and employees with how jpmorgan chase addresses social and environmental concerns in its business activities. alternatively, yielding to activism targeted at certain sensitive industries could damage jpmorgan chase's relationships with clients and customers, and with governmental bodies in jurisdictions in which jpmorgan chase does business, whose views are not aligned with those of social and environmental activists. in either case, the resulting harm to jpmorgan chase's reputation could: cause certain clients and customers to cease doing business with jpmorgan chase impair jpmorgan chase's ability to attract new clients and customers, or to expand its relationships with existing clients and customers diminish jpmorgan chase's ability to hire or retain employees, or prompt jpmorgan chase to cease doing business with certain clients. any of the above factors could negatively affect jpmorgan chase's results of operations and its ability to maintain its competitive standing. actions by the financial services industry generally or by certain members of or individuals in the industry can also affect jpmorgan chase's reputation. for example, concerns that consumers have been treated unfairly by a financial institution, or that a financial institution has acted inappropriately with respect to the methods used to offer products to customers, can damage the reputation of the industry as a whole. if jpmorgan chase is perceived to have engaged in these types of behaviors, the measures needed to address the associated reputational issues could increase jpmorgan chase's operational and compliance costs and negatively affect its earnings. failure to effectively manage potential conflicts of interest can result in litigation and enforcement actions, as well as damage jpmorgan chase's reputation. jpmorgan chase's ability to manage potential conflicts of interest has become increasingly complex as its business activities encompass more transactions, obligations and interests with and among jpmorgan chase's clients and customers. jpmorgan chase can become subject to litigation and enforcement actions, and its reputation can be damaged, by the failure or perceived failure to: adequately address or appropriately disclose conflicts of interest deliver appropriate standards of service and quality treat clients and customers with the appropriate standard of care use client and customer data responsibly and in a manner that meets legal requirements and regulatory expectations provide fiduciary products or services in accordance with the applicable legal and regulatory standards, or handle or use confidential information of customers or clients appropriately or in compliance with applicable data protection and privacy laws and regulations. in the future, a failure or perceived failure to appropriately address conflicts of interest or fiduciary obligations could result in customer dissatisfaction, litigation and regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions, and heightened regulatory scrutiny and enforcement actions, all of which can lead to lost revenue and higher operating costs and cause serious harm to jpmorgan chase's reputation. country adverse economic and political developments in a country or region, or globally, can have a negative impact on jpmorgan chase's businesses. jpmorgan chase's businesses and earnings can be affected by the monetary, fiscal and other policies adopted by regulatory authorities and agencies in the countries in which jpmorgan chase operates. changes in fiscal policies by central banks or regulatory authorities, and the manner in which those policies are executed, are beyond jpmorgan chase's control and may be difficult to predict. consequently, unanticipated changes in these policies or the ways in which they are implemented could have a negative impact on jpmorgan chase's businesses and results of operations. some countries or regions in which jpmorgan chase operates or invests, or in which jpmorgan chase may do business in the future, have in the past experienced severe 25 part i economic disruptions particular to those countries or regions. concerns regarding the fiscal condition of one or more countries, or the possibility that a particular country may decide to depart from a trade, monetary or political pact, can result in a deterioration of economic and market conditions within the affected countries or regions, including: slowing growth rates, rising inflation or recessionary economic conditions a contraction of available credit diminished investor and consumer confidence, including loss of confidence in local banking systems increased market volatility reduced commercial activity among trading partners, or the potential for currency redenomination or the dissolution of a political or economic alliance or treaty. any or all of these factors could have a negative impact on jpmorgan chase's business and results of operations in the affected country or region. these developments can also lead to a contagion which causes similar conditions to arise in other countries in the same region or beyond. furthermore, governments in particular countries or regions in which jpmorgan chase or its clients do business may choose to adopt protectionist economic or trade policies in response to concerns about domestic economic conditions or as countermeasures to policies or actions taken by other countries or regions. any or all of these developments could lead to diminished cross-border trade and financing activity within that country or region, all of which could negatively affect jpmorgan chase's business and earnings in those jurisdictions and increase its operational costs. if jpmorgan chase takes steps to reduce its market and credit risk exposure within a particular country or region that is experiencing economic or political disruption, it may incur losses that are higher than expected because it will be disposing of assets when market conditions are likely to be highly unfavorable. an outbreak of hostilities between countries or within a country or region could have a material adverse effect on the global economy and on jpmorgan chase's businesses within the affected region or globally. aggressive actions by hostile governments or groups, including armed conflict or intensified cyberattacks, could expand in unpredictable ways by drawing in other countries or escalating into full-scale war with potentially catastrophic consequences, particularly if one or more of the combatants possess nuclear weapons. depending on the scope of the conflict, the hostilities could result in: worldwide economic disruption heightened volatility in financial markets severe declines in asset values, accompanied by widespread sell-offs of investments substantial depreciation of local currencies, potentially leading to defaults by borrowers and counterparties in the affected region disruption of global trade, and diminished consumer, business and investor confidence. any of the above consequences could have significant negative effects on jpmorgan chase's operations and earnings, both in the countries or region directly affected by the hostilities or globally. further, if the u.s. were to become directly involved in such a conflict, this could lead to a curtailment of any operations that jpmorgan chase may have in the affected countries or region, as well as in any nation that is aligned against the u.s. in the hostilities. jpmorgan chase could also experience more numerous and aggressive cyberattacks launched by or under the sponsorship of one or more of the adversaries in such a conflict. jpmorgan chase's business activities with governmental entities can pose an enhanced risk of loss. several of jpmorgan chase's businesses engage in transactions with, or trade in obligations of, governmental entities, including national, state, provincial, municipal and local authorities, both within and outside the u.s. these activities can expose jpmorgan chase to enhanced sovereign, credit-related, operational and reputation risks, including the risks that a governmental entity may: default on or restructure its obligations claim that actions taken by government officials were beyond the legal authority of those officials, or repudiate transactions authorized by a previous incumbent government. any or all of these actions could adversely affect jpmorgan chase's financial condition and results of operations and could hurt its reputation, particularly if jpmorgan chase pursues claims against a government obligor in a jurisdiction in which it has significant business relationships with clients or customers. jpmorgan chase's business and revenues in emerging markets can be hampered by local economic, political, regulatory and social factors. some of the countries in which jpmorgan chase conducts business have economies or markets that are less developed and more volatile, and may have legal and regulatory regimes that are less established or predictable, than the u.s. and other developed markets in which jpmorgan chase operates. some of these countries have in the past experienced severe economic disruptions, including: extreme currency fluctuations 26 high inflation low or negative growth, and defaults or potential defaults on sovereign debt. the governments in these countries have sometimes reacted to these developments by imposing restrictive policies that adversely affect the local and regional business environment, including: price, capital or exchange controls, including imposition of punitive transfer and convertibility restrictions expropriation or nationalization of assets or confiscation of property, including intellectual property, and changes in laws and regulations. the impact of these actions could be accentuated in trading markets that are smaller, less liquid and more volatile than more-developed markets. these types of government actions can negatively affect jpmorgan chase's operations in the relevant country, either directly or by suppressing the business activities of local clients or multi-national clients that conduct business in the jurisdiction. for example, some or all of these governmental actions can result in funds belonging to jpmorgan chase, or that it places with a local custodian on behalf of a client, being effectively trapped in a country. in addition to the ultimate risk of losing the funds entirely, jpmorgan chase could be exposed for an extended period of time to the credit risk of a local custodian that is now operating in a deteriorating domestic economy. in addition, emerging markets countries, as well as certain more developed countries, have been susceptible to unfavorable social developments arising from poor economic conditions and related governmental actions, including: social unrest general strikes and demonstrations crime and corruption security and personal safety issues outbreaks of hostilities overthrow of incumbent governments terrorist attacks, and other forms of internal discord. these economic, political, regulatory and social developments have in the past resulted in, and in the future could lead to, conditions that can adversely affect jpmorgan chase's operations in those countries and impair the revenues, growth and profitability of those operations. in addition, any of these events or circumstances in one country can affect jpmorgan chase's operations and investments in another country or countries, including in the u.s. competition the financial services industry is highly competitive, and jpmorgan chase's results of operations will suffer if it is not a strong, effective and forward-looking competitor. jpmorgan chase operates in a highly competitive environment and expects that competition in the u.s. and global financial services industry will continue to be intense. competitors include: other banks and financial institutions trading, advisory and investment management firms finance companies and technology companies, and other nonbank firms that are engaged in providing similar products and services. jpmorgan chase cannot provide assurance that the significant competition in the financial services industry will not materially and adversely affect its future results of operations. new competitors in the financial services industry continue to emerge. for example, technological advances and the growth of e-commerce have made it possible for non-depository institutions to offer products and services that traditionally were banking products. these advances have also allowed financial institutions and other companies to provide electronic and internet-based financial solutions, including electronic securities trading, payments processing and online automated algorithmic-based investment advice. furthermore, both financial institutions and their non-banking competitors face the risk that payments processing and other services could be significantly disrupted by technologies, such as cryptocurrencies, that require no intermediation. new technologies have required and could require jpmorgan chase to spend more to modify or adapt its products to attract and retain clients and customers or to match products and services offered by its competitors, including technology companies. in addition, new technologies may be used by customers, or breached or infiltrated by third parties, in unexpected ways, which can increase jpmorgan chase's costs for complying with laws and regulations that apply to the offering of products and services through those technologies and reduce the income that jpmorgan chase earns from providing products and services through those new technologies. ongoing or increased competition may put pressure on the pricing for jpmorgan chase's products and services or may cause jpmorgan chase to lose market share, particularly with respect to traditional banking products such as deposits and bank accounts. this competition may be on the basis of quality and variety of products and services offered, transaction execution, innovation, reputation and price. the failure of any of jpmorgan chase's businesses to meet the expectations of clients and customers, whether due to general market conditions, under-performance, a decision not to offer a particular product or service, changes in client and customer expectations or other 27 part i factors, could affect jpmorgan chase's ability to attract or retain clients and customers. any such impact could, in turn, reduce jpmorgan chase's revenues. increased competition also may require jpmorgan chase to make additional capital investments in its businesses, or to extend more of its capital on behalf of its clients in order to remain competitive. non-u.s. competitors of jpmorgan chase's wholesale businesses outside the u.s. are typically subject to different, and in some cases, less stringent, legislative and regulatory regimes. the more restrictive laws and regulations applicable to jpmorgan chase and other u.s. financial services institutions can put jpmorgan chase and those firms at a competitive disadvantage to non-u.s. competitors. this could reduce the revenue and profitability of jpmorgan chase's wholesale businesses, resulting from: prohibitions on engaging in certain transactions higher capital and liquidity requirements making jpmorgan chase's pricing of certain transactions more expensive for clients, and adversely affecting jpmorgan chase's cost structure for providing certain products. people jpmorgan chase's ability to attract and retain qualified employees is critical to its success. jpmorgan chase's employees are its most important resource, and in many areas of the financial services industry, competition for qualified personnel is intense. jpmorgan chase endeavors to attract talented and diverse new employees and retain and motivate its existing employees. if jpmorgan chase were unable to continue to attract or retain qualified employees, including successors to the chief executive officer or members of the operating committee, jpmorgan chase's performance, including its competitive position, could be materially and adversely affected. unfavorable changes in immigration policies could adversely affect the quality of jpmorgan chase's businesses and operations. jpmorgan chase relies on the skills, knowledge and expertise of employees located throughout the world. changes in immigration policies in the u.s. and other countries that unduly restrict or otherwise make it more difficult for employees or their family members to work in, or transfer among, jurisdictions in which jpmorgan chase has operations or conducts its business could inhibit jpmorgan chase's ability to attract and retain qualified employees, and thereby dilute the quality of its workforce, or could prompt jpmorgan chase to make structural changes to its worldwide operating model that are less efficient or more costly. legal jpmorgan chase faces significant legal risks from private actions and formal and informal regulatory and government investigations. jpmorgan chase is named as a defendant or is otherwise involved in many legal proceedings, including class actions and other litigation or disputes with third parties. actions currently pending against jpmorgan chase may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other sanctions adverse to jpmorgan chase. any of these matters could materially and adversely affect jpmorgan chase's business, financial condition or results of operations, or cause serious reputational harm. as a participant in the financial services industry, it is likely that jpmorgan chase will continue to experience a high level of litigation and regulatory and government investigations related to its businesses and operations. regulators and other government agencies conduct examinations of jpmorgan chase and its subsidiaries both on a routine basis and in targeted exams, and jpmorgan chase's businesses and operations are subject to heightened regulatory oversight. this heightened regulatory scrutiny, or the results of such an investigation or examination, may lead to additional regulatory investigations or enforcement actions. there is no assurance that those actions will not result in resolutions or other enforcement actions against jpmorgan chase. furthermore, a single event involving a potential violation of law or regulation may give rise to numerous and overlapping investigations and proceedings, either by multiple federal, state or local agencies and officials in the u.s. or, in some instances, regulators and other governmental officials in non-u.s. jurisdictions. if another financial institution violates a law or regulation relating to a particular business activity or practice, this will often give rise to an investigation by regulators and other governmental agencies of the same or similar activity or practice by jpmorgan chase. these and other initiatives by u.s. and non-u.s. governmental authorities may subject jpmorgan chase to judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other sanctions, and may require jpmorgan chase to restructure its operations and activities or to cease offering certain products or services. all of these potential outcomes could harm jpmorgan chase's reputation or lead to higher operational costs, thereby reducing jpmorgan chase's profitability, or result in collateral consequences. in addition, the extent of jpmorgan chase's exposure to legal and regulatory matters can be unpredictable and could, in some cases, exceed the amount of reserves that jpmorgan chase has established for those matters. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 30 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. for a discussion of quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, refer to the market risk management section of management's discussion and analysis on pages 124 131 .risk factors. 6 28 risk factors. the following discussion sets forth the material risk factors that could affect jpmorgan chase's financial condition and operations. readers should not consider any descriptions of these factors to be a complete set of all potential risks that could affect the firm. any of the risk factors discussed below could by itself, or combined with other factors, materially and adversely affect jpmorgan chase's business, results of operations, financial condition, capital position, liquidity, competitive position or reputation, including by materially increasing expenses or decreasing revenues, which could result in material losses or a decrease in earnings. regulatory jpmorgan chase's businesses are highly regulated, and the laws and regulations that apply to jpmorgan chase have a significant impact on its business and operations. jpmorgan chase is a financial services firm with operations worldwide. jpmorgan chase must comply with the laws, rules and regulations that apply to its operations in all of the jurisdictions around the world in which it does business. regulation of financial services is extensive. jpmorgan chase has experienced an extended period of significant change in laws and regulations affecting the financial services industry, both within and outside the u.s. the supervision of financial services firms also expanded significantly. the increased regulation and supervision of jpmorgan chase has affected the way that it conducts its business and structures its operations. existing and new laws and regulations and expanded supervision could require jpmorgan chase to make further changes to its business and operations. these changes could result in jpmorgan chase incurring additional costs for complying with laws and regulations and could reduce its profitability. for example, existing and new laws and regulations have in the past and could in the future require jpmorgan chase to: limit the products and services that it offers reduce the liquidity that it can provide through its market-making activities stop or discourage it from engaging in business opportunities that it might otherwise pursue recognize losses in the value of assets that it holds pay higher taxes, assessments, levies or other governmental charges, including in connection with the resolution of tax examinations dispose of certain assets, and do so at times or prices that are disadvantageous impose restrictions on certain business activities, or increase the prices that it charges for products and services, which could reduce the demand for them. differences in financial services regulation can be disadvantageous for jpmorgan chase's business. the content and application of laws and regulations affecting financial services firms sometimes vary according to factors such as the size of the firm, the jurisdiction in which it is organized or operates, and other criteria. for example: larger firms are often subject to more stringent supervision and regulation financial technology companies and other non-traditional competitors may not be subject to banking regulation, or may be supervised by a national or state regulatory agency that does not have the same resources or regulatory priorities as the regulatory agencies which supervise more diversified financial services firms, or the financial services regulatory framework in a particular jurisdiction may favor financial institutions that are based in that jurisdiction. these differences in the regulatory framework can result in a firm such as jpmorgan chase losing market share to competitors that are less regulated or not subject to regulation, especially with respect to unregulated financial products. there can also be significant differences in the ways that similar regulatory initiatives affecting the financial services industry are implemented in the u.s. and in other countries 6 and regions in which jpmorgan chase does business. for example, when adopting rules that are intended to implement a global regulatory initiative or standard, a national regulator may introduce additional or more restrictive requirements, which can create competitive disadvantages for financial services firms, such as jpmorgan chase, that may be subject to those enhanced regulations. legislative and regulatory initiatives outside the u.s. could require jpmorgan chase to make significant modifications to its operations and legal entity structure in the relevant countries or regions in order to comply with those requirements. these include laws and regulations that have been adopted or proposed relating to: the resolution of financial institutions the establishment of locally-based intermediate holding companies or operating subsidiaries requirements to maintain minimum amounts of capital or liquidity in locally-based subsidiaries the separation (or ring fencing ) of core banking products and services from markets activities requirements for executing or settling transactions on exchanges or through central counterparties ( ccps ) position limits and reporting rules for derivatives governance and accountability regimes conduct of business requirements, and restrictions on compensation. these types of differences in financial services regulation, or inconsistencies or conflicts between laws and regulations between different jurisdictions, could require jpmorgan chase to: divest assets or restructure its operations absorb increased operational, capital and liquidity costs change the prices that it charges for its products and services curtail the products and services that it offers to its customers and clients, or incur higher costs for complying with different legal and regulatory frameworks. any or all of these factors could harm jpmorgan chase's ability to compete against other firms that are not subject to the same laws and regulations or supervisory oversight, or harm jpmorgan chase's businesses, results of operations and profitability. heightened regulatory scrutiny of jpmorgan chase's businesses has increased its compliance costs and could result in restrictions on its operations. jpmorgan chase's operations are subject to heightened oversight and scrutiny from regulatory authorities in many jurisdictions where jpmorgan chase does business. jpmorgan chase has paid significant fines, provided other monetary relief, incurred other penalties and experienced other repercussions in connection with resolving several investigations and enforcement actions by governmental agencies. jpmorgan chase could become subject to similar regulatory resolutions or other actions in the future, and addressing the requirements of any such resolutions or actions could result in jpmorgan chase incurring higher operational and compliance costs or needing to comply with other restrictions. in connection with resolving specific regulatory investigations or enforcement actions, certain regulators have required jpmorgan chase and other financial institutions to admit wrongdoing with respect to the activities that gave rise to the resolution. these types of admissions can lead to: greater exposure in civil litigation damage to reputation disqualification from doing business with certain clients or customers, or in specific jurisdictions, or other direct and indirect adverse effects. furthermore, u.s. government officials have demonstrated a willingness to bring criminal actions against financial institutions and have demanded that institutions plead guilty to criminal offenses or admit other wrongdoing in connection with resolving regulatory investigations or enforcement actions. resolutions of this type can have significant collateral consequences for the subject financial institution, including: loss of clients, customers and business restrictions on offering certain products or services, and losing permission to operate certain businesses, either temporarily or permanently. jpmorgan chase expects that it and other financial services firms will continue to be subject to heightened regulatory scrutiny and governmental investigations and enforcement actions. jpmorgan chase also expects that regulators will continue to insist that financial institutions be penalized for actual or deemed violations of law with formal and punitive enforcement actions, including the imposition of significant monetary and other sanctions, rather than resolving these matters through informal supervisory actions. furthermore, if jpmorgan chase fails to meet the requirements of any resolution of a governmental investigation or enforcement action, or to maintain risk and control processes that meet 7 part i the heightened standards established by its regulators, it could be required to: enter into further resolutions of investigations or enforcement actions pay additional regulatory fines, penalties or judgments, or accept material regulatory restrictions on, or changes in the management of, its businesses. in these circumstances, jpmorgan chase could also become subject to other sanctions, or to prosecution or civil litigation with respect to the conduct that gave rise to an investigation or enforcement action. complying with economic sanctions and anti-corruption and anti-money laundering laws and regulations can increase jpmorgan chase's operational and compliance costs and risks. jpmorgan chase must comply with economic sanctions and embargo programs administered by the office of foreign assets control ( ofac ) and similar national and multi-national bodies and governmental agencies outside the u.s., as well as anti-corruption and anti-money laundering laws and regulations throughout the world. jpmorgan chase can incur higher costs and face greater compliance risks in structuring and operating its businesses to comply with these requirements. furthermore, a violation of a sanction or embargo program or anti-corruption or anti-money laundering laws and regulations could subject jpmorgan chase, and individual employees, to regulatory enforcement actions as well as significant civil and criminal penalties. jpmorgan chase's operations can be constrained in countries with less predictable legal and regulatory frameworks. if the legal and regulatory system in a particular country is less predictable, this can create a more difficult environment in which to conduct business. for example, any of the following could hamper jpmorgan chase's operations and reduce its earnings in these types of countries: the absence of a statutory or regulatory basis or guidance for engaging in specific types of business or transactions conflicting or ambiguous laws and regulations, or the inconsistent application or interpretation of existing laws and regulations uncertainty concerning the enforceability of contractual, intellectual property or other obligations difficulty in competing in economies in which the government controls or protects all or a portion of the local economy or specific businesses, or where graft or corruption may be pervasive, and the threat of arbitrary regulatory investigations, civil litigations or criminal prosecutions, the termination of licenses required to operate in the local market or the suspension of business relationships with governmental bodies. conducting business in countries with less predictable legal and regulatory regimes could require jpmorgan chase to devote significant additional resources to understanding, and monitoring changes in, local laws and regulations, as well as structuring its operations to comply with local laws and regulations and implementing and administering related internal policies and procedures. there can be no assurance that jpmorgan chase will always be successful in its efforts to fully understand and to conduct its business in compliance with the laws and regulations of all of the jurisdictions in which it operates, and the risk of non-compliance can be greater in countries that have less predictable legal and regulatory systems. requirements for the orderly resolution of jpmorgan chase could result in jpmorgan chase having to restructure or reorganize its businesses. jpmorgan chase is required under federal reserve and fdic rules to prepare and submit periodically to those agencies a detailed plan for rapid and orderly resolution in bankruptcy, without extraordinary government support, in the event of material financial distress or failure. the agencies' evaluation of jpmorgan chase's resolution plan may change, and the requirements for resolution plans may be modified from time to time. any such determinations or modifications could result in jpmorgan chase needing to make changes to its legal entity structure or to certain internal or external activities, which could increase its funding or operational costs, or hamper its ability to serve clients and customers. if the federal reserve and the fdic were to determine that a resolution plan submitted by jpmorgan chase has deficiencies, they could jointly impose more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements or restrictions on jpmorgan chase's growth, activities or operations. after two years, if the deficiencies are not cured, the agencies could also require that jpmorgan chase restructure, reorganize or divest assets or businesses in ways that could materially and adversely affect jpmorgan chase's operations and strategy. holders of jpmorgan chase &amp; co.'s debt and equity securities will absorb losses if it were to enter into a resolution. federal reserve rules require that jpmorgan chase &amp; co. (the parent company ) maintain minimum levels of unsecured external long-term debt and other loss-absorbing capacity with specific terms ( eligible ltd ) for purposes of recapitalizing jpmorgan chase's operating subsidiaries if the parent company were to enter into a resolution either: in a bankruptcy proceeding under chapter 11 of the u.s. bankruptcy code, or in a receivership administered by the fdic under title ii of the dodd-frank act ( title ii ). 8 if the parent company were to enter into a resolution, holders of eligible ltd and other debt and equity securities of the parent company will absorb the losses of the parent company and its subsidiaries. the preferred single point of entry strategy under jpmorgan chase's resolution plan contemplates that only the parent company would enter bankruptcy proceedings. jpmorgan chase's subsidiaries would be recapitalized, as needed, so that they could continue normal operations or subsequently be divested or wound down in an orderly manner. as a result, the parent company's losses and any losses incurred by its subsidiaries would be imposed first on holders of the parent company's equity securities and thereafter on its unsecured creditors, including holders of eligible ltd and other debt securities. claims of holders of those securities would have a junior position to the claims of creditors of jpmorgan chase's subsidiaries and to the claims of priority (as determined by statute) and secured creditors of the parent company. accordingly, in a resolution of the parent company in bankruptcy, holders of eligible ltd and other debt securities of the parent company would realize value only to the extent available to the parent company as a shareholder of jpmorgan chase bank, n.a. and its other subsidiaries, and only after any claims of priority and secured creditors of the parent company have been fully repaid. the fdic has similarly indicated that a single point of entry recapitalization model could be a desirable strategy to resolve a systemically important financial institution, such as the parent company, under title ii. however, the fdic has not formally adopted a single point of entry resolution strategy. if the parent company were to approach, or enter into, a resolution, none of the parent company, the federal reserve or the fdic is obligated to follow jpmorgan chase's preferred strategy, and losses to holders of eligible ltd and other debt and equity securities of the parent company, under whatever strategy is ultimately followed, could be greater than they might have been under jpmorgan chase's preferred strategy. political the departure of the u.k. from the eu could negatively affect jpmorgan chase's business, results of operations and operating model. it remains highly uncertain how the departure of the u.k. from the eu, which is commonly referred to as brexit, will affect financial services firms such as jpmorgan chase that conduct substantial operations in the eu from legal entities that are organized in or operating from the u.k. it is possible that the transition period following the u.k.'s departure from the eu on january 31, 2020 will expire on december 31, 2020 without any agreement having been reached between the u.k. and the eu concerning whether or to what extent u.k.-based firms may conduct financial services activities within the eu. it is also possible that any agreement reached between the u.k. and the eu may, depending on the final outcome of the ongoing negotiations and related legislative developments: impede the ability of u.k.-based financial services firms to conduct business in the eu fail to address significant unresolved issues relating to the cross-border conduct of financial services activities, or apply only temporarily. jpmorgan chase has been making appropriate modifications to its legal entity structure and operations in the eu, the locations in which it operates and the staffing in those locations to address the departure of the u.k. from the eu. if the u.k. and the eu fail to reach an agreement on their future relationship before the end of the transition period or if any other outcome persists that does not assure ongoing access for u.k.-based financial services firms to the eu market, the types of structural and operational changes that jpmorgan chase is in the process of making to its european operations may result in jpmorgan chase having to sustain a more fragmented operating model across its u.k., eu and other operating entities. due to considerations such as operating expenses, liquidity, leverage and capital, the modified european operating framework will be more complex, less efficient and more costly than would otherwise have been the case. a disorderly withdrawal of the u.k. from the eu, or unexpected consequences of the withdrawal, could have significant and immediate destabilizing effects on economic and market conditions in the region and globally. in particular, cross-border financial services activities could be severely disrupted depending on circumstances that may exist following the withdrawal, including: the possibility that financial institutions, their clients and counterparties, and other market participants may not be positioned to continue to do business through eu-based legal entities reduction or fragmentation of market liquidity that may be caused if significant market participants (including trading venues and ccps) that are currently based in the u.k. have not completed arrangements to conduct operations from the eu either in the near term or, if authorized to continue to operate from the u.k. on a transitional basis, after any transitional or temporary relief has expired uncertainties concerning the application and interpretation of laws and regulations relating to cross-border financial services activities inability to engage in certain financial services activities through eu-based legal entities to the extent that licenses or temporary permission to engage in such activities have not been granted timely by local regulators 9 part i unexpected or unfavorable changes in laws and regulations, governmental policies or public sentiment, and losses due to process errors or incorrect judgments concerning economic, political or regulatory developments. any or all of the above factors could have an adverse effect on the overall operation of the european financial services market as well as jpmorgan chase's business, operations and earnings in the u.k., the eu and globally. economic uncertainty or instability caused by political developments can hurt jpmorgan chase's businesses. the economic environment and market conditions in which jpmorgan chase operates continue to be uncertain due to political developments in the u.s. and other countries. certain monetary, fiscal and other policy initiatives and proposals could cause a contraction in u.s. and global economic growth and higher volatility in the financial markets, including: monetary and fiscal policies and actions taken by the federal reserve and other central banks or governmental authorities, including any suspension or reversal of large-scale asset purchases inability to reach political consensus to keep the u.s. government open isolationist foreign policies the implementation of tariffs and other protectionist trade policies political pressure on monetary policy decisions of central banks, or the possible withdrawal or reduction of government support for the federal national mortgage association and the federal home loan mortgage corporation (together, the u.s. gses ). these types of political developments, and uncertainty about the possible outcomes of these developments, could: erode investor confidence in the u.s. economy and financial markets, which could potentially undermine the status of the u.s. dollar as a safe haven currency provoke retaliatory countermeasures by other countries and otherwise heighten tensions in diplomatic relations increase concerns about whether the u.s. government will be funded, and its outstanding debt serviced, at any particular time, and result in periodic shutdowns of the u.s. government or governments in other countries. these factors could lead to: slower growth rates, rising inflation or recession greater market volatility a contraction of available credit and the widening of credit spreads diminished investor and consumer confidence lower investment growth large-scale sales of government debt and other debt and equity securities in the u.s. and other countries reduced commercial activity among trading partners the potential for a currency redenomination by a particular country the possible departure of a country from, or the dissolution of, a political or economic alliance or treaty potential expropriation or nationalization of assets other market dislocations, including the spread of unfavorable economic conditions from a particular country or region to other countries or regions. any of these potential outcomes could cause jpmorgan chase to suffer losses on its market-making positions or in its investment portfolio, reduce its liquidity and capital levels, hamper its ability to deliver products and services to its clients and customers, and weaken its results of operations and financial condition. market economic and market events and conditions can materially affect jpmorgan chase's businesses and investment and market-making positions. jpmorgan chase's results of operations can be negatively affected by adverse changes in any of the following: investor, consumer and business sentiment events that reduce confidence in the financial markets inflation or deflation high unemployment or, conversely, a tightening labor market the availability and cost of capital, liquidity and credit levels and volatility of interest rates (including overnight repo rates), credit spreads and market prices for currencies, equities and commodities, and the duration of any changes in levels or volatility the economic effects of outbreaks of hostilities, terrorism or other geopolitical instabilities, cyberattacks, climate change, natural disasters, severe weather conditions, health emergencies, the spread of infectious diseases or pandemics, and the health of the u.s. and global economies. all of these are affected by global economic, market and political events and conditions, as well as regulatory restrictions. 10 in addition, jpmorgan chase's investment portfolio and market-making businesses can suffer losses due to unanticipated market events, including: severe declines in asset values unexpected credit events unforeseen events or conditions that may cause previously uncorrelated factors to become correlated (and vice versa) the inability to effectively hedge market and other risks related to market-making position, or other market risks that may not have been appropriately taken into account in the development, structuring or pricing of a financial instrument. if jpmorgan chase experiences significant losses in its investment portfolio or from market-making activities, this could reduce jpmorgan chase's profitability and its liquidity and capital levels, and thereby constrain the growth of its businesses. jpmorgan chase's consumer businesses can be negatively affected by adverse economic conditions. jpmorgan chase's consumer businesses are particularly affected by u.s. and global economic conditions, including: interest rates the rates of inflation and unemployment housing prices the level of consumer and small business confidence changes in consumer spending or in the level of consumer debt, and the number of personal bankruptcies. a rapid increase in interest rates could negatively affect consumer credit performance to the extent that consumers are less able to service their debts. sustained low growth, low or negative interest rates, inflationary pressures or recessionary conditions could diminish customer demand for the products and services offered by jpmorgan chase's consumer businesses. these conditions could also increase the cost to provide those products and services. adverse economic conditions could also lead to an increase in delinquencies and higher net charge-offs, which can reduce jpmorgan chase's earnings. these consequences could be significantly worse in certain geographies where high levels of unemployment have resulted from declining industrial or manufacturing activity, or where high levels of consumer debt, such as outstanding student loans, impair the ability of customers to pay their other consumer loan obligations. jpmorgan chase's earnings from its consumer businesses could also be adversely affected by governmental policies and actions that affect consumers, including: policies and initiatives relating to medical insurance, education, immigration and employment status the inability to reach political consensus to keep the u.s. government open and funded, and policies aimed at the economy more broadly, such as infrastructure spending and global trade, which could result in higher inflation or reductions in consumer disposable income. in addition, governmental proposals to permit student loan obligations to be discharged in bankruptcy proceedings could, if enacted into law, encourage certain of jpmorgan chase's customers to declare personal bankruptcy and thereby trigger defaults and charge-offs of credit card and other consumer loans extended to those customers. unfavorable market and economic conditions can have an adverse effect on jpmorgan chase's wholesale businesses. in jpmorgan chase's wholesale businesses, market and economic factors can affect the volume of transactions that jpmorgan chase executes for its clients or for which it advises clients, and, therefore, the revenue that jpmorgan chase receives from those transactions. these factors can also influence the willingness of other financial institutions and investors to participate in capital markets transactions that jpmorgan chase manages, such as loan syndications or securities underwritings. furthermore, if a significant and sustained deterioration in market conditions were to occur, the profitability of jpmorgan chase's capital markets businesses, including its loan syndication, securities underwriting and leveraged lending activities, could be reduced to the extent that those businesses: earn less fee revenue due to lower transaction volumes, including when clients are unwilling or unable to refinance their outstanding debt obligations in unfavorable market conditions, or dispose of portions of credit commitments at a loss, or hold larger residual positions in credit commitments that cannot be sold at favorable prices. an adverse change in market conditions in particular segments of the economy, such as a sudden and severe downturn in oil and gas prices or an increase in commodity prices, could have a material adverse effect on clients of jpmorgan chase whose operations or financial condition are directly or indirectly dependent on the health or stability of those market segments, as well as clients that are engaged in related businesses. jpmorgan chase could incur losses on its loans and other credit commitments to clients that operate in, or are dependent on, any sector of the economy that is under stress. the fees that jpmorgan chase earns from managing client assets or holding assets under custody for clients could be diminished by declining asset values or other adverse macroeconomic conditions. for example, higher interest rates or a downturn in financial markets could affect the valuations of client assets that jpmorgan chase manages or holds under custody, which, in turn, could affect jpmorgan chase's revenue from fees that are based on the amount of assets under management or custody. similarly, adverse 11 part i macroeconomic or market conditions could prompt outflows from jpmorgan chase funds or accounts, or cause clients to invest in products that generate lower revenue. substantial and unexpected withdrawals from a jpmorgan chase fund can also hamper the investment performance of the fund, particularly if the outflows create the need for the fund to dispose of fund assets at disadvantageous times or prices, and could lead to further withdrawals based on the weaker investment performance. an economic downturn that results in lower consumer and business spending could also have a negative impact on certain of jpmorgan chase's wholesale clients, and thereby diminish jpmorgan chase's earnings from its wholesale operations. for example, the businesses of certain of jpmorgan chase's wholesale clients are dependent on consistent streams of rental income from commercial real estate properties which are owned or being built by those clients. severe and sustained adverse economic conditions could reduce the rental cash flows that owners or developers receive from those properties which, in turn, could depress the values of the properties and impair the ability of borrowers to service or refinance their commercial real estate loans. these consequences could result in jpmorgan chase experiencing higher delinquencies, defaults and write-offs within its commercial real estate loan portfolio and incurring higher costs for servicing a larger volume of delinquent loans in that portfolio, thereby reducing jpmorgan chase's earnings from its wholesale businesses. changes in interest rates and credit spreads can adversely affect certain of jpmorgan chase's revenue and income streams. jpmorgan chase can generally be expected to earn higher net interest income when interest rates are increasing. however, higher interest rates can also lead to: fewer originations of commercial and residential real estate loans losses on underwriting exposures the loss of deposits, including in the event that jpmorgan chase makes incorrect assumptions about depositor behavior lower net interest income if central banks introduce interest rate increases more quickly than anticipated and this results in a misalignment in the pricing of short-term and long-term borrowings less liquidity in the financial markets, and higher funding costs. all of these outcomes could adversely affect jpmorgan chase's revenues and its liquidity and capital levels. higher interest rates can also negatively affect the payment performance on loans within jpmorgan chase's consumer and wholesale loan portfolios that are linked to variable interest rates. if borrowers of variable rate loans are unable to afford higher interest payments, those borrowers may reduce or stop making payments, thereby causing jpmorgan chase to incur losses and increased operational costs related to servicing a higher volume of delinquent loans. on the other hand, a low or negative interest rate environment may cause: net interest margins to be compressed, which could reduce the amounts that jpmorgan chase earns on its investment portfolio to the extent that it is unable to reinvest contemporaneously in higher-yielding instruments unanticipated or adverse changes in depositor behavior, which could negatively affect jpmorgan chase's broader asset and liability management strategy, and a reduction in the value of jpmorgan chase's mortgage servicing rights ( msrs ) asset, thereby decreasing revenues. when credit spreads widen, it becomes more expensive for jpmorgan chase to borrow. jpmorgan chase's credit spreads may widen or narrow not only in response to events and circumstances that are specific to jpmorgan chase but also as a result of general economic and geopolitical events and conditions. changes in jpmorgan chase's credit spreads will affect, positively or negatively, jpmorgan chase's earnings on certain liabilities, such as derivatives, that are recorded at fair value. jpmorgan chase's results may be materially affected by market fluctuations and significant changes in the value of financial instruments. the value of securities, derivatives and other financial instruments which jpmorgan chase owns or in which it makes markets can be materially affected by market fluctuations. market volatility, illiquid market conditions and other disruptions in the financial markets may make it extremely difficult to value certain financial instruments, particularly during periods of market displacement. subsequent valuations of financial instruments in future periods, in light of factors then prevailing, may result in significant changes in the value of these instruments. in addition, at the time of any disposition of these financial instruments, the price that jpmorgan chase ultimately realizes will depend on the demand and liquidity in the market at that time and may be materially lower than their current fair value. any of these factors could cause a decline in the value of jpmorgan chase's financial instruments which may have an adverse effect on jpmorgan chase's results of operations. jpmorgan chase's risk management and monitoring processes, including its stress testing framework, seek to quantify and control jpmorgan chase's exposure to more extreme market moves. however, jpmorgan chase could realize significant losses if extreme market events were to occur. under extreme market conditions, hedging and other risk management strategies may not be as effective at 12 mitigating losses as they would be under more normal market conditions. credit jpmorgan chase can be adversely affected by the financial condition of clients, counterparties, custodians and ccps. jpmorgan chase routinely executes transactions with brokers and dealers, commercial and investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, investment managers and other types of financial institutions and market participants. many of these transactions expose jpmorgan chase to the credit risk of its clients and counterparties, and can involve jpmorgan chase in disputes and litigation if a client or counterparty defaults. jpmorgan chase can also be subject to losses or liability where a financial institution that it has appointed to provide custodial services for client assets or funds becomes insolvent as a result of fraud or the failure to abide by existing laws and obligations, including under the eu alternative investment fund managers directive. a default by, or the financial or operational failure of, a ccp through which jpmorgan chase executes contracts would require jpmorgan chase to replace those contracts, thereby increasing its operational costs and potentially resulting in losses. jpmorgan chase can also be exposed to losses if a member of a ccp in which jpmorgan chase is also a member defaults on its obligations to the ccp because of requirements that each member of the ccp absorb a portion of those losses. as part of its clearing services activities, jpmorgan chase is also exposed to the risk of nonperformance by its clients, which it seeks to mitigate by requiring clients to provide adequate collateral. jpmorgan chase is also exposed to intra-day credit risk of its clients in connection with providing cash management, clearing, custodial and other transaction services to those clients. if a client for which jpmorgan chase provides these services becomes bankrupt or insolvent, jpmorgan chase may incur losses, become involved in disputes and litigation with one or more ccps, the client's bankruptcy estate and other creditors, or be subject to regulatory investigations. all of the foregoing events can increase jpmorgan chase's operational and litigation costs, and jpmorgan chase may suffer losses to the extent that any collateral that it has received is insufficient to cover those losses. jpmorgan chase can also be subject to bearing its share of non-default losses incurred by a ccp, including losses from custodial, settlement or investment activities or due to cyber or other security breaches. disputes may arise with counterparties to derivatives contracts with regard to the terms, the settlement procedures or the value of underlying collateral. the disposition of those disputes could cause jpmorgan chase to incur unexpected transaction, operational and legal costs, or result in credit losses. these consequences can also impair jpmorgan chase's ability to effectively manage its credit risk exposure from its market activities, or cause harm to jpmorgan chase's reputation. the financial or operational failure of a significant market participant, such as a major financial institution or a ccp, or concerns about the creditworthiness of such a market participant, can have a cascading effect within the financial markets. jpmorgan chase's businesses could be significantly disrupted by such an event, particularly if it leads to other market participants incurring significant losses, experiencing liquidity issues or defaulting. jpmorgan chase is likely to have significant interrelationships with, and credit exposure to, such a significant market participant, and would seek to unwind or hedge positions in securities, derivatives and other obligations in multiple jurisdictions during a period of heightened market volatility. jpmorgan chase may suffer losses if the value of collateral declines in stressed market conditions. during periods of market stress or illiquidity, jpmorgan chase's credit risk may be further increased when jpmorgan chase cannot realize the fair value of the collateral held by it or when collateral is liquidated at prices that are not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan, derivative or other exposure due to it. furthermore, disputes with counterparties concerning the valuation of collateral may increase in times of significant market stress, volatility or illiquidity, and jpmorgan chase could suffer losses during these periods if it is unable to realize the fair value of collateral or to manage declines in the value of collateral. jpmorgan chase could incur significant losses arising from concentrations of credit and market risk. jpmorgan chase is exposed to greater credit and market risk to the extent that groupings of its clients or counterparties: engage in similar or related businesses, or in businesses in related industries do business in the same geographic region, or have business profiles, models or strategies that could cause their ability to meet their obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic conditions. for example, a significant deterioration in the credit quality of one of jpmorgan chase's borrowers or counterparties could lead to concerns about the creditworthiness of other borrowers or counterparties in similar, related or dependent industries. this type of interrelationship could exacerbate jpmorgan chase's credit, liquidity and market risk exposure and potentially cause it to incur losses, including fair value losses in its market-making businesses. similarly, challenging economic conditions that affect a particular industry or geographic area could lead to concerns about the credit quality of jpmorgan chase's borrowers or counterparties not only in that particular industry or geography but in related or dependent industries, wherever located. these conditions could also heighten concerns about the ability of customers of jpmorgan chase's consumer businesses who live in those areas or work in those affected industries or related or 13 part i dependent industries to meet their obligations to jpmorgan chase. jpmorgan chase regularly monitors various segments of its credit and market risk exposures to assess the potential risks of concentration or contagion, but its efforts to diversify or hedge its exposures against those risks may not be successful. jpmorgan chase's consumer businesses can also be harmed by an excessive expansion of consumer credit by bank or non-bank competitors. heightened competition for certain types of consumer loans could prompt industry-wide reactions such as significant reductions in the pricing or margins of those loans or the making of loans to less-creditworthy borrowers. if large numbers of consumers subsequently default on their loans, whether due to weak credit profiles, an economic downturn or other factors, this could impair their ability to repay obligations owed to jpmorgan chase and result in higher charge-offs and other credit-related losses. more broadly, widespread defaults on consumer debt could lead to recessionary conditions in the u.s. economy, and jpmorgan chase's consumer businesses may earn lower revenues in such an environment. if jpmorgan chase is unable to reduce positions effectively during a market dislocation, this can increase both the market and credit risks associated with those positions and the level of risk-weighted assets ( rwa ) that jpmorgan chase holds on its balance sheet. these factors could adversely affect jpmorgan chase's capital position, funding costs and the profitability of its businesses. liquidity liquidity is critical to jpmorgan chase's ability to operate its businesses. jpmorgan chase's liquidity could be impaired at any given time by factors such as: market-wide illiquidity or disruption unforeseen liquidity or capital requirements, including as a result of changes in laws, rules and regulations inability to sell assets, or to sell assets at favorable times or prices default by a ccp or other significant market participant unanticipated outflows of cash or collateral unexpected loss of consumer deposits caused by changes in consumer behavior, and lack of market or customer confidence in jpmorgan chase or financial institutions in general. a reduction in jpmorgan chase's liquidity may be caused by events over which it has little or no control. for example, during periods of market stress, low investor confidence and significant market illiquidity could result in higher funding costs for jpmorgan chase and could limit its access to some of its traditional sources of liquidity. there is no assurance that severe conditions of this type will not occur. jpmorgan chase may need to raise funding from alternative sources if its access to stable and lower-cost sources of funding, such as deposits and borrowings from federal home loan banks, is reduced. alternative sources of funding could be more expensive or limited in availability. jpmorgan chase's funding costs could also be negatively affected by actions that jpmorgan chase may take in order to: satisfy applicable liquidity coverage ratio and net stable funding ratio requirements address obligations under its resolution plan, or satisfy regulatory requirements in jurisdictions outside the u.s. relating to the pre-positioning of liquidity in subsidiaries that are material legal entities. more generally, if jpmorgan chase fails to effectively manage its liquidity, this could constrain its ability to fund or invest in its businesses and subsidiaries (including, in particular, its broker-dealer subsidiaries), and thereby adversely affect its results of operations. jpmorgan chase &amp; co. is a holding company and depends on the cash flows of its subsidiaries to make payments on its outstanding securities. jpmorgan chase &amp; co. is a holding company that holds the stock of jpmorgan chase bank, n.a. and an intermediate holding company, jpmorgan chase holdings llc (the ihc ). the ihc in turn holds the stock of substantially all of jpmorgan chase's subsidiaries other than jpmorgan chase bank, n.a. and its subsidiaries. the ihc also owns other assets and owes intercompany indebtedness to the holding company. the holding company is obligated to contribute to the ihc substantially all the net proceeds received from securities issuances (including issuances of senior and subordinated debt securities and of preferred and common stock). the ability of jpmorgan chase bank, n.a. and the ihc to make payments to the holding company is also limited. jpmorgan chase bank, n.a. is subject to restrictions on its dividend distributions, as well as capital adequacy and liquidity requirements and other regulatory restrictions on its ability to make payments to the holding company. the ihc is prohibited from paying dividends or extending credit to the holding company if certain capital or liquidity thresholds are breached or if limits are otherwise imposed by jpmorgan chase's management or board of directors. as a result of these arrangements, the ability of the holding company to make various payments is dependent on its receiving dividends from jpmorgan chase bank, n.a. and dividends and extensions of credit from the ihc. these limitations could affect the holding company's ability to: pay interest on its debt securities pay dividends on its equity securities redeem or repurchase outstanding securities, and 14 fulfill its other payment obligations. these regulatory restrictions and limitations could also result in the holding company seeking protection under bankruptcy laws at a time earlier than would have been the case absent the existence of the capital and liquidity thresholds to which the ihc is subject. reductions in jpmorgan chase's credit ratings may adversely affect its liquidity and cost of funding. jpmorgan chase &amp; co. and certain of its principal subsidiaries are rated by credit rating agencies. rating agencies evaluate both general and firm-specific and industry-specific factors when determining credit ratings for a particular financial institution, including: expected future profitability risk management practices legal expenses ratings differentials between bank holding companies and their bank and non-bank subsidiaries regulatory developments assumptions about government support, and economic and geopolitical trends. jpmorgan chase closely monitors and manages, to the extent that it is able, factors that could influence its credit ratings. however, there is no assurance that jpmorgan chase's credit ratings will not be lowered in the future. furthermore, any such downgrade could occur at times of broader market instability when jpmorgan chase's options for responding to events may be more limited and general investor confidence is low. a reduction in jpmorgan chase's credit ratings could curtail jpmorgan chase's business activities and reduce its profitability in a number of ways, including: reducing its access to capital markets materially increasing its cost of issuing and servicing securities triggering additional collateral or funding requirements, and decreasing the number of investors and counterparties that are willing or permitted to do business with or lend to jpmorgan chase. any rating reduction could also increase the credit spreads charged by the market for taking credit risk on jpmorgan chase &amp; co. and its subsidiaries. this could, in turn, adversely affect the value of debt and other obligations of jpmorgan chase &amp; co. and its subsidiaries. the reform and replacement of benchmark rates could adversely affect jpmorgan chase's funding, investments and financial products, and expose it to litigation and other disputes. interest rate, equity, foreign exchange rate and other types of indices which are deemed to be benchmarks, including those in widespread and long-standing use, have been the subject of ongoing international, national and other regulatory scrutiny and initiatives and proposals for reform. some of these reforms are already effective while others are still to be implemented or are under consideration. these reforms may cause benchmarks to perform differently than in the past, or to disappear entirely, or have other consequences which cannot be fully anticipated. any of the benchmark reforms which have been proposed or implemented, or the general increased regulatory scrutiny of benchmarks, could also increase the costs and risks of administering or otherwise participating in the setting of benchmarks and complying with regulations or requirements relating to benchmarks. such factors may have the effect of discouraging market participants from continuing to administer or contribute to certain benchmarks, trigger changes in the rules or methodologies used in certain benchmarks or lead to the disappearance of certain benchmarks. any of these developments, and any future initiatives to regulate, reform or change the administration of benchmarks, could result in adverse consequences to the return on, value of and market for loans, mortgages, securities, derivatives and other financial instruments whose returns are linked to any such benchmark, including those issued, funded, serviced or held by jpmorgan chase. various regulators, industry bodies and other market participants in the u.s. and other countries are engaged in initiatives to develop, introduce and encourage the use of alternative rates to replace certain benchmarks. there is no assurance that these new rates will be accepted or widely used by market participants, or that the characteristics of any of these new rates will be similar to, or produce the economic equivalent of, the benchmarks that they seek to replace. if a particular benchmark were to be discontinued and an alternative rate has not been successfully introduced to replace that benchmark, this could result in widespread dislocation in the financial markets, engender volatility in the pricing of securities, derivatives and other instruments, and suppress capital markets activities, all of which could have adverse effects on jpmorgan chase's results of operations. in addition, to the extent that appropriate relief is not provided by accounting standard setters with respect to the transition from benchmark rates, the transition could: affect hedge accounting relationships between financial instruments linked to a particular benchmark and any related derivatives, which could adversely affect jpmorgan chase's results of operations, or increase jpmorgan chase's operational costs with respect to the determination of whether the transition 15 part i has resulted in the modification or extinguishment of specific contracts for accounting purposes. representatives of the u.k. financial conduct authority (the fca ), which regulates the london interbank offered rate ( libor ), have made a series of public statements during the past several years to the effect that: the fca will no longer persuade or compel banks to submit rates for the calculation of the libor benchmark after 2021, and once a significant number of banks are no longer submitting such rates, the fca may make a determination under applicable regulations that the libor benchmark may not meet the standards required under those regulations for use as a benchmark. these statements indicate that it is highly likely that libor will be discontinued on or about the end of 2021. vast amounts of loans, mortgages, securities, derivatives and other financial instruments are linked to the libor benchmark, and any inability of market participants and regulators to successfully introduce benchmark rates to replace libor and implement effective transitional arrangements to address the discontinuation of libor could result in disruption in the financial markets and suppress capital markets activities, all of which could have a negative impact on jpmorgan chase's results of operations and on libor-linked securities, credit or other instruments which are issued, funded, serviced or held by jpmorgan chase. jpmorgan chase could also become involved in litigation and other types of disputes with clients, customers, counterparties and investors as a consequence of the transition from libor and other benchmark rates to replacement rates, including claims that jpmorgan chase has: treated clients, customers, counterparties or investors unfairly, or caused them to experience losses, higher financing costs or lower returns on investments failed to appropriately communicate the effects of the transition from benchmark rates on the products that jpmorgan chase has sold to its clients and customers, or failed to disclose purported conflicts of interest made inappropriate product recommendations to or investments on behalf of its clients, or sold products that did not serve their intended purpose, in connection with the transition from benchmark rates engaged in anti-competitive behavior, or in the manipulation of markets or specific benchmarks, in connection with the discontinuation of or transition from benchmark rates, or disadvantaged clients, customers, counterparties or investors when interpreting or making determinations under the terms of agreements or financial instruments. these types of claims could subject jpmorgan chase to higher legal expenses and operational costs, require it to pay significant amounts in connection with resolving litigation and other disputes, and harm its reputation. capital maintaining the appropriate level and composition of capital is critical to support jpmorgan chase's business activities, meet regulatory requirements and distribute capital to shareholders. jpmorgan chase is subject to various regulatory capital requirements, and although many of these requirements have been finalized, prudential regulators have recently issued new regulatory capital proposals, and continued uncertainty remains as to the manner in which these requirements ultimately will apply to jpmorgan chase. as a result, it is possible that these requirements could limit jpmorgan chase's ability to support its businesses and make capital distributions to its shareholders. jpmorgan chase is required to submit, on an annual basis, a capital plan describing proposed dividend payments to shareholders, redemptions and repurchases of its outstanding securities and other capital actions that it intends to take. jpmorgan chase considers various factors in the management of capital, including the impact of stress on its capital levels, as determined by both internal modeling and the federal reserve's modeling of jpmorgan chase's capital position in supervisory stress tests and ccar. because the federal reserve and jpmorgan chase use different forecasting models and methodologies when determining stress test results, there can be significant differences between the estimates of stress loss as determined by the federal reserve and jpmorgan chase, respectively. the federal reserve may object to or require modifications to jpmorgan chase's capital plan, or jpmorgan chase may otherwise modify its capital plan, and any such modification could have an adverse effect on jpmorgan chase's shareholders, including by: constraining the amount of dividends that may be paid on common stock reducing the amount of common stock that jpmorgan chase is permitted to repurchase requiring the issuance of, or prohibiting the redemption of, capital instruments in a manner inconsistent with jpmorgan chase's capital management strategy curtailing jpmorgan chase's business activities or operations, or damaging jpmorgan chase's reputation. 16 operational jpmorgan chase's businesses are highly dependent on the effectiveness of its operational systems and those of other market participants. jpmorgan chase's businesses rely comprehensively on the ability of jpmorgan chase's financial, accounting, transaction execution, data processing and other operational systems to process, record, monitor and report a large number of transactions on a continuous basis, and to do so accurately, quickly and securely. in addition to proper design, installation, maintenance and training, the effective functioning of jpmorgan chase's operational systems depends on: the quality of the information contained in those systems, as inaccurate, outdated or corrupted data can significantly compromise the functionality or reliability of a particular system and other systems to which it transmits or from which it receives information, and jpmorgan chase's ability to appropriately maintain and upgrade its systems on a regular basis, and to ensure that any changes introduced to its systems are managed carefully to ensure security and operational continuity and adhere to all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. jpmorgan chase also depends on its ability to access and use the operational systems of its vendors, custodians and other market participants, including clearing and payment systems, ccps, securities exchanges and data processing, security and technology companies. the ineffectiveness, failure or other disruption of operational systems upon which jpmorgan chase depends, including due to a systems malfunction, cyberbreach or other systems failure, could result in unfavorable ripple effects in the financial markets and for jpmorgan chase and its clients and customers, including: delays or other disruptions in providing information, services and liquidity to clients and customers the inability to settle transactions or obtain access to funds and other assets, including those for which physical settlement and delivery is required failure to timely settle or confirm transactions the possibility that funds transfers, capital markets trades or other transactions are executed erroneously, illegally or with unintended consequences financial losses, including due to loss-sharing requirements of ccps, payment systems or other market infrastructures, or as possible restitution to clients and customers higher operational costs associated with replacing services provided by a system that is unavailable client or customer dissatisfaction with jpmorgan chase's products and services loss of confidence in the ability of jpmorgan chase, or financial institutions generally, to protect against and withstand operational disruptions, or harm to jpmorgan chase's reputation. as the speed, frequency, volume, interconnectivity and complexity of transactions continue to increase, it becomes more challenging to effectively maintain and upgrade jpmorgan chase's operational systems and infrastructure, especially due to the heightened risks that: errors made by jpmorgan chase or another market participant, whether inadvertent or malicious, cause widespread system disruption isolated or seemingly insignificant errors in operational systems compound, or migrate to other systems over time, to become larger issues failures in synchronization or encryption software, or degraded performance of microprocessors due to design flaws, could cause disruptions in operational systems, or the inability of systems to communicate with each other, and third parties may attempt to block the use of key technology solutions by claiming that the use infringes on their intellectual property rights. if jpmorgan chase's operational systems, or those of external parties on which jpmorgan chase's businesses depend, are unable to meet the demanding standards of jpmorgan chase's businesses and operations, or if they fail or have other significant shortcomings, jpmorgan chase could be materially and adversely affected. jpmorgan chase can be negatively affected if it fails to identify and address operational risks associated with the introduction of or changes to products, services and delivery platforms. when jpmorgan chase launches a new product or service, introduces a new platform for the delivery or distribution of products or services (including mobile connectivity, electronic trading and cloud computing), or makes changes to an existing product, service or delivery platform, it may not fully appreciate or identify new operational risks that may arise from those changes, or may fail to implement adequate controls to mitigate the risks associated with those changes. any significant failure in this regard could diminish jpmorgan chase's ability to operate one or more of its businesses or result in: potential liability to clients, counterparties and customers increased operating expenses higher litigation costs, including regulatory fines, penalties and other sanctions damage to jpmorgan chase's reputation impairment of jpmorgan chase's liquidity 17 part i regulatory intervention, or weaker competitive standing. any of the foregoing consequences could materially and adversely affect jpmorgan chase's businesses and results of operations. jpmorgan chase's connections to external operational systems expose it to greater operational risks. external operational systems with which jpmorgan is connected, whether directly or indirectly, can be sources of operational risk to jpmorgan chase. jpmorgan chase may be exposed not only to a systems failure that may be experienced by a vendor or market infrastructure with which jpmorgan chase is directly connected, but also to a systems breakdown of another party to which such a vendor or infrastructure is connected. similarly, retailers, data aggregators and other external parties with which jpmorgan chase's customers do business can increase jpmorgan chase's operational risk. this is particularly the case where activities of customers or those parties are beyond jpmorgan chase's security and control systems, including through the use of the internet, cloud computing services and personal smart phones and other mobile devices or services. if an external party obtains access to customer account data on jpmorgan chase's systems, and that party experiences a cyberbreach of its own systems or misappropriates that data, this could result in a variety of negative outcomes for jpmorgan chase and its clients and customers, including: heightened risk that external parties will be able to execute fraudulent transactions using jpmorgan chase's systems losses from fraudulent transactions, as well as potential liability for losses that exceed thresholds established in consumer protection laws and regulations increased operational costs to remediate the consequences of the external party's security breach, and harm to reputation arising from the perception that jpmorgan chase's systems may not be secure. as jpmorgan chase's interconnectivity with clients, customers and other external parties expands, jpmorgan chase increasingly faces the risk of operational failure with respect to the systems of those parties. security breaches affecting jpmorgan chase's clients or customers, or systems breakdowns or failures, security breaches or human error or misconduct affecting other external parties, may require jpmorgan chase to take steps to protect the integrity of its own operational systems or to safeguard confidential information, including restricting the access of customers to their accounts. these actions can increase jpmorgan chase's operational costs and potentially diminish customer satisfaction and confidence in jpmorgan chase. furthermore, the widespread and expanding interconnectivity among financial institutions, central agents, ccps, payment processors, securities exchanges, clearing houses and other financial market infrastructures increases the risk that an operational failure at one institution or entity may cause an industry-wide operational failure that could materially affect jpmorgan chase's ability to conduct business. jpmorgan chase's operations depend on the competence and integrity of its employees and those of external parties. jpmorgan chase's ability to operate its businesses efficiently and profitably, to offer products and services that meet the expectations of its clients and customers, and to maintain an effective risk management framework is highly dependent on the competence and integrity of its employees, as well as employees of other parties on which jpmorgan chase's operations rely, including vendors, custodians and financial markets infrastructures. jpmorgan chase's businesses could be materially and adversely affected by: the ineffective implementation of business decisions any failure to institute controls that appropriately address risks associated with business activities, or to appropriately train employees with respect to those risks and controls a significant operational breakdown or failure, theft, fraud or other unlawful conduct, or other negative outcomes caused by human error or misconduct by an employee of jpmorgan chase or of another party on which jpmorgan chase's operations depend. jpmorgan chase faces substantial legal and operational risks in safeguarding personal information. jpmorgan chase's businesses are subject to complex and evolving laws and regulations, both within and outside the u.s., governing the privacy and protection of personal information of individuals. the protected parties can include: jpmorgan chase's clients and customers, and prospective clients and customers clients and customers of jpmorgan chase's clients and customers employees and prospective employees, and employees of jpmorgan chase's vendors, counterparties and other external parties. ensuring that jpmorgan chase's collection, use, transfer and storage of personal information comply with all applicable laws and regulations in all relevant jurisdictions, including where the laws of different jurisdictions are in conflict, can: increase jpmorgan chase's compliance and operating costs 18 hinder the development of new products or services, curtail the offering of existing products or services, or affect how products and services are offered to clients and customers demand significant oversight by jpmorgan chase's management, and require jpmorgan chase to structure its businesses, operations and systems in less efficient ways. furthermore, jpmorgan chase cannot ensure that all of its clients and customers, vendors, counterparties and other external parties have appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the information exchanged between them and jpmorgan chase, particularly where information is transmitted by electronic means. jpmorgan chase could be exposed to litigation or regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions if personal, confidential or proprietary information of clients, customers, employees or others were to be mishandled or misused, such as situations where such information is: erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the information, or intercepted or otherwise compromised by third parties. concerns regarding the effectiveness of jpmorgan chase's measures to safeguard personal information, or even the perception that those measures are inadequate, could cause jpmorgan chase to lose existing or potential clients and customers, and thereby reduce jpmorgan chase's revenues. furthermore, any failure or perceived failure by jpmorgan chase to comply with applicable privacy or data protection laws and regulations may subject it to inquiries, examinations and investigations that could result in requirements to modify or cease certain operations or practices, significant liabilities or regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions. any of these could damage jpmorgan chase's reputation and otherwise adversely affect its businesses. in recent years, well-publicized allegations involving the misuse or inappropriate sharing of personal information have led to expanded governmental scrutiny of practices relating to the safeguarding of personal information and the use or sharing of personal data by companies in the u.s. and other countries. that scrutiny has in some cases resulted in, and could in the future lead to, the adoption of stricter laws and regulations relating to the use and sharing of personal information. these types of laws and regulations could prohibit or significantly restrict financial services firms such as jpmorgan chase from sharing information among affiliates or with third parties such as vendors, and thereby increase compliance costs, or could restrict jpmorgan chase's use of personal data when developing or offering products or services to customers. these restrictions could also inhibit jpmorgan chase's development or marketing of certain products or services, or increase the costs of offering them to customers. a successful cyberattack against jpmorgan chase could cause significant harm to jpmorgan chase or its clients and customers. jpmorgan chase experiences numerous cyberattacks on its computer systems, software, networks and other technology assets on a daily basis from various actors, including cyber-criminals and hacktivists (i.e., individuals or groups that use technology to promote a political agenda or social change). these cyberattacks can take many forms, but a common objective of many of these attacks is to introduce computer viruses or malware into jpmorgan chase's systems. these viruses or malicious code are typically designed to: obtain unauthorized access to confidential information belonging to jpmorgan chase or its clients, customers, counterparties or employees manipulate or destroy data disrupt, sabotage or degrade service on jpmorgan chase's systems, or steal money. jpmorgan chase has also experienced significant distributed denial-of-service attacks which are intended to disrupt online banking services. jpmorgan chase devotes significant resources to maintain and regularly upgrade its systems to protect them against cyberattacks. however, jpmorgan chase has experienced security breaches due to cyberattacks in the past, and it is inevitable that additional breaches will occur in the future. any such breach could result in serious and harmful consequences for jpmorgan chase or its clients and customers. a principal reason that jpmorgan chase cannot provide absolute security against cyberattacks is that it may not always be possible to anticipate, detect or recognize threats to jpmorgan chase's systems, or to implement effective preventive measures against all breaches. this is because: the techniques used in cyberattacks change frequently and are increasingly sophisticated, and therefore may not be recognized until launched cyberattacks can originate from a wide variety of sources, including third parties who are or may be involved in organized crime or linked to terrorist organizations or hostile countries, or whose objective is to disrupt the operations of financial institutions more generally jpmorgan chase does not have control over the cybersecurity of the systems of the large number of clients, customers, counterparties and third-party service providers with which it does business third parties may seek to gain access to jpmorgan chase's systems either directly or using equipment or security passwords belonging to employees, customers, 19 part i third-party service providers or other users of jpmorgan chase's systems, and it is possible that a third party, after establishing a foothold on an internal network without being detected, might obtain access to other networks and systems. the risk of a security breach due to a cyberattack could increase in the future as jpmorgan chase continues to expand its mobile banking and other internet-based product offerings and its internal use of internet-based products and applications. a successful penetration or circumvention of the security of jpmorgan chase's systems or the systems of a vendor, governmental body or another market participant could cause serious negative consequences, including: significant disruption of jpmorgan chase's operations and those of its clients, customers and counterparties, including losing access to operational systems misappropriation of confidential information of jpmorgan chase or that of its clients, customers, counterparties, employees or regulators damage to computers or systems of jpmorgan chase and those of its clients, customers and counterparties inability to fully recover and restore data that has been stolen, manipulated or destroyed, or to prevent systems from processing fraudulent transactions violations by jpmorgan chase of applicable privacy and other laws financial loss to jpmorgan chase or to its clients, customers, counterparties or employees loss of confidence in jpmorgan chase's cybersecurity measures dissatisfaction among jpmorgan chase's clients, customers or counterparties significant exposure to litigation and regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions, and harm to jpmorgan chase's reputation. jpmorgan chase could also suffer some of the above consequences if a third party were to misappropriate confidential information obtained by intercepting signals or communications from mobile devices used by jpmorgan chase's employees. the extent of a particular cyberattack and the steps that jpmorgan chase may need to take to investigate the attack may not be immediately clear, and it may take a significant amount of time before such an investigation can be completed. while such an investigation is ongoing, jpmorgan chase may not necessarily know the full extent of the harm caused by the cyberattack, and that damage may continue to spread. these factors may inhibit jpmorgan chase's ability to provide full and reliable information about the cyberattack to its clients, customers, counterparties and regulators, as well as the public. furthermore, it may not be clear how best to contain and remediate the harm caused by the cyberattack, and certain errors or actions could be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and remediated. any or all of these factors could further increase the costs and consequences of a cyberattack. jpmorgan chase's operations, results and reputation could be harmed by catastrophes or other events. jpmorgan chase's business and operational systems could be seriously disrupted, and its reputation could be harmed, by events or contributing factors that are wholly or partially beyond its control, including: cyberbreaches or breaches of physical premises, including data centers power, telecommunications or internet outages failures of, or loss of access to, operational systems, including computer systems, servers, networks and other technology assets damage to or loss of property or assets of jpmorgan chase or third parties, and any consequent injuries, including in connection with any construction projects undertaken by jpmorgan chase effects of climate change natural disasters or severe weather conditions accidents such as explosions or structural failures health emergencies, the spread of infectious diseases or pandemics, or events arising from local or larger-scale political events, including outbreaks of hostilities or terrorist acts. jpmorgan chase maintains a firmwide resiliency program that is intended to enable it to recover critical business functions and supporting assets, including staff, technology and facilities, in the event of a business interruption. there can be no assurance that jpmorgan chase's resiliency plans will fully mitigate all potential business continuity risks to jpmorgan chase or its clients and customers. in particular, jpmorgan chase's ability to respond effectively to a business interruption could be hampered to the extent that the members of its workforce, physical assets or systems and other support infrastructure needed to address the event are geographically dispersed, or conversely, if a catastrophic event occurs in an area in which a critical segment of jpmorgan chase's workforce, physical assets or systems and other support infrastructure is concentrated. in addition, should emergency or catastrophic events such as severe or abnormal weather conditions become more chronic, the disruptive effects of those events on jpmorgan chase's business and operations, and on its clients, customers, counterparties and employees, could become more significant and long-lasting. 20 any significant failure or disruption of jpmorgan chase's operations or operational systems, or any catastrophic event, could: hinder jpmorgan chase's ability to provide services to its clients and customers or to transact with its counterparties require it to expend significant resources to correct the failure or disruption cause it to incur losses or liabilities, including from loss of revenue, damage to or loss of property, or injuries expose it to litigation or regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions, and harm its reputation. jpmorgan chase's risk management framework may not be effective in identifying and mitigating every risk to jpmorgan chase. any inadequacy or lapse in jpmorgan chase's risk management framework, governance structure, practices, models or reporting systems could expose it to unexpected losses, and its financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, any such inadequacy or lapse could: require significant resources to remediate attract heightened regulatory scrutiny expose jpmorgan chase to regulatory investigations or legal proceedings subject it to litigation or regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions harm its reputation, or otherwise diminish confidence in jpmorgan chase. jpmorgan chase relies on data to assess its various risk exposures. any deficiencies in the quality or effectiveness of jpmorgan chase's data gathering and validation processes could result in ineffective risk management practices. these deficiencies could also result in inaccurate risk reporting. many of jpmorgan chase's risk management strategies and techniques consider historical market behavior. these strategies and techniques are based to some degree on management's subjective judgment. for example, many models used by jpmorgan chase are based on assumptions regarding historical correlations among prices of various asset classes or other market indicators. in times of market stress, including difficult or less liquid market environments, or in the event of other unforeseen circumstances, previously uncorrelated indicators may become correlated. conversely, previously-correlated indicators may make unrelated movements at those times. sudden market movements and unanticipated or unidentified market or economic movements could, in some circumstances, limit the effectiveness of jpmorgan chase's risk management strategies, causing it to incur losses. jpmorgan chase could incur significant losses, its capital levels could be reduced and it could face greater regulatory scrutiny if its models or estimations prove to be inadequate. jpmorgan chase has developed and uses a variety of models and other analytical and judgment-based estimations to measure, monitor and implement controls over its market, credit, liquidity, operational and other risks. these models and estimations are based on a variety of assumptions and historical trends, and are periodically reviewed and modified as necessary. the models and estimations that jpmorgan chase uses may not be effective in all cases to identify, observe and mitigate risk due to a variety of factors, such as: reliance on historical trends that may not accurately predict future events, including assumptions underlying the models and estimations which predict correlation among certain market indicators or asset prices inherent limitations associated with forecasting uncertain economic and financial outcomes historical trend information may be incomplete, or may not anticipate severely negative market conditions such as extreme volatility, dislocation or lack of liquidity technology that is introduced to run models or estimations may not perform as expected, or may not be well understood by the personnel using the technology models and estimations may contain erroneous data, valuations, formulas or algorithms, and review processes may fail to detect flaws in models and estimations. some of the models and other analytical and judgment-based estimations used by jpmorgan chase in managing risks are subject to review by, and require the approval of, jpmorgan chase's regulators. these reviews are required before jpmorgan chase may use those models and estimations in connection with calculating market risk rwa, credit risk rwa and operational risk rwa under basel iii. if jpmorgan chase's models or estimations are not approved by its regulators, it may be subject to higher capital charges, which could adversely affect its financial results or limit the ability to expand its businesses. jpmorgan chase's capital actions could also be constrained if a ccar submission is not approved by its banking regulators due to the perceived inadequacy of its models or estimations. enhanced regulatory and other standards for the oversight of vendors and other service providers can result in higher costs and other potential exposures. jpmorgan chase must comply with enhanced regulatory and other standards associated with doing business with vendors and other service providers, including standards relating to the outsourcing of functions as well as the performance of significant banking and other functions by subsidiaries. jpmorgan chase incurs significant costs and 21 part i expenses in connection with its initiatives to address the risks associated with oversight of its internal and external service providers. jpmorgan chase's failure to appropriately assess and manage these relationships, especially those involving significant banking functions, shared services or other critical activities, could materially adversely affect jpmorgan chase. specifically, any such failure could result in: potential liability to clients and customers regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions lower revenues, and the opportunity cost from lost revenues increased operational costs, or harm to jpmorgan chase's reputation. jpmorgan chase could incur unexpected losses if estimates and judgments underlying its financial statements are incorrect. under u.s. generally accepted accounting principles ( u.s. gaap ), jpmorgan chase is required to use estimates and apply judgments in preparing its financial statements, including in determining the allowance for credit losses and reserves related to litigation. certain financial instruments require a determination of their fair value in order to prepare jpmorgan chase's financial statements, including: trading assets and liabilities instruments in the investment portfolio certain loans msrs structured notes, and certain repurchase and resale agreements. where quoted market prices are not available for these types of financial instruments, jpmorgan chase may make fair value determinations based on internally developed models or other means which ultimately rely to some degree on management estimates and judgment, and these types of estimates and judgments may not prove to be accurate due to a variety of factors, as noted above. in addition, sudden illiquidity in markets or declines in prices of certain loans and securities may make it more difficult to value certain financial instruments, which could lead to valuations being subsequently changed or adjusted. if estimates or judgments underlying jpmorgan chase's financial statements prove to have been incorrect, jpmorgan chase may experience material losses. jpmorgan chase establishes an allowance for expected credit losses that are inherent in its credit exposures. it then employs stress testing and other techniques to determine the amounts of capital and liquidity that would be needed in the event of adverse economic or market events. these processes are critical to jpmorgan chase's results of operations and financial condition. they require difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of how economic conditions might impair the ability of jpmorgan chase's borrowers and counterparties to repay their loans or other obligations. it is possible that jpmorgan chase will fail to identify the proper factors or that it will fail to accurately estimate the impact of factors that it identifies. lapses in controls over disclosure or financial reporting could materially affect jpmorgan chase's profitability or reputation. there can be no assurance that jpmorgan chase's disclosure controls and procedures will be effective in every circumstance, or that a material weakness or significant deficiency in internal control over financial reporting will not occur. any such lapses or deficiencies could: materially and adversely affect jpmorgan chase's business and results of operations or financial condition restrict its ability to access the capital markets require it to expend significant resources to correct the lapses or deficiencies expose it to litigation or regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions harm its reputation, or otherwise diminish investor confidence in jpmorgan chase. jpmorgan chase could be adversely affected by changes in accounting standards or policies. the preparation of jpmorgan chase's financial statements is based on accounting standards established by the financial accounting standards board and the securities and exchange commission, as well as more detailed accounting policies established by jpmorgan chase's management. from time to time these accounting standards or accounting policies may change, and in some cases these changes could have a significant effect on jpmorgan chase's financial statements and may adversely affect its financial results or investor perceptions of those results. as of january 1, 2020, jpmorgan chase has implemented a new accounting standard, commonly referred to as the current expected credit losses ( cecl ) framework, which requires earlier recognition of expected credit losses on loans and certain other instruments. the allowance for credit losses related to jpmorgan chase's loans and other lending-related commitments increased as a result of the implementation of cecl, which has a negative impact on jpmorgan chase's capital levels. the ongoing impact of the adoption of cecl could include the following, each of which could result in diminished investor confidence: greater volatility in jpmorgan chase's earnings and capital levels over economic cycles 22 potential reductions in its capital distributions, or unexpected increases in the allowance for credit losses. in addition, jpmorgan chase could be adversely impacted by associated changes in the competitive environment in which it operates, including changes in the availability or pricing of loan products, particularly during periods of economic stress, as well as changes related to non-u.s. financial institutions or other competitors that are not subject to this accounting standard. strategic if jpmorgan chase's management fails to develop and execute effective business strategies, and to anticipate changes affecting those strategies, jpmorgan chase's competitive standing and results could suffer. jpmorgan chase's business strategies significantly affect its competitive standing and operations. these strategies relate to: the products and services that jpmorgan chase offers the geographies in which it operates the types of clients and customers that it serves the counterparties with which it does business, and the methods and distribution channels by which it offers products and services. if management makes choices about these strategies and goals that prove to be incorrect, do not accurately assess the competitive landscape and industry trends, or fail to address changing regulatory and market environments, then the franchise values and growth prospects of jpmorgan chase's businesses may suffer and its earnings could decline. jpmorgan chase's growth prospects also depend on management's ability to develop and execute effective business plans to address these strategic priorities, both in the near term and over longer time horizons. management's effectiveness in this regard will affect jpmorgan chase's ability to develop and enhance its resources, control expenses and return capital to shareholders. each of these objectives could be adversely affected by any failure on the part of management to: devise effective business plans and strategies offer products and services that meet changing expectations of clients and customers allocate capital in a manner that promotes long-term stability to enable jpmorgan chase to build and invest in market-leading businesses, even in a highly stressed environment allocate capital appropriately due to imprecise modeling or subjective judgments made in connection with those allocations appropriately address shareholder concerns react quickly to changes in market conditions or market structures, or develop and enhance the operational, technology, risk, financial and managerial resources necessary to grow and manage jpmorgan chase's businesses. additionally, jpmorgan chase's board of directors plays an important role in exercising appropriate oversight of management's significant strategic decisions, and a failure by the board to perform this function could also impair jpmorgan chase's results of operations. jpmorgan chase faces significant and increasing competition in the rapidly evolving financial services industry. jpmorgan chase operates in a highly competitive environment in which it must evolve and adapt to the significant changes as a result of financial regulatory reform, technological advances, increased public scrutiny and current economic conditions. jpmorgan chase expects that competition in the u.s. and global financial services industry will continue to be intense. competitors include: other banks and financial institutions trading, advisory and investment management firms finance companies and technology companies, and other nonbank firms that are engaged in providing similar products and services. jpmorgan chase cannot provide assurance that the significant competition in the financial services industry will not materially and adversely affect its future results of operations. new competitors in the financial services industry continue to emerge. for example, technological advances and the growth of e-commerce have made it possible for non-depository institutions to offer products and services that traditionally were banking products. these advances have also allowed financial institutions and other companies to provide electronic and internet-based financial solutions, including electronic securities trading, payments processing and online automated algorithmic-based investment advice. furthermore, both financial institutions and their non-banking competitors face the risk that payments processing and other services could be significantly disrupted by technologies, such as cryptocurrencies, that require no intermediation. new technologies have required and could require jpmorgan chase to spend more to modify or adapt its products to attract and retain clients and customers or to match products and services offered by its competitors, including technology companies. in addition, new technologies may be used by customers, or breached or infiltrated by third parties, in unexpected ways, which can increase jpmorgan chase's costs for complying with laws and regulations that apply to the offering of products and services through those technologies and reduce the income 23 part i that jpmorgan chase earns from providing products and services through those new technologies. ongoing or increased competition may put pressure on the pricing for jpmorgan chase's products and services or may cause jpmorgan chase to lose market share, particularly with respect to traditional banking products such as deposits and bank accounts. this competition may be on the basis of quality and variety of products and services offered, transaction execution, innovation, reputation and price. the failure of any of jpmorgan chase's businesses to meet the expectations of clients and customers, whether due to general market conditions, under-performance, a decision not to offer a particular product or service, changes in client and customer expectations or other factors, could affect jpmorgan chase's ability to attract or retain clients and customers. any such impact could, in turn, reduce jpmorgan chase's revenues. increased competition also may require jpmorgan chase to make additional capital investments in its businesses, or to extend more of its capital on behalf of its clients in order to remain competitive. climate change could have a material adverse impact on jpmorgan chase's business operations, clients and customers. jpmorgan chase operates in many regions, countries and communities around the world where its businesses, and the activities of its clients and customers, could be disrupted by climate change. potential physical risks from climate change may include: altered distribution and intensity of rainfall prolonged droughts or flooding increased frequency of wildfires rising sea levels rising heat index in addition, these physical changes may prompt changes in regulations or consumer preferences which in turn could have negative consequences for the business models of jpmorgan chase's clients. these climate driven changes could have a material adverse impact on asset values and the financial performance of jpmorgan chase's businesses, and those of its clients and customers. conduct conduct failure by jpmorgan chase employees can harm clients and customers, impact market integrity, damage jpmorgan chase's reputation and trigger litigation and regulatory action. jpmorgan chase's employees interact with clients, customers and counterparties, and with each other, every day. all employees are expected to demonstrate values and exhibit the behaviors that are an integral part of jpmorgan chase's how we do business principles, including jpmorgan chase's commitment to do first class business in a first class way. jpmorgan chase endeavors to embed conduct risk management throughout an employee's life cycle, including recruiting, onboarding, training and development, and performance management. conduct risk management is also an integral component of jpmorgan chase's promotion and compensation processes. notwithstanding these expectations, policies and practices, certain employees have in the past engaged in improper or illegal conduct, and these instances of misconduct have resulted in litigation as well as resolutions of governmental investigations or enforcement actions involving consent orders, deferred prosecution agreements, non-prosecution agreements and other civil or criminal sanctions. there is no assurance that further inappropriate or unlawful actions by employees will not occur or that any such actions will always be detected, deterred or prevented. jpmorgan chase's reputation could be harmed, and collateral consequences could result, from a failure by one or more employees to act consistently with jpmorgan chase's expectations, policies and practices, including by acting in ways that harm clients, customers, other market participants or other employees. some examples of this include: improperly selling and marketing jpmorgan chase's products or services engaging in insider trading, market manipulation or unauthorized trading facilitating illegal or aggressive tax-motivated transactions, or transactions designed to circumvent economic sanction programs failing to fulfill fiduciary obligations or other duties owed to clients or customers violating anti-trust or anti-competition laws by colluding with other market participants to manipulate markets, prices or indices engaging in discriminatory behavior or harassment making risk decisions in ways that subordinate jpmorgan chase's risk appetite to employee compensation objectives, and misappropriating property, confidential or proprietary information, or technology assets belonging to jpmorgan chase, its clients and customers or third parties. the consequences of any failure by employees to act consistently with jpmorgan chase's expectations, policies or practices could include litigation, or regulatory or other governmental investigations or enforcement actions. any of these proceedings or actions could result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other sanctions, or lead to: financial losses increased operational and compliance costs 24 greater scrutiny by regulators and other parties regulatory actions that require jpmorgan chase to restructure, curtail or cease certain of its activities the need for significant oversight by jpmorgan chase's management loss of clients or customers, and harm to jpmorgan chase's reputation. reputation damage to jpmorgan chase's reputation could harm its businesses. maintaining trust in jpmorgan chase is critical to its ability to attract and retain clients, customers, investors and employees. damage to jpmorgan chase's reputation can therefore cause significant harm to jpmorgan chase's business and prospects. harm to jpmorgan chase's reputation can arise from numerous sources, including: employee misconduct, including discriminatory behavior or harassment security breaches, including cyberattacks failure to safeguard client, customer or employee information failure to manage environmental, social and sustainability risk issues associated with its business activities or those of its clients compliance or operational failures litigation or regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions regulatory investigations or enforcement actions, or resolutions of these matters, and failure or perceived failure of clients, customers, counterparties or other parties to comply with laws or regulations, including companies in which jpmorgan chase has made principal investments, parties to joint ventures with jpmorgan chase, and vendors with which jpmorgan chase does business. jpmorgan chase's reputation may be significantly damaged by adverse publicity or negative information regarding jpmorgan chase, whether or not true, that may be published or broadcast by the media or posted on social media, non-mainstream news services or other parts of the internet. this latter risk can be magnified by the speed and pervasiveness with which information is disseminated through those channels. social and environmental activists are increasingly targeting financial services firms such as jpmorgan chase with public criticism for their relationships with clients that are engaged in certain sensitive industries, including businesses whose products are or are perceived to be harmful to human health, or whose activities negatively affect or are perceived to negatively affect the environment, workers' rights or communities. activists have also engaged in public protests at jpmorgan chase's headquarters and other properties. activist criticism of jpmorgan chase's relationships with clients in sensitive industries could potentially engender dissatisfaction among clients, customers, investors and employees with how jpmorgan chase addresses social and environmental concerns in its business activities. alternatively, yielding to activism targeted at certain sensitive industries could damage jpmorgan chase's relationships with clients and customers, and with governmental bodies in jurisdictions in which jpmorgan chase does business, whose views are not aligned with those of social and environmental activists. in either case, the resulting harm to jpmorgan chase's reputation could: cause certain clients and customers to cease doing business with jpmorgan chase impair jpmorgan chase's ability to attract new clients and customers, or to expand its relationships with existing clients and customers diminish jpmorgan chase's ability to hire or retain employees, or prompt jpmorgan chase to cease doing business with certain clients or customers. actions by the financial services industry generally or individuals in the industry can also affect jpmorgan chase's reputation. for example, concerns that consumers have been treated unfairly by a financial institution, or that a financial institution has acted inappropriately with respect to the methods used to offer products to customers, can damage the reputation of the industry as a whole. if jpmorgan chase is perceived to have engaged in these types of behaviors, this could weaken its reputation among clients or customers. failure to effectively manage potential conflicts of interest can result in litigation and enforcement actions, as well as damage jpmorgan chase's reputation. jpmorgan chase's ability to manage potential conflicts of interest is highly complex due to the broad range of its business activities which encompass a variety of transactions, obligations and interests with and among jpmorgan chase's clients and customers. jpmorgan chase can become subject to litigation and enforcement actions, and its reputation can be damaged, by the failure or perceived failure to: adequately address or appropriately disclose conflicts of interest, including potential conflicts of interest that may arise in connection with providing multiple products and services in the same transaction deliver appropriate standards of service and quality treat clients and customers with the appropriate standard of care 25 part i use client and customer data responsibly and in a manner that meets legal requirements and regulatory expectations provide fiduciary products or services in accordance with the applicable legal and regulatory standards, or handle or use confidential information of customers or clients appropriately or in compliance with applicable data protection and privacy laws and regulations. in the future, a failure or perceived failure to appropriately address conflicts of interest or fiduciary obligations could result in customer dissatisfaction, litigation and regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions, and heightened regulatory scrutiny and enforcement actions, all of which can lead to lost revenue and higher operating costs and cause serious harm to jpmorgan chase's reputation. country an outbreak of hostilities between countries or within a country or region could have a material adverse effect on the global economy and on jpmorgan chase's businesses within the affected region or globally. aggressive actions by hostile governments or groups, including armed conflict or intensified cyberattacks, could expand in unpredictable ways by drawing in other countries or escalating into full-scale war with potentially catastrophic consequences, particularly if one or more of the combatants possess nuclear weapons. depending on the scope of the conflict, the hostilities could result in: worldwide economic disruption heightened volatility in financial markets severe declines in asset values, accompanied by widespread sell-offs of investments substantial depreciation of local currencies, potentially leading to defaults by borrowers and counterparties in the affected region disruption of global trade, and diminished consumer, business and investor confidence. any of the above consequences could have significant negative effects on jpmorgan chase's operations and earnings, both in the countries or regions directly affected by the hostilities or globally. further, if the u.s. were to become directly involved in such a conflict, this could lead to a curtailment of any operations that jpmorgan chase may have in the affected countries or region, as well as in any nation that is aligned against the u.s. in the hostilities. jpmorgan chase could also experience more numerous and aggressive cyberattacks launched by or under the sponsorship of one or more of the adversaries in such a conflict. jpmorgan chase's business activities with governmental entities can pose an enhanced risk of loss. several of jpmorgan chase's businesses engage in transactions with, or trade in obligations of, governmental entities, including national, state, provincial, municipal and local authorities, both within and outside the u.s. these activities can expose jpmorgan chase to enhanced sovereign, credit-related, operational and reputation risks, as governmental entities have in the past, and may in the future, taken actions such as: defaulting on or restructuring their obligations claiming that actions taken by government officials were beyond the legal authority of those officials, or repudiating transactions authorized by a previous incumbent government. any or all of these actions could adversely affect jpmorgan chase's financial condition and results of operations and could hurt its reputation, particularly if jpmorgan chase pursues claims against a government obligor in a jurisdiction in which it has significant business relationships with clients or customers. jpmorgan chase's business and revenues in emerging markets can be hampered by local economic, political, regulatory and social factors. some of the countries in which jpmorgan chase conducts business have economies or markets that are less developed and more volatile, and may have legal and regulatory regimes that are less established or predictable, than the u.s. and other developed markets in which jpmorgan chase operates. some of these countries have in the past experienced severe economic disruptions, including: extreme currency fluctuations high inflation low or negative growth, and defaults or potential defaults on sovereign debt. the governments in these countries have sometimes reacted to these developments by imposing restrictive policies that adversely affect the local and regional business environment, including: price, capital or exchange controls, including imposition of punitive transfer and convertibility restrictions expropriation or nationalization of assets or confiscation of property, including intellectual property, and changes in laws and regulations. the impact of these actions could be accentuated in trading markets that are smaller, less liquid and more volatile than more-developed markets. these types of government actions can negatively affect jpmorgan chase's operations 26 in the relevant country, either directly or by suppressing the business activities of local clients or multi-national clients that conduct business in the jurisdiction. for example, some or all of these governmental actions can result in funds belonging to jpmorgan chase, or that it places with a local custodian on behalf of a client, being effectively trapped in a country. in addition to the ultimate risk of losing the funds entirely, jpmorgan chase could be exposed for an extended period of time to the credit risk of a local custodian that is now operating in a deteriorating domestic economy. in addition, emerging markets countries, as well as certain more developed countries, have been susceptible to unfavorable social developments arising from poor economic conditions and related governmental actions, as well as natural disasters, including: social unrest general strikes and demonstrations crime and corruption security and personal safety issues outbreaks of hostilities overthrow of incumbent governments terrorist attacks, and other forms of internal discord. these economic, political, regulatory and social developments have in the past resulted in, and in the future could lead to, conditions that can adversely affect jpmorgan chase's operations in those countries and impair the revenues, growth and profitability of those operations. in addition, any of these events or circumstances in one country can affect jpmorgan chase's operations and investments in another country or countries, including in the u.s. people jpmorgan chase's ability to attract and retain qualified employees is critical to its success. jpmorgan chase's employees are its most important resource, and in many areas of the financial services industry, competition for qualified personnel is intense. jpmorgan chase endeavors to attract talented and diverse new employees and retain and motivate its existing employees. if jpmorgan chase were unable to continue to attract or retain qualified employees, including successors to the chief executive officer or members of the operating committee, jpmorgan chase's performance, including its competitive position, could be materially and adversely affected. unfavorable changes in immigration policies could adversely affect the quality of jpmorgan chase's businesses and operations. jpmorgan chase relies on the skills, knowledge and expertise of employees located throughout the world. changes in immigration policies in the u.s. and other countries that unduly restrict or otherwise make it more difficult for employees or their family members to work in, or transfer among, jurisdictions in which jpmorgan chase has operations or conducts its business could inhibit jpmorgan chase's ability to attract and retain qualified employees, and thereby dilute the quality of its workforce, or could prompt jpmorgan chase to make structural changes to its worldwide operating model that are less efficient or more costly. legal jpmorgan chase faces significant legal risks from private actions and formal and informal regulatory and government investigations. jpmorgan chase is named as a defendant or is otherwise involved in many legal proceedings, including class actions and other litigation or disputes with third parties. actions currently pending against jpmorgan chase may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other sanctions adverse to jpmorgan chase. any of these matters could materially and adversely affect jpmorgan chase's business, financial condition or results of operations, or cause serious reputational harm. as a participant in the financial services industry, it is likely that jpmorgan chase will continue to experience a high level of litigation and regulatory and government investigations related to its businesses and operations. regulators and other government agencies conduct examinations of jpmorgan chase and its subsidiaries both on a routine basis and in targeted exams, and jpmorgan chase's businesses and operations are subject to heightened regulatory oversight. this heightened regulatory scrutiny, or the results of such an investigation or examination, may lead to additional regulatory investigations or enforcement actions. there is no assurance that those actions will not result in resolutions or other enforcement actions against jpmorgan chase. furthermore, a single event involving a potential violation of law or regulation may give rise to numerous and overlapping investigations and proceedings, either by multiple federal, state or local agencies and officials in the u.s. or, in some instances, regulators and other governmental officials in non-u.s. jurisdictions. if another financial institution violates a law or regulation relating to a particular business activity or practice, this will often give rise to an investigation by regulators and other governmental agencies of the same or similar activity or practice by jpmorgan chase. 27 part i these and other initiatives by u.s. and non-u.s. governmental authorities may subject jpmorgan chase to judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other sanctions, and may require jpmorgan chase to restructure its operations and activities or to cease offering certain products or services. all of these potential outcomes could harm jpmorgan chase's reputation or lead to higher operational costs, thereby reducing jpmorgan chase's profitability, or result in collateral consequences. in addition, the extent of jpmorgan chase's exposure to legal and regulatory matters can be unpredictable and could, in some cases, exceed the amount of reserves that jpmorgan chase has established for those matters. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 30 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. refer to the market risk management section of management's discussion and analysis on pages 119 126 for a discussion of quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk.