risk factors 11 risk factors business risks the company operations involve various risks that could have adverse consequences to it. these risks include, among others: risks of the current economic environment disruptions in the global capital and credit markets may adversely affect the company business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. recent global market and economic conditions have been unprecedented and challenging with tighter credit conditions, slower growth and recession in most major economies during 2009. although signs of recovery may exist, there are continued concerns about the systemic impact of inflation, the availability and cost of credit, a declining real estate market, and geopolitical issues that contribute to increased market volatility and uncertain expectations for the global economy. these conditions, combined with declining business activity levels and consumer confidence, increased unemployment and volatile oil prices, contributed to unprecedented levels of volatility in the capital markets during 2009. any additional, continued or recurring disruptions in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect the company business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. as a result of these market conditions, the cost and availability of credit have been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide funding to businesses and consumers. these factors have led to a decrease in spending by businesses and consumers alike, and a corresponding decrease in global infrastructure spending. while the company currently believes that it has sufficient working capital and capacity under its credit facilities in the near term, continued or recurring turbulence in the global markets and economies and prolonged declines in business and consumer spending may adversely affect its liquidity and financial condition, as well as the liquidity and financial condition of its customers. if these market conditions persist, recur or worsen in the long term, they may limit the company ability, and the ability of its customers, to timely replace maturing liabilities, and access the credit markets to meet liquidity needs. if the long-term debt ratings of the operating partnership fall below its current levels, the borrowing cost of debt under its unsecured credit facilities and certain term loans may increase. in addition, if the long-term debt ratings of the operating partnership fall below investment grade, it may be unable to request borrowings in currencies other than u.s. dollars or japanese yen, as applicable; however, the lack of other currency borrowings does not affect its ability to fully draw down under the credit facilities or term loans. while the operating partnership currently does not expect its long-term debt ratings to fall below investment grade, in the event that its ratings do fall below those levels, it may be unable to exercise its options to extend the term of its credit facilities, and the loss of its ability to borrow in foreign currencies could affect its ability to optimally hedge its borrowings against foreign currency exchange rate changes. in addition, the company cannot assure you that additional, continuing or recurring long-term disruptions in the global economy and the continuation of tighter credit conditions among, and potential failures of, third-party financial institutions as a result of such disruptions will not have an adverse effect on the operating partnership borrowing capacity and liquidity position. the operating partnership access to funds under its credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the lenders that are parties to such facilities to meet their funding commitments to the operating partnership. the company cannot assure you that if one of the operating partnership lenders fails (some of whom are lenders under a number of the operating partnership facilities), the operating partnership will be successful in finding a replacement lender and, as a result, its borrowing capacity under the applicable facilities may be permanently reduced. if the company does not have sufficient cash flows and income from its operations to meet its financial commitments and those lenders are not able to meet their funding commitments to the operating partnership, the company business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. 11 table of contents certain of the company third-party indebtedness is held by the company consolidated or unconsolidated joint ventures. in the event that the company joint venture partner is unable to meet its obligations under the joint venture agreements or the third-party debt agreements, the company may elect to pay its joint venture partner portion of debt to avoid foreclosure on the mortgaged property or permit the lender to foreclose on the mortgaged property to meet the joint venture debt obligations. in either case, the company could face a loss of income and asset value on the property. there can be no assurance that the markets will stabilize in the near future or that the company will choose to or be able to increase its levels of capital deployment at such time or ever. in addition, a continued increase in the cost of credit and inability to access the capital and credit markets may adversely impact the occupancy of the company properties, the disposition of its properties, private capital raising and contribution of properties to its co-investment ventures. for example, an inability to fully lease the company properties may result in such properties not meeting the company investment criteria for contributions to its co-investment ventures. if the company is unable to contribute completed development properties to its co-investment ventures or sell its completed development projects to third parties, the company will not be able to recognize gains from the contribution or sale of such properties and, as a result, the net income available to the parent company common stockholders and its funds from operations will decrease. additionally, business layoffs, downsizing, industry slowdowns and other similar factors that affect the company customers may adversely impact its business and financial condition. furthermore, general uncertainty in the real estate markets has resulted in conditions where the pricing of certain real estate assets may be difficult due to uncertainty with respect to capitalization rates and valuations, among other things, which may add to the difficulty of buyers or the company co-investment ventures to obtain financing on favorable terms to acquire such properties or cause potential buyers to not complete acquisitions of such properties. the market uncertainty with respect to capitalization rates and real estate valuations also adversely impacts the company net asset value. in addition, the operating partnership may face difficulty in refinancing its mortgage debt, or may be unable to refinance such debt at all, if its property values significantly decline. such a decline may also cause a default under the loan-to-value covenants in some of the company joint ventures mortgage debt, which may require its joint ventures to re-margin or pay down a portion of the applicable debt. there can be no assurance, however, that in such an event, the company will be able to do so to prevent foreclosure. in the event that the company does not have sufficient cash available to it through its operations to continue operating its business as usual, the company may need to find alternative ways to increase its liquidity. such alternatives may include, without limitation, divesting itself of properties, whether or not they otherwise meet the company strategic objectives to keep in the long term, at less than optimal terms; issuing and selling its debt and equity in public or private transactions under less than optimal conditions; entering into leases with its customers at lower rental rates or less than optimal terms; or entering into lease renewals with its existing customers without an increase in rental rates at turnover. there can be no assurance, however, that such alternative ways to increase the company liquidity will be available to the company. additionally, taking such measures to increase the company liquidity may adversely affect its business, results of operations and financial condition. as of december 31, 2009, the company had $187.2 million in cash and cash equivalents. the company available cash and cash equivalents are held in accounts managed by third-party financial institutions and consist of invested cash and cash in its operating accounts. the invested cash is invested in money market funds that invest solely in direct obligations of the government of the united states or in time deposits with certain financial institutions. to date, the company has experienced no loss or lack of access to its invested cash or cash equivalents; however, the company can provide no assurances that access to its invested cash and cash equivalents will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. at any point in time, the company also has a significant amount of cash deposits in its operating accounts that are with third-party financial institutions, and, as of december 31, 2009, the amount in such deposits was approximately $159.4 million on a consolidated basis. these balances exceed the federal deposit insurance corporation insurance limits. while the company monitors daily the cash balances in its operating accounts and adjusts the cash balances as appropriate, these cash balances could be impacted if the underlying financial institutions fail or be subject to other adverse conditions in the financial markets. to date, the company has experienced no loss or lack of access to cash in its operating accounts. 12 table of contents the price per share of the parent company stock may decline or fluctuate significantly. the market price per share of the parent company common stock may decline or fluctuate significantly in response to many factors, including: general market and economic conditions; actual or anticipated variations in the parent company operating results or dividends or the parent company payment of dividends in shares of its stock; changes in its funds from operations or earnings estimates; difficulties or inability to access capital or extend or refinance existing debt; breaches of covenants and defaults under the operating partnership credit facilities and other debt; decreasing (or uncertainty in) real estate valuations, market rents and rental occupancy rates; a change in analyst ratings or the operating partnership credit ratings; general stock and bond market conditions, including changes in interest rates on fixed income securities, that may lead prospective purchasers of the parent company stock to demand a higher annual yield from future dividends; adverse market reaction to any additional debt the operating partnership incurs in the future or any other capital market activity the company may conduct, including additional issuances of parent company stock; adverse market reaction to the company strategic initiatives and their implementation; changes in market valuations of similar companies; publication of research reports about the parent company or the real estate industry; the general reputation of real estate investment trusts and the attractiveness of their equity securities in comparison to other equity securities (including securities issued by other real estate-based companies); additions or departures of key management personnel; actions by institutional stockholders; speculation in the press or investment community; terrorist activity may adversely affect the markets in which the company securities trade, possibly increasing market volatility and causing the further erosion of business and consumer confidence and spending; governmental regulatory action and changes in tax laws; and the realization of any of the other risk factors included in this report. many of the factors listed above are beyond the company control. these factors may cause the market price of shares of the parent company common stock to decline, regardless of its financial condition, results of operations, business or its prospects. debt financing risks the company faces risks associated with the use of debt to fund its business activities, including refinancing and interest rate risks. as of december 31, 2009, the operating partnership had total debt outstanding of $3.2 billion. as of december 31, 2009, the parent company guaranteed $1.2 billion of the operating partnership obligations with respect to the senior debt securities referenced in the parent company financial statements. the operating partnership is subject to risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that its cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest. it is likely that the operating partnership will need 13 table of contents to refinance at least a portion of its outstanding debt as it matures. there is a risk that the operating partnership may not be able to refinance existing debt or that the terms of any refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of its existing debt. if the operating partnership is unable to refinance or extend principal payments due at maturity or pay them with proceeds of other capital transactions, then the operating partnership expects that its cash flow will not be sufficient in all years to repay all such maturing debt and to pay distributions to its unitholders, including the parent company, which, in turn, will be unable to pay cash dividends to its stockholders. furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing (such as the reluctance of lenders to make commercial real estate loans) result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. higher interest rates on newly incurred debt may negatively impact the operating partnership as well. if interest rates increase, the operating partnership interest costs and overall costs of capital will increase, which could adversely affect its financial condition, results of operation and cash flow, the market price of the parent company stock, the operating partnership ability to pay principal and interest on its debt and to pay distributions to its unitholders, the parent company ability to pay cash dividends to its stockholders and the operating partnership capital deployment activity. in addition, there may be circumstances that will require the operating partnership to obtain amendments or waivers to provisions in its credit facilities or other financings. there can be no assurance that the operating partnership will be able to obtain necessary amendments or waivers at all or without significant expense. in such case, the operating partnership may not be able to fund its business activities as planned, within budget or at all. in addition, if the company mortgages one or more of its properties to secure payment of indebtedness and the company is unable to meet mortgage payments, then the property could be foreclosed upon or transferred to the lender with a consequent loss of income and asset value. a foreclosure on one or more of the company properties could adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay distributions to the operating partnership unitholders and cash dividends to the parent company stockholders, and the market price of the parent company stock. as of december 31, 2009, the company had outstanding bank guarantees in the amount of $0.4 million used to secure contingent obligations, primarily obligations under development and purchase agreements. as of december 31, 2009, the company also guaranteed $47.9 million and $106.7 million on outstanding loans for six of its consolidated co-investment ventures and four of its unconsolidated co-investment ventures, respectively. also, the company has entered into contribution agreements with certain of its unconsolidated co-investment venture funds. these contribution agreements require the company to make additional capital contributions to the applicable co-investment venture fund upon certain defaults by the co-investment venture of its debt obligations to the lenders. such additional capital contributions will cover all or part of the applicable co-investment venture debt obligation and may be greater than the company share of the co-investment venture debt obligation or the value of the company share of any property securing such debt. the company contribution obligations under these agreements will be reduced by the amounts recovered by the lender and the fair market value of the property, if any, used to secure the debt and obtained by the lender upon default. the company potential obligations under these contribution agreements were $260.6 million as of december 31, 2009. the company intends to continue to guarantee debt of its unconsolidated co-investment venture funds and make additional contributions to its unconsolidated co-investment venture funds in connection with property contributions to the funds. such payment obligations under such guarantees and contribution obligations under such contribution agreements, if required to be paid, could be of a magnitude that could adversely affect the company financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to the parent company stockholders and distributions to the operating partnership unitholders and the market price of the parent company stock. adverse changes in the company credit ratings could negatively affect its financing activity. the credit ratings of the operating partnership senior unsecured long-term debt and the parent company preferred stock are based on its operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position and other factors employed by the credit rating agencies in their rating analyses of the company. the company credit ratings can affect the amount of capital it can access, as well as the terms and pricing of any debt the operating partnership may incur. there can be no assurance that the company will be able to maintain its current credit ratings, and in the event its current credit ratings are downgraded, the company would likely incur higher borrowing costs 14 table of contents and may encounter difficulty in obtaining additional financing. also, a downgrade in the company credit ratings may trigger additional payments or other negative consequences under its current and future credit facilities and debt instruments. for example, if the operating partnership credit ratings of its senior unsecured long-term debt are downgraded to below investment grade levels, the operating partnership may not be able to obtain or maintain extensions on certain of its existing debt. adverse changes in the operating partnership credit ratings could negatively impact its refinancing and other capital market activities, its ability to manage its debt maturities, its future growth, its financial condition, the market price of the parent company stock, and its development and acquisition activity. covenants in the operating partnership debt agreements could adversely affect its financial condition. the terms of the operating partnership credit agreements and other indebtedness require that it complies with a number of financial and other covenants, such as maintaining debt service coverage and leverage ratios and maintaining insurance coverage. these covenants may limit flexibility in the operating partnership operations, and its failure to comply with these covenants could cause a default under the applicable debt agreement even if it has satisfied its payment obligations. as of december 31, 2009, the operating partnership had certain non-recourse, secured loans, which are cross-collateralized by multiple properties. if the operating partnership defaults on any of these loans, it may then be required to repay such indebtedness, together with applicable prepayment charges, to avoid foreclosure on all the cross-collateralized properties within the applicable pool. foreclosure on the operating partnership properties, or its inability to refinance its loans on favorable terms, could adversely impact its financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to the parent company stockholders or distributions to the operating partnership unitholders, and the market price of the parent company stock. in addition, the operating partnership credit facilities and senior debt securities contain certain cross-default provisions, which are triggered in the event that its other material indebtedness is in default. these cross-default provisions may require the operating partnership to repay or restructure the credit facilities and the senior debt securities in addition to any mortgage or other debt that is in default, which could adversely affect the operating partnership financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay distributions to its unitholders and the parent company ability to pay cash dividends to its stockholders and the market price of its stock. failure to hedge effectively against exchange and interest rates may adversely affect results of operations. the company seeks to manage its exposure to exchange and interest rate volatility by using exchange and interest rate hedging arrangements, such as cap agreements and swap agreements. these agreements involve risks, such as the risk that the counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing the company exposure to exchange or interest rate changes and that a court could rule that such agreements are not legally enforceable. hedging may reduce overall returns on the company investments. failure to hedge effectively against exchange and interest rate changes may materially adversely affect the company results of operations. the company is dependent on external sources of capital. in order to qualify as a real estate investment trust, the parent company is required each year to distribute to its stockholders at least 90% of its real estate investment trust taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends-paid deduction and by excluding any net capital gain) and is subject to tax to the extent its income is not fully distributed. while historically the parent company has satisfied these distribution requirements by making cash distributions to its stockholders, the parent company may choose to satisfy these requirements by making distributions of cash or other property, including, in limited circumstances, its own stock. for distributions with respect to taxable years ending on or before december 31, 2011, and in some cases declared as late as december 31, 2012, recent internal revenue service guidance allows the parent company to satisfy up to 90% of the distribution requirements discussed above through the distribution of shares of its stock, if certain conditions are met. assuming the parent company continues to satisfy these distribution requirements with cash, the parent company and the operating partnership may not be able to fund all future capital needs, including acquisition and development activities, from cash retained from operations and may have to rely on third-party sources of capital. further, in 15 table of contents order to maintain the parent company real estate investment trust status and avoid the payment of federal income and excise taxes, the parent company, through the operating partnership, may need to borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the real estate investment trust distribution requirements even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings. these short-term borrowing needs could result from differences in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for federal income tax purposes, or the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt or amortization payments. the company ability to access private debt and equity capital on favorable terms or at all is dependent upon a number of factors, including general market conditions, the market perception of the company growth potential, its current and potential future earnings and cash distributions and the market price of its securities. the operating partnership could incur more debt, increasing its debt service. as of december 31, 2009, the operating partnership share of total debt-to-its share of total market capitalization ratio was 46.5%. the operating partnership definition of the operating partnership share of total market capitalization is the operating partnership share of total debt plus preferred equity liquidation preferences plus market equity. see footnote 1 to the capitalization ratios table contained in part ii, item 7: management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation liquidity and capital resources for the operating partnership definitions of market equity and the operating partnership share of total debt. as this ratio percentage increases directly with a decrease in the market price per share of the parent company capital stock, an unstable market environment will impact this ratio in a volatile manner. there can also be no assurance that the operating partnership would not become more highly leveraged, resulting in an increase in debt service that could adversely affect the cash available for distribution to its unitholders and, in turn, the cash available to distribute to the parent company stockholders. furthermore, if the operating partnership becomes more highly leveraged, the operating partnership may not be in compliance with the debt covenants contained in the agreements governing its co-investment ventures, which could adversely impact its private capital business. other real estate industry risks the company performance and value are subject to general economic conditions and risks associated with its real estate assets. the investment returns available from equity investments in real estate depend on the amount of income earned and capital appreciation generated by the properties, as well as the expenses incurred in connection with the properties. if the company properties do not generate income sufficient to meet operating expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, then the operating partnership ability to pay distributions to its unitholders (including the parent company) and, in turn, the parent company ability to pay cash dividends to its stockholders could be adversely affected. in addition, there are significant expenditures associated with an investment in real estate (such as mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs) that generally do not decline when circumstances reduce the income from the property. income from, and the value of, the company properties may be adversely affected by: changes in the general economic climate, such as the current one, including diminished access to or availability of capital (including difficulties in financing, refinancing and extending existing debt) and rising inflation (see risks of the current economic environment ); local conditions, such as oversupply of or a reduction in demand for industrial space; the attractiveness of the company properties to potential customers; competition from other properties; the company ability to provide adequate maintenance and insurance; increased operating costs; increased cost of compliance with regulations; the potential for liability under applicable laws (including changes in tax laws); and disruptions in the global supply chain caused by political, regulatory or other factors, including terrorism. 16 table of contents in addition, periods of economic slowdown or recession in the united states and in other countries, rising interest rates, diminished access to or availability of capital or declining demand for real estate, may result in a general decrease in rents, an increased occurrence of defaults under existing leases or greater difficulty in financing the company acquisition and development activities, which would adversely affect the company financial condition and results of operations. future terrorist attacks may result in declining economic activity, which could reduce the demand for and the value of the company properties. to the extent that future attacks impact the company customers, their businesses similarly could be adversely affected, including their ability to continue to honor their existing leases. the company properties are concentrated predominantly in the industrial real estate sector. as a result of this concentration, the company feels the impact of an economic downturn in this sector more acutely than if the company portfolio included other property types. declining real estate valuations and impairment charges could adversely affect the company earnings and financial condition. the current economic downturn has generally resulted in lower real estate valuations, which has required the company to recognize real estate impairment charges on its assets. the company conducts a comprehensive review of all real estate asset classes in accordance with its policy of accounting for the impairment or disposal of long-lived assets, which indicates that asset values should be analyzed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of a property may not be fully recoverable. the intended use of an asset, either held for sale or held for the long term, can significantly impact how impairment is measured. if an asset is intended to be held for the long term, the impairment analysis is based on a two-step test. the first test measures estimated expected future cash flows over the holding period, including a residual value (undiscounted and without interest charges), against the carrying value of the property. if the asset fails the first test, then the asset carrying value is measured against the estimated fair value from a market participant standpoint, with the excess of the asset carrying value over the estimated fair value recognized as an impairment charge to earnings. if an asset is intended to be sold, impairment is tested based on a one-step test, comparing the carrying value to the estimated fair value less costs to sell. the estimation of expected future net cash flows is inherently uncertain and relies on assumptions regarding current and future economic and market conditions and the availability of capital. the company determines the estimated fair values based on assumptions regarding rental rates, costs to complete, lease-up and holding periods, as well as sales prices or contribution values. the company also utilizes the knowledge of its regional teams and the recent valuations of its two open-ended funds, which contain a large, geographically diversified pool of assets, all of which are subject to third-party appraisals on at least an annual basis. as a result of changing market conditions, the company re-evaluated the carrying value of its investments and recognized real estate impairment losses of $181.9 million during the year ended december 31, 2009 on certain of its investments. the principal trigger which led to the impairment charges was the severe economic deterioration in some markets resulting in a decrease in leasing and rental rates, rising vacancies and an increase in capitalization rates. additional impairments may be necessary in the future in the event that market conditions continue to deteriorate and impact the factors used to estimate fair value, which may include impairments relating to the company unconsolidated real estate as well as impairments relating to the company investments in its unconsolidated co-investment ventures. investments in unconsolidated joint ventures are presented under the equity method. the equity method is used when the company has the ability to exercise significant influence over operating and financial policies of the joint venture but does not have control of the joint venture. under the equity method, these investments are initially recognized in the balance sheet at cost and are subsequently adjusted to reflect the company proportionate share of net earnings or losses of the joint venture, distributions received, contributions, deferred gains from the contribution of properties and certain other adjustments, as appropriate. when circumstances indicate there may have been a loss in value of an equity investment, the company evaluates the investment for impairment by estimating the company ability to recover its investment or if the loss in value is other than temporary. to evaluate whether an impairment is other than temporary, the company considers relevant factors, including, but not limited to, the period of time in any unrealized loss position, the likelihood of a future recovery, and the company positive intent and ability to hold the investment until the forecasted recovery. if the company determines the loss in value is other than temporary, the company recognizes an impairment charge to reflect the 17 table of contents investment at fair value. fair value is determined through various valuation techniques, including, but not limited to, discounted cash flow models, quoted market values and third party appraisals. during the year ended december 31, 2009, the company did not record any impairment on its investments in unconsolidated co-investment ventures. there can be no assurance that the estimates and assumptions the company uses to assess impairments are accurate and will reflect actual results. a worsening real estate market may cause the company to reevaluate the assumptions used in its impairment analysis and its intent to hold, sell, develop or contribute properties. impairment charges could adversely affect the company financial condition, results of operations and its ability to pay cash dividends to the parent company stockholders and distributions to the operating partnership unitholders and the market price of the parent company stock. see part iv, item 15: note 3 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for a more detailed discussion of the real estate impairment losses recorded in the company results of operations. the company may be unable to lease vacant space or renew leases or relet space as leases expire. as of december 31, 2009, on an owned and managed basis, the company occupancy average was 91.4% year-to-date and the leases on 13.1% of the company industrial properties (based on annualized base rent) will expire on or prior to december 31, 2010. the company derives most of its income from rent received from its customers. accordingly, the company financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and its ability to pay dividends to the parent company stockholders and distributions to the operating partnership unitholders, and the market price of the parent company stock could be adversely affected if the company is unable to lease vacant space at favorable rents or terms or at all and to promptly relet or renew expiring leases or if the rental rates upon leasing, renewal or reletting are significantly lower than expected. there can be no assurance that the company will be able to lease its vacant space, renew its expiring leases, increase its occupancy to its historical averages or generally realize the potential of its currently low-yielding assets (including the build-out and leasing of its development platform). periods of economic slowdown or recession are likely to adversely affect the company leasing activities. if a customer experiences a downturn in its business or other type of financial distress, then it may be unable to make timely rental payments or renew its lease. further, the company ability to rent space and the rents that it can charge are impacted, not only by customer demand, but by the number of other properties the company has to compete with to appeal to customers. the company could be adversely affected if a significant number of its customers are unable to meet their lease obligations. the company results of operations, distributable cash flow and the value of the parent company stock would be adversely affected if a significant number of the company customers were unable to meet their lease obligations. in the current economic environment, it is likely that customer bankruptcies will increase. if a customer seeks the protection of bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws, such customer lease may be terminated in the process and result in a reduction of cash flow to the company. in the event of a significant number of lease defaults and/or tenant bankruptcies, the company cash flow may not be sufficient to pay distributions to the operating partnership unitholders and cash dividends to the parent company stockholders and repay maturing debt and any other obligations. as of december 31, 2009, on an owned and managed basis, the company did not have any single customer account for annualized base rent revenues greater than 3.6%. however, in the event of lease defaults by a significant number of the company customers, the company may incur substantial costs in enforcing its rights as landlord. the company may be unable to consummate acquisitions on advantageous terms or at all or acquisitions may not perform as it expects. on a strategic and selective basis, the company may acquire u.s. or foreign properties, portfolios of properties or interests in property-owning or real-estate related entities and platforms, which could include large acquisitions that could increase the company size and alter its capital and organizational structure. such acquisitions entail various risks, including the risks that the company investments may not perform or be accretive to the company value as it expects, that it may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate its new acquisitions into its existing operations or, if applicable, contribute the acquired properties to a joint venture, that portfolio acquisitions may 18 table of contents include non-core assets, that the new investments may come with unexpected liabilities and that the company cost estimates for developing or bringing an acquired property up to market standards may prove inaccurate. the company may not be able to acquire assets at values above the company cost of capital. in addition, the company expects to finance future acquisitions through a combination of borrowings under its unsecured credit facilities, proceeds from private or public equity or debt offerings (including issuances of operating partnership units) and proceeds from property divestitures, which may not be available at favorable pricing or at all and which could adversely affect the company cash flow. further, the company faces significant competition for attractive investment opportunities from other real estate investors, including both publicly-traded real estate investment trusts and private institutional investors and funds. this competition increases as quality investment opportunities arise at favorable pricing and investments in real estate become increasingly attractive relative to other forms of investment. as a result of competition, the company may be unable to make additional investments as it desires or the purchase price of the investments may be significantly elevated. also, the company may incur significant transaction-related costs in exploring and pursuing potential transactions it may not consummate. any of the above risks could adversely affect the company financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and the ability to pay cash dividends to the parent company stockholders and distributions to the operating partnership unitholders, and the market price of the parent company stock. the company is subject to risks and liabilities in connection with forming new joint ventures, investing in new or existing joint ventures, attracting third party investment and owning properties through joint ventures and other investment vehicles. as of december 31, 2009, approximately 88.1 million square feet of the company properties were held through joint ventures, limited liability companies or partnerships with third parties. the company organizational documents do not limit the amount of available funds that it may invest in partnerships, limited liability companies or joint ventures, and the company may and currently intends to develop and acquire properties through joint ventures, limited liability companies, partnerships with and investments in other entities when warranted by the circumstances. however, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to form new joint ventures, attract third party investment or make additional investments in new or existing joint ventures, successfully develop or acquire properties through such joint ventures, or realize value from such joint ventures. the company inability to do so may have an adverse effect on the company growth, its earnings and the market price of the parent company securities. joint venture partners may share certain approval rights over major decisions and some partners may manage the properties in the joint venture investments. joint venture investments involve certain risks, including: if the company joint venture partners go bankrupt, then the company and any other remaining partners may generally remain liable for the investment liabilities; if the company joint venture partners fail to fund their share of any required capital contributions, then the company may choose to or be required to contribute such capital; the company may, under certain circumstances, guarantee all or a portion of the joint venture debt, which may require the company to pay an amount greater than its investment in the joint venture; the company joint venture partners might have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with the company business interests or goals that would affect the company ability to operate the property; the company joint venture partners may have the power to act contrary to the company instructions, requests, policies or objectives, including its current policy with respect to maintaining the parent company qualification as a real estate investment trust; the joint venture or other governing agreements often restrict the transfer of an interest in the joint venture or may otherwise restrict the company ability to sell the interest when it desires or on advantageous terms; the company relationships with its joint venture partners are generally contractual in nature and may be terminated or dissolved under the terms of the agreements, and in such event, the company may not continue 19 table of contents to own or operate the interests or assets underlying such relationship or may need to purchase such interests or assets at an above-market price to continue ownership; disputes between the company and its joint venture partners may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase the company expenses and prevent its officers and directors from focusing their time and effort on the company business and result in subjecting the properties owned by the applicable joint venture to additional risk; and the company may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of its joint venture partners. the company generally seeks to maintain sufficient control or influence over its joint ventures to permit it to achieve its business objectives; however, the company may not be able to do so, and the occurrence of one or more of the events described above could adversely affect the company financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to the parent company stockholders and distributions to the operating partnership unitholders and the market price of the parent company stock. the company may not be successful in contributing properties to its co-investment ventures. the company may contribute or sell properties to certain of its co-investment ventures on a case-by-case basis. however, the company may fail to contribute properties to its co-investment ventures due to such factors as its inability to acquire, develop, or lease properties that meet the investment criteria of such ventures, or its co-investment ventures inability to access debt and equity capital to pay for property contributions or their allocation of available capital to cover other capital requirements such as forward commitments, loan maturities and future redemptions. if the co-investment ventures are unable to raise additional capital on favorable terms after available capital is depleted or if the value of properties to be contributed or sold to the co-investment ventures are appraised at less than the cost of such properties, then such contributions or sales could be delayed or prevented, adversely affecting the company financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to the parent company stockholders and distributions to the operating partnership unitholders, and the market price of the parent company stock. a delay in these contributions could result in adverse effects on the company liquidity and on its ability to meet projected earnings levels in a particular reporting period, which could have an adverse effect on the company results of operations, distributable cash flow and the value of its securities. the company may be unable to complete divestitures on advantageous terms or at all. the company may divest itself of properties, which are currently in its portfolio, are held for sale or which otherwise do not meet its strategic objectives. the company may, in certain circumstances, divest itself of properties to increase its liquidity or to capitalize on opportunities that arise. the company ability to dispose of properties on advantageous terms or at all depends on factors beyond its control, including competition from other sellers, current market conditions (including capitalization rates applicable to its properties) and the availability of financing for potential buyers of its properties. if the company is unable to dispose of properties on favorable terms or at all or redeploy the proceeds of property divestitures in accordance with its investment strategy, then the company financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, ability to meet its debt obligations in a timely manner and the ability to pay cash dividends and distributions could be adversely affected, which could also negatively impact the market price of the parent company stock. actions by the company competitors may affect the company ability to divest properties and may decrease or prevent increases of the occupancy and rental rates of the company properties. the company competes with other owners, operators and developers of real estate, some of which own properties similar to the company properties in the same submarkets in which the company properties are located. if the company competitors sell assets similar to assets the company intends to divest in the same markets and/or at valuations below the company valuations for comparable assets, the company may be unable to divest its assets at favorable pricing or on favorable terms or at all. in addition, if the company competitors offer space at rental rates below current market rates or below the rental rates the company currently charges its customers, the 20 table of contents company may lose potential customers, and the company may be pressured to reduce its rental rates below those the company currently charges in order to retain customers when its customers leases expire. as a result, the company financial condition, cash flow, cash available for distributions and dividends and, trading price of the parent company stock and ability to satisfy the operating partnership debt service obligations could be materially adversely affected. the company may be unable to complete renovation, development and redevelopment projects on advantageous terms or at all. on a strategic and selective basis, the company may develop, renovate and redevelop properties. after the financial and real estate markets stabilize, the company may expand its investment in its development, renovation and redevelopment business and complete the build-out and leasing of its development platform. the company may also develop, renovate and redevelop properties in newly formed development joint ventures into which the company may contribute assets. the real estate development, renovation and redevelopment business involves significant risks that could adversely affect the company financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to the parent company stockholders and distributions to the operating partnership unitholders and the market price of the parent company stock, which include the following risks: the company may not be able to obtain financing for development projects on favorable terms or at all and complete construction on schedule or within budget, resulting in increased debt service expense and construction costs and delays in leasing the properties, generating cash flow and, if applicable, contributing properties to a joint venture; the company may not be able to obtain, or may experience delays in obtaining, all necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other governmental permits and authorizations; the properties may perform below anticipated levels, producing cash flow below budgeted amounts; the company may not be able to lease properties on favorable terms or at all; construction costs, total investment amounts and the company share of remaining funding may exceed the company estimates and projects may not be completed, delivered or stabilized as planned; the company may not be able to attract third party investment in new development joint ventures or sufficient customer demand for its product; the company may not be able to capture the anticipated enhanced value created by its value-added conversion projects on its expected timetables or at all; the company may not be able to successfully form development joint ventures or capture value from such newly formed ventures; the company may fail to contribute properties to its co-investment ventures due to such factors as its inability to acquire, develop, or lease properties that meet the investment criteria of such ventures, or its co-investment ventures inability to access debt and equity capital to pay for property contributions or their allocation of available capital to cover other capital requirements such as future redemptions; the company may experience delays (temporary or permanent) if there is public opposition to its activities; substantial renovation, new development and redevelopment activities, regardless of their ultimate success, typically require a significant amount of management time and attention, diverting their attention from the company day-to-day operations; and upon completion of construction, the company may not be able to obtain, on advantageous terms or at all, permanent financing for activities that it has financed through construction loans. 21 table of contents real estate investments are relatively illiquid, making it difficult for the company to respond promptly to changing conditions. real estate assets are not as liquid as certain other types of assets. further, the internal revenue code regulates the number of properties that the parent company, as a real estate investment trust, can dispose of in a year, their tax bases and the cost of improvements that the parent company makes to the properties. in addition, a portion of the properties held directly or indirectly by certain of the company subsidiary partnerships were acquired in exchange for limited partnership units in the applicable partnership. the contribution agreements for such properties may contain restrictions on certain sales, exchanges or other dispositions of these properties, or a portion thereof, which result in a taxable transaction for specified periods, following the contribution of these properties to the applicable partnership. these limitations may affect the company ability to sell properties. this lack of liquidity and the internal revenue code restrictions may limit the company ability to vary its portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions and, as a result, could adversely affect the company financial condition, results of operations and cash flow, the market price of the parent company stock, the ability to pay cash dividends to the parent company stockholders and distributions to the operating partnership unitholders, and the operating partnership ability to access capital necessary to meet its debt payments and other obligations. risks associated with the company international business the company international activities are subject to special risks and it may not be able to effectively manage its international business. the company acquired and developed, and may continue to acquire and develop on a strategic and selective basis, properties and operating platforms outside the united states. because local markets affect the company operations, the company international investments are subject to economic fluctuations in the international locations in which the company invests. access to capital may be more restricted, or unavailable on favorable terms or at all, in certain locations. in addition, the company international operations are subject to the usual risks of doing business abroad such as revisions in tax treaties or other laws and regulations, including those governing the taxation of the company international revenues, restrictions on the transfer of funds, and, in certain parts of the world, uncertainty over property rights, terrorist or gang-related activities, civil unrest and political instability. the company cannot predict the likelihood that any of these developments may occur. further, the company has entered, and may in the future enter, into agreements with non-u.s. entities that are governed by the laws of, and are subject to dispute resolution in the courts of, another country or region. the company cannot accurately predict whether such a forum would provide it with an effective and efficient means of resolving disputes that may arise. further, even if the company is able to obtain a satisfactory decision through arbitration or a court proceeding, the company could have difficulty enforcing any award or judgment on a timely basis or at all. the company also has offices in many countries outside the united states and, as a result, the company operations may be subject to risks that may limit its ability to effectively establish, staff and manage its offices outside the united states, including: differing employment practices and labor issues; local business and cultural factors that differ from the company usual standards and practices; regulatory requirements and prohibitions that differ between jurisdictions; and health concerns. the company global growth (including growth in new regions in the united states) subjects the company to certain risks, including risks associated with funding increasing headcount, integrating new offices, and establishing effective controls and procedures to regulate the operations of new offices and to monitor compliance with regulations such as the foreign corrupt practices act. in addition, payroll expenses are paid in local currencies and, therefore, the company is exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in the rate of exchange between the u.s. dollar and these currencies. further, the company business has grown rapidly and may continue to grow in a strategic and deliberate manner. if the company fails to effectively manage its international growth, then the company financial condition, 22 table of contents results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to the parent company stockholders and distributions to the operating partnership unitholders, and the market price of the parent company stock could be adversely affected. the company is subject to risks from potential fluctuations in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and the currencies of the other countries in which it invests. the company may pursue growth opportunities in international markets on a strategic and selective basis. as the company invests in countries where the u.s. dollar is not the national currency, the company is subject to international currency risks from the potential fluctuations in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and the currencies of those other countries. a significant depreciation in the value of the currency of one or more countries where the company has a significant investment may materially affect its results of operations. the company attempts to mitigate any such effects by borrowing in the currency of the country in which it is investing and, under certain circumstances, by putting in place international currency put option contracts to hedge exchange rate fluctuations. for leases denominated in international currencies, the company may use derivative financial instruments to manage the international currency exchange risk. the company cannot assure you, however, that its efforts will successfully neutralize all international currency risks. acquired properties may be located in new markets, where the company may face risks associated with investing in an unfamiliar market. the company has acquired and may continue to acquire properties, portfolios of properties, interests in real-estate related entities or platforms on a strategic and selective basis in international markets that are new to it. when the company acquires properties or platforms located in these markets, it may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local economy, forging new business relationships in the area and unfamiliarity with local government and permitting procedures. the company works to mitigate such risks through extensive diligence and research and associations with experienced partners; however, there can be no guarantee that all such risks will be eliminated. general business risks the company performance and value are impacted by the local economic conditions of and the risks associated with doing business in california. as of december 31, 2009, the company industrial properties located in california represented 22.6% of the aggregate square footage of its industrial operating properties and 21.0% of its industrial annualized base rent, on an owned and managed basis. the company revenue from, and the value of, its properties located in california may be affected by local real estate conditions (such as an oversupply of or reduced demand for industrial properties) and the local economic climate. business layoffs, downsizing, industry slowdowns, changing demographics and other factors may adversely impact california economic climate. because of the number of properties the company has located in california, a downturn in california economy or real estate conditions could adversely affect the company financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to its stockholders and the market price of its stock. the company faces risks associated with short-term liquid investments. the company continues to have significant cash balances that it invests in a variety of short-term investments that are intended to preserve principal value and maintain a high degree of liquidity while providing current income. from time to time, these investments may include (either directly or indirectly): direct obligations issued by the u.s. treasury; obligations issued or guaranteed by the u.s. government or its agencies; taxable municipal securities; obligations (including certificates of deposit) of banks and thrifts; 23 table of contents commercial paper and other instruments consisting of short-term u.s. dollar denominated obligations issued by corporations and banks; repurchase agreements collateralized by corporate and asset-backed obligations; both registered and unregistered money market funds; and other highly rated short-term securities. investments in these securities and funds are not insured against loss of principal. under certain circumstances the company may be required to redeem all or part of its investment, and its right to redeem some or all of its investment may be delayed or suspended. in addition, there is no guarantee that the company investments in these securities or funds will be redeemable at par value. a decline in the value of the company investment or a delay or suspension of its right to redeem may have an adverse effect on the company results of operations or financial condition. the company may experience losses that its insurance does not cover. the company carries commercial liability, property and rental loss insurance covering all the properties that it owns and manages in types and amounts that it believes are adequate and appropriate given the relative risks applicable to the property, the cost of coverage and industry practice. certain losses, such as those due to terrorism, windstorms, floods or seismic activity, may be insured subject to certain limitations, including large deductibles or co-payments and policy limits. although the company has obtained coverage for certain acts of terrorism, with policy specifications and insured limits that the company considers commercially reasonable given the cost and availability of such coverage, the company cannot be certain that it will be able to renew coverage on comparable terms or collect under such policies. in addition, there are other types of losses, such as those from riots, bio-terrorism or acts of war, that are not generally insured in the company industry because it is not economically feasible to do so. the company may incur material losses in excess of insurance proceeds and it may not be able to continue to obtain insurance at commercially reasonable rates. given current market conditions, there can also be no assurance that the insurance companies providing the company coverage will not fail or have difficulty meeting their coverage obligations to the company. furthermore, the company cannot assure you that its insurance companies will be able to continue to offer products with sufficient coverage at commercially reasonable rates. if the company experiences a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds its insured limits with respect to one or more of its properties or if the company insurance companies fail to meet their coverage commitments to it in the event of an insured loss, then the company could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties, as well as the anticipated future revenue from those properties and, if there is recourse debt, then the company would remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the properties. moreover, as the general partner of the operating partnership, the parent company generally will be liable for all of the operating partnership unsatisfied recourse obligations, including any obligations incurred by the operating partnership as the general partner of co-investment ventures. any such losses or higher insurance costs could adversely affect the company financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to the parent company stockholders and distributions to the operating partnership unitholders and the market price of the parent company stock. a number of the company properties are located in areas that are known to be subject to earthquake activity. u.s. properties located in active seismic areas include properties in the san francisco bay area, los angeles, and seattle. the company largest concentration of such properties is in california where, on an owned and managed basis, as of december 31, 2009, the company had 280 industrial buildings, aggregating approximately 30.0 million square feet and representing 22.6% of its industrial operating properties based on aggregate square footage and 21.0% based on industrial annualized base rent, on an owned and managed basis. international properties located in active seismic areas include tokyo and osaka, japan and mexico city, mexico. the company carries earthquake insurance on all of its properties located in areas historically subject to seismic activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles that it believes are commercially reasonable. the company evaluates its earthquake insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants. 24 table of contents a number of the company properties are located in areas that are known to be subject to hurricane and/or flood risk. the company carries hurricane and flood hazard insurance on all of its properties located in areas historically subject to such activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles that it believes are commercially reasonable. the company evaluates its insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants. contingent or unknown liabilities could adversely affect the company financial condition. the company has acquired and may in the future acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities. as a result, if a liability were asserted against the company based upon ownership of any of these entities or properties, then the company might have to pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely affect its cash flow. contingent or unknown liabilities with respect to entities or properties acquired might include: liabilities for environmental conditions; losses in excess of the company insured coverage; accrued but unpaid liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; tax, legal and regulatory liabilities; claims of customers, vendors or other persons dealing with the company predecessors prior to its formation or acquisition transactions that had not been asserted or were unknown prior to the company formation or acquisition transactions; and claims for indemnification by the general partners, officers and directors and others indemnified by the former owners of the company properties. risks associated with the company dependence on key personnel the company depends on the efforts of its executive officers and other key employees. from time to time, the company personnel and their roles may change. as part of the company cost savings plan, the company has reduced its total global headcount and may do so again in the future. while the company believes that it has retained its key talent, left its global platform intact and can find suitable employees to meet its personnel needs, the loss of key personnel, any change in their roles, or the limitation of their availability could adversely affect the company financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to the parent company stockholders and distributions to the operating partnership unitholders, and the market price of the parent company stock. the company does not have employment agreements with any of its executive officers. because the company compensation packages include equity-based incentives, pressure on the parent company stock price or limitations on the company ability to award such incentives could affect the company ability to offer competitive compensation packages to its executives and key employees. if the company is unable to continue to attract and retain its executive officers, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain key employees become more expensive, the company performance and competitive position could be materially adversely affected. conflicts of interest risks some of the company directors and executive officers are involved in other real estate activities and investments and, therefore, may have conflicts of interest with the company. from time to time, certain of the company executive officers and directors may own interests in other real-estate related businesses and investments, including de minimis holdings of the equity securities of public and private real estate companies. the company executive officers involvement in other real estate-related activities could divert their attention from the company day-to-day operations. the company executive officers have entered into non-competition agreements with the company pursuant to which they have agreed not to engage in any activities, directly or indirectly, in respect of commercial real estate, and not to make any investment in respect of 25 table of contents any industrial or retail real estate, other than through ownership of not more than 5% of the outstanding shares of a public company engaged in such activities or through certain specified investments. state law may limit the company ability to enforce these agreements. the company will not acquire any properties from its executive officers, directors or their affiliates unless the transaction is approved by a majority of the disinterested and independent (as defined by the rules of the new york stock exchange) members of the parent company board of directors with respect to that transaction. the parent company role as general partner of the operating partnership may conflict with the interests of its stockholders. as the general partner of the operating partnership, the parent company has fiduciary obligations to the operating partnership limited partners, the discharge of which may conflict with the interests of the parent company stockholders. in addition, those persons holding limited partnership units will have the right to vote as a class on certain amendments to the operating partnership partnership agreement and individually to approve certain amendments that would adversely affect their rights. the limited partners may exercise these voting rights in a manner that conflicts with the interests of the parent company stockholders. in addition, under the terms of the operating partnership partnership agreement, holders of limited partnership units will have approval rights with respect to specified transactions that affect all stockholders but which they may not exercise in a manner that reflects the interests of all stockholders. risks associated with government regulations the costs of compliance with environmental laws and regulations and any related potential liability could exceed the company budgets for these items. under various environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be liable for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products at, on, under, in or from its property. the costs of removal or remediation of such substances could be substantial. these laws typically impose liability and clean-up responsibility without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. even if more than one person may have been responsible for the contamination, each person covered by the environmental laws may be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs incurred. in addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages based on personal injury, property damage or other costs, including investigation and clean-up costs, resulting from the environmental contamination. environmental laws in some countries, including the united states, also require that owners or operators of buildings containing asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos, adequately inform or train those who may come into contact with asbestos and undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, in the event that asbestos is disturbed during building renovation or demolition. these laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos. some of the company properties are known to contain asbestos-containing building materials. in addition, some of the company properties are leased or have been leased, in part, to owners and operators of businesses that use, store or otherwise handle petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, creating a potential for the release of such hazardous or toxic substances. further, certain of the company properties are on, adjacent to or near other properties that have contained or currently contain petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, or upon which others have engaged, are engaged or may engage in activities that may release such hazardous or toxic substances. from time to time, the company may acquire properties, or interests in properties, with known adverse environmental conditions where the company believes that the environmental liabilities associated with these conditions are quantifiable and that the acquisition will yield a superior risk-adjusted return. in such an instance, the company underwrites the costs of environmental investigation, clean-up and monitoring into the acquisition cost and obtains appropriate environmental insurance for the property. further, in connection with certain divested properties, the company has agreed to remain responsible for, and to bear the cost of, remediating or monitoring certain environmental conditions on the properties. 26 table of contents at the time of acquisition, the company subjects all of its properties to a phase i or similar environmental assessments by independent environmental consultants and the company may have additional phase ii testing performed upon the consultant recommendation. these environmental assessments have not revealed, and the company is not aware of, any environmental liability that it believes would have a material adverse effect on the company financial condition or results of operations taken as a whole. nonetheless, it is possible that the assessments did not reveal all environmental liabilities and that there are material environmental liabilities unknown to the company, or that known environmental conditions may give rise to liabilities that are greater than the company anticipated. further, the company properties current environmental condition may be affected by customers, the condition of land, operations in the vicinity of the properties (such as releases from underground storage tanks) or by unrelated third parties. if the costs of compliance with existing or future environmental laws and regulations exceed the company budgets for these items, then the company financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to the parent company stockholders and distributions to the operating partnership unitholders, and the market price of the parent company stock could be adversely affected. compliance or failure to comply with the americans with disabilities act and other similar regulations could result in substantial costs. under the americans with disabilities act, places of public accommodation must meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the award of damages to private litigants. if the company is required to make unanticipated expenditures to comply with the americans with disabilities act, including removing access barriers, then the company cash flow and the amounts available for dividends to the parent company stockholders and distributions to the operating partnership unitholders may be adversely affected. the company properties are also subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life-safety requirements. the company could incur fines or private damage awards if it fails to comply with these requirements. while the company believes that its properties are currently in material compliance with these regulatory requirements, the requirements may change or new requirements may be imposed that could require significant unanticipated expenditures by the company that will affect its cash flow and results of operations. federal income tax risks the parent company failure to qualify as a real estate investment trust would have serious adverse consequences to its stockholders. the parent company elected to be taxed as a real estate investment trust under sections 856 through 860 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the internal revenue code ), commencing with its taxable year ended december 31, 1997. the parent company believes it has operated so as to qualify as a real estate investment trust under the internal revenue code and believes that the parent company current organization and method of operation comply with the rules and regulations promulgated under the internal revenue code to enable it to continue to qualify as a real estate investment trust. however, it is possible that the parent company has been organized or has operated in a manner that would not allow it to qualify as a real estate investment trust, or that the parent company future operations could cause it to fail to qualify. qualification as a real estate investment trust requires the parent company to satisfy numerous requirements (some on an annual and others on a quarterly basis) established under highly technical and complex sections of the internal revenue code for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations, and involves the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within the parent company control. for example, in order to qualify as a real estate investment trust, the parent company must derive at least 95% of its gross income in any year from qualifying sources. in addition, the parent company must pay dividends to its stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of its real estate investment trust taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding capital gains) and must satisfy specified asset tests on a quarterly basis. while historically the parent company has satisfied the distribution requirement discussed above by making cash distributions to its stockholders, the parent company may choose to satisfy this requirement by making distributions of cash or other property, including, in limited circumstances, its own stock. for distributions with respect to taxable years ending on or before december 31, 2011, and in some cases declared as late as december 31, 2012, recent internal revenue 27 table of contents service guidance allows the parent company to satisfy up to 90% of this distribution requirement through the distribution of shares of its stock, if certain conditions are met. the provisions of the internal revenue code and applicable treasury regulations regarding qualification as a real estate investment trust are more complicated in the parent company case because it holds its assets through the operating partnership. legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly change the tax laws with respect to qualification as a real estate investment trust or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification. however, the parent company is not aware of any pending tax legislation that would adversely affect its ability to qualify as a real estate investment trust. if the parent company fails to qualify as a real estate investment trust in any taxable year, the parent company will be required to pay federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on its taxable income at regular corporate rates. unless the parent company is entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, the parent company would be disqualified from treatment as a real estate investment trust for the four taxable years following the year in which the parent company lost its qualification. if the parent company lost its real estate investment trust status, the parent company net earnings available for investment or distribution to stockholders would be significantly reduced for each of the years involved. in addition, the parent company would no longer be required to make distributions to its stockholders. furthermore, the parent company owns a direct or indirect interest in certain subsidiary reits which elected to be taxed as reits under sections 856 through 860 of the internal revenue code. provided that each subsidiary reit qualifies as a reit, the parent company interest in such subsidiary reit will be treated as a qualifying real estate asset for purposes of the reit asset tests, and any dividend income or gains derived by the parent company from such subsidiary reit will generally be treated as income that qualifies for purposes of the reit gross income tests. to qualify as a reit, the subsidiary reit must independently satisfy all of the reit qualification requirements. if such subsidiary reit were to fail to qualify as a reit, and certain relief provisions did not apply, it would be treated as a regular taxable corporation and its income would be subject to united states federal income tax. in addition, a failure of the subsidiary reit to qualify as a reit would have an adverse effect on the parent company ability to comply with the reit income and asset tests, and thus the parent company ability to qualify as a reit. certain property transfers may generate prohibited transaction income, resulting in a penalty tax on gain attributable to the transaction. from time to time, the company may transfer or otherwise dispose of some of its properties, including by contributing properties to its co-investment venture funds. under the internal revenue code, any gain resulting from transfers of properties the company holds as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is treated as income from a prohibited transaction subject to a 100% penalty tax. the company does not believe that its transfers or disposals of property or its contributions of properties into its co-investment ventures are prohibited transactions. however, whether property is held for investment purposes is a question of fact that depends on all the facts and circumstances surrounding the particular transaction. the internal revenue service may contend that certain transfers or dispositions of properties by the company or contributions of properties into the company co-investment venture funds are prohibited transactions. while the company believes that the internal revenue service would not prevail in any such dispute, if the internal revenue service were to argue successfully that a transfer, disposition, or contribution of property constituted a prohibited transaction, the company would be required to pay a 100% penalty tax on any gain allocable to the company from the prohibited transaction. in addition, income from a prohibited transaction might adversely affect the company ability to satisfy the income tests for qualification as a real estate investment trust. the parent company may in the future choose to pay dividends in its own stock, in which case you may be required to pay tax in excess of the cash you receive. the parent company may distribute taxable dividends that are partially payable in cash and partially payable in its stock. under recent irs guidance, up to 90% of any such taxable dividend with respect to calendar years 2008 through 2011, and in some cases declared as late as december 31, 2012, could be payable in the parent company stock if certain conditions are met. taxable stockholders receiving such dividends will be required to include the full 28 table of contents amount of the dividend as ordinary income to the extent of the parent company current and accumulated earnings and profits for united states federal income tax purposes. as a result, a u.s. stockholder may be required to pay tax with respect to such dividends in excess of the cash received. if a u.s. stockholder sells the stock it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of the parent company stock at the time of the sale. furthermore, with respect to non-u.s. stockholders, the parent company may be required to withhold u.s. tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in stock. in addition, if a significant number of the parent company stockholders determine to sell shares of its stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, it may put downward pressure on the trading price of the parent company stock. legislative or regulatory action could adversely affect the parent company stockholders. in recent years, numerous legislative, judicial and administrative changes have been made to the federal income tax laws applicable to investments in reits and similar entities. additional changes to tax laws are likely to continue to occur in the future, and there can be no assurance that any such changes will not adversely affect the taxation of the parent company, the operating partnership, any stockholder of the parent company or any limited partner of the operating partnership. risks associated with ownership of the parent company stock limitations in the parent company charter and bylaws could prevent a change in control. certain provisions of the parent company charter and bylaws may delay, defer or prevent a change in control or other transaction that could provide the holders of the parent company common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for the common stock. to maintain the parent company qualification as a real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of the parent company outstanding stock may be owned, actually or constructively, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the internal revenue code to include certain entities) during the last half of a taxable year after the first taxable year for which a real estate investment trust election is made. furthermore, the parent company common stock must be held by a minimum of 100 persons for at least 335 days of a 12-month taxable year (or a proportionate part of a short tax year). in addition, if the parent company, or an owner of 10% or more of the parent company stock, actually or constructively owns 10% or more of one of the parent company customers (or a customer of any partnership in which the company is a partner), then the rent received by the parent company (either directly or through any such partnership) from that customer will not be qualifying income for purposes of the real estate investment trust gross income tests of the internal revenue code. to help the parent company maintain its qualification as a real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes, the parent company prohibits the ownership, actually or by virtue of the constructive ownership provisions of the internal revenue code, by any single person, of more than 9.8% (by value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the issued and outstanding shares of each of the parent company common stock, series l preferred stock, series m preferred stock, series o preferred stock, and series p preferred stock (unless such limitations are waived by the parent company board of directors). the parent company refers to this limitation as the ownership limit. the charter provides that shares acquired or held in violation of the ownership limit will be transferred to a trust for the benefit of a designated charitable beneficiary. the charter further provides that any person who acquires shares in violation of the ownership limit will not be entitled to any dividends on the shares or be entitled to vote the shares or receive any proceeds from the subsequent sale of the shares in excess of the lesser of the price paid for the shares or the amount realized from the sale. a transfer of shares in violation of the above limits may be void under certain circumstances. the ownership limit may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control and, therefore, could adversely affect the parent company stockholders ability to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for the shares of the parent company common stock in connection with such transaction. the parent company charter authorizes it to issue additional shares of common and preferred stock and to establish the preferences, rights and other terms of any series or class of preferred stock that the parent company issues. the parent company board of directors could establish a series or class of preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction, including a change in control, that might involve a premium price for the common stock or otherwise be in the best interests of the parent company stockholders. 29 table of contents the parent company charter and bylaws and maryland law also contain other provisions that may impede various actions by stockholders without the approval of the parent company board of directors, which in turn may delay, defer or prevent a transaction, including a change in control. the parent company charter and bylaws include the following provisions: directors may be removed only for cause and only upon a two-thirds vote of stockholders; the parent company board can fix the number of directors within set limits (which limits are subject to change by the parent company board), and fill vacant directorships upon the vote of a majority of the remaining directors, even though less than a quorum, or in the case of a vacancy resulting from an increase in the size of the board, a majority of the entire board; stockholders must give advance notice to nominate directors or propose business for consideration at a stockholders meeting; and the request of the holders of 50% or more of the parent company common stock is necessary for stockholders to call a special meeting. maryland law includes the following provisions: a two-thirds vote of stockholders is required to amend the parent company charter; and stockholders may only act by written consent with the unanimous approval of all stockholders entitled to vote on the matter in question. in addition, the parent company board could elect to adopt, without stockholder approval, other provisions under maryland law that may impede a change in control. if the parent company issues additional securities, then the investment of existing stockholders will be diluted. as the parent company is a real estate investment trust, the company is dependent on external sources of capital and the parent company may issue common or preferred stock and the operating partnership may issue debt securities to fund the company future capital needs. the company has the authority to issue shares of common stock or other equity or debt securities, and to cause the operating partnership or amb property ii, l.p., one of the company subsidiaries, to issue limited partnership units, in exchange for property or otherwise. existing stockholders have no preemptive right to acquire any additional securities issued by the operating partnership, amb property ii, l.p., or the parent company and any issuance of additional equity securities may adversely affect the market price of the parent company stock and could result in dilution of an existing stockholder investment. earnings, cash dividends, asset value and market interest rates affect the price of the parent company stock. as the parent company is a real estate investment trust, the market value of the parent company equity securities, in general, is based primarily upon the market perception of the parent company growth potential and its current and potential future earnings and cash dividends. the market value of the parent company equity securities is based secondarily upon the market value of its underlying real estate assets. for this reason, shares of the parent company stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than its net asset value per share. to the extent that the parent company retains operating cash flow for investment purposes, working capital reserves, or other purposes, these retained funds, while increasing the value of the parent company underlying assets, may not correspondingly increase the market price of its stock. the parent company failure to meet the market expectations with regard to future earnings and cash dividends likely would adversely affect the market price of the parent company stock. further, the distribution yield on the stock (as a percentage of the price of the stock) relative to market interest rates may also influence the price of the parent company stock. an increase in market interest rates might lead prospective purchasers of the parent company stock to expect a higher distribution yield, which would adversely affect the parent company stock market price. additionally, if the market price of the parent company stock declines significantly, then the operating partnership might breach certain covenants with respect to its debt obligations, which could adversely affect the company liquidity and ability to make future 30 table of contents acquisitions and the parent company ability to pay cash dividends to its stockholders and the operating partnership ability to pay distributions to its unitholders. the parent company board of directors has decided to align the parent company regular dividend payments with the projected taxable income from recurring operations alone. the parent company may make special distributions going forward, as necessary, related to taxable income associated with any asset dispositions and gain activity. in the past, the parent company board of directors has suspended dividends to the parent company stockholders, and it is possible that they may do so again in the future, or decide to pay dividends in the parent company own stock as provided for in the internal revenue code. the parent company could change its investment and financing policies without a vote of stockholders. subject to the parent company current investment policy to maintain the parent company qualification as a real estate investment trust (unless a change is approved by the parent company board of directors under certain circumstances), the parent company board of directors determines the company investment and financing policies, its growth strategy and its debt, capitalization, distribution and operating policies. the parent company board of directors may revise or amend these strategies and policies at any time without a vote of stockholders. any such changes may not serve the interests of all of the parent company stockholders or the operating partnership unitholders and could adversely affect the company financial condition or results of operations, including its ability to pay cash dividends to the parent company stockholders and distributions to the operating partnership unitholders. shares available for future sale could adversely affect the market price of the parent company common stock. the operating partnership and amb property ii, l.p. had 3,376,141 common limited partnership units issued and outstanding as of december 31, 2009, all of which are currently exchangeable on a one-for-one basis into shares of the parent company common stock. in the future, the operating partnership or amb property ii, l.p. may issue additional limited partnership units, and the parent company may issue shares of common stock, in connection with the acquisition of properties or in private placements. these shares of common stock and the shares of common stock issuable upon exchange of limited partnership units may be sold in the public securities markets over time, pursuant to registration rights that the parent company has granted, or may grant in connection with future issuances, or pursuant to rule 144 under the securities act of 1933. in addition, common stock issued under the company stock option and incentive plans may also be sold in the market pursuant to registration statements that the parent company has filed or pursuant to rule 144. as of december 31, 2009, under the company stock option and incentive plans, the company had 6,079,937 shares of common stock reserved and available for future issuance, had outstanding options to purchase 8,107,697 shares of common stock (of which 5,807,455 are vested and exercisable and 3,200,220 have exercise prices below market value at december 31, 2009) and had 918,753 unvested restricted shares of common stock outstanding. future sales of a substantial number of shares of the parent company common stock in the market or the perception that such sales might occur could adversely affect the market price of the parent company common stock. further, the existence of the common limited partnership units of the operating partnership and amb property ii, l.p. and the shares of the parent company common stock reserved for issuance upon exchange of limited partnership units and the exercise of options, and registration rights referred to above, may adversely affect the terms upon which the parent company is able to obtain additional capital through the sale of equity securities. risks associated with the company disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting the company business could be adversely impacted if it has deficiencies in its disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting. the design and effectiveness of the company disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors, misstatements or misrepresentations. while management will continue to review the effectiveness of the company disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over 31 table of contents financial reporting, there can be no guarantee that the company internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. furthermore, the company disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting with respect to entities that the company does not control or manage or third-party entities that the company may acquire may be substantially more limited than those the company maintains with respect to the subsidiaries that the company has controlled or managed over the course of time. deficiencies, including any material weakness, in the company internal control over financial reporting which may occur in the future could result in misstatements of the company results of operations, restatements of its financial statements, a decline in the parent company stock price, or otherwise materially adversely affect the company business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 91 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the risk of loss from adverse changes in market prices, interest rates and international exchange rates. the company future earnings and cash flows are dependent upon prevailing market rates. accordingly, the company manages its market risk by matching projected cash inflows from operating, investing and financing activities with projected cash outflows for debt service, acquisitions, capital expenditures, distributions to stockholders and unitholders, payments to noteholders, and other cash requirements. the majority of the company outstanding debt has fixed interest rates, which minimize the risk of fluctuating interest rates. the company exposure to market risk includes interest rate fluctuations in connection with its credit facilities and other variable rate borrowings and its ability to incur more debt without stockholder and unitholder approval, thereby increasing its debt service obligations, which could adversely affect its cash flows. as of december 31, 2009, the company had one outstanding interest rate swap, four outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts and two interest rate caps with an aggregate notional amount of $836.4 million (in u.s. dollars). see financial instruments below. the table below summarizes the maturities and interest rates associated with the company fixed and variable rate debt outstanding at book value and estimated fair value before unamortized net discounts of $9.8 million as of december 31, 2009 (dollars in thousands): 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 thereafter total fair value fixed rate debt(1) $ 194,579 $ 135,794 $ 507,872 $ 344,755 $ 6,275 $ 783,792 $ 1,973,067 $ 1,964,410 average interest rate 7.4 % 6.6 % 5.8 % 6.2 % 6.8 % 6.4 % 6.3 % n/a variable rate debt(2) $ 432,021 $ 383,232 $ 384,390 $ 19,611 $ $ 30,085 $ 1,249,339 $ 1,223,420 average interest rate 1.2 % 1.4 % 2.9 % 1.9 % % 1.7 % 1.8 % n/a interest payments $ 19,894 $ 14,329 $ 40,427 $ 21,711 $ 425 $ 50,543 $ 147,329 n/a (1) represents 61.2% of all outstanding debt at december 31, 2009. (2) represents 38.8% of all outstanding debt at december 31, 2009. if market rates of interest on the company variable rate debt increased or decreased by 10%, then the increase or decrease in interest cost on the company variable rate debt would be $2.3 million (net of the swap) annually. as of december 31, 2009, the book value and the estimated fair value of the company total consolidated debt (both secured and unsecured) were $3.2 billion and $3.2 billion, respectively, based on the company estimate of current market interest rates. as of december 31, 2008, the book value and the estimated fair value of the company total consolidated debt (both secured and unsecured) were $4.0 billion and $3.5 billion, respectively, based on our estimate of current market interest rates. as of december 31, 2009 and december 31, 2008, variable rate debt comprised 38.8% and 38.0%, respectively, of all the company outstanding debt. variable rate debt was $1.2 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively, as of december 31, 2009 and december 31, 2008. financial instruments. the company records all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value as an asset or liability. for derivatives that qualify as cash flow hedges, the offset to this entry is to accumulated other comprehensive income as a separate component of stockholders equity for the parent company, partners capital for the operating partnership or income. for derivatives which do not qualify as cash flow hedges, the offset to the change in fair value on the derivative asset or liability is recorded directly in earnings as gains or losses through other income (expenses). for revenues or expenses denominated in non-functional currencies, the company may use derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk. the company derivative financial instruments in effect at december 31, 2009 were one interest rate swap and two interest rate caps hedging cash flows of variable rate borrowings based on u.s. libor and four foreign exchange forward contracts hedging intercompany loans. the company does not hold or issue derivatives for trading purposes. 91 table of contents the following table summarizes the company financial instruments as of december 31, 2009 (in thousands): march 31, september 4, november 1, october 1, notional related derivatives 2010 2010 2010 2012 amount fair value interest rate swaps (usd) trade notional amount $ 130,000 $ 130,000 receive floating(%) 3 mo. us libor pay fixed rate(%) 2.70 % fair market value (usd) $ (1,992 ) $ (1,992 ) interest rate caps (usd) trade notional amount $ 7,319 $ 7,319 underlying rate 1 mo. us libor strike price 3.15 % fair market value (usd) $ trade notional amount $ 26,500 $ 26,500 underlying rate 1 mo. us libor strike price 4.25 % fair market value (usd) $ 141 $ 141 foreign exchange forward contracts fx forward contract, euro trade notional amount (usd) $ 339,732 $ 339,732 forward strike rate 1.4380 3/31/2010 forward rate as of 12/31/2009 1.4328 fair market value (usd) $ 1,228 $ 1,228 fx forward contract, cad trade notional amount (usd) $ 189,879 $ 189,879 forward strike rate 1.0467 3/31/10 forward rate as of 12/31/2009 1.0466 fair market value (usd) $ (20 ) $ (20 ) fx forward contract, cad trade notional amount (usd) $ 74,053 $ 74,053 forward strike rate 1.0463 3/31/10 forward rate as of 12/31/2009 1.0466 fair market value (usd) $ 16 $ 16 fx forward contract, gbp trade notional amount (usd) $ 68,949 $ 68,949 forward strike rate 1.6208 3/31/10 forward rate as of 12/31/2009 1.6169 fair market value (usd) $ 168 $ 168 $ 836,432 $ (459 ) international operations. the company exposure to market risk also includes foreign currency exchange rate risk. the u.s. dollar is the functional currency for the company subsidiaries operating in the united states, mexico and certain subsidiaries in europe. the functional currency for the company subsidiaries operating outside the united states, other than mexico and certain subsidiaries in europe, is generally the local currency of the country in which the entity or property is located, mitigating the effect of foreign exchange gains and losses. the company subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the u.s. dollar translate their financial statements into u.s. dollars. assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rate in effect as of the financial statement date. the company translates income statement accounts using the average exchange rate for the period and significant nonrecurring transactions using the rate on the transaction date. the (losses) gains resulting from the translation are included in accumulated other comprehensive income as a separate component of stockholders equity for the parent company or partners capital for the operating partnership and totaled $(22.0) million and $23.6 million for the years ended december 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. the company international subsidiaries may have transactions denominated in currencies other than their functional currency. in these instances, non-monetary assets and liabilities are reflected at the historical exchange 92 table of contents rate, monetary assets and liabilities are remeasured at the exchange rate in effect at the end of the period and income statement accounts are remeasured at the average exchange rate for the period. the company also records gains or losses in the income statement when a transaction with a third party, denominated in a currency other than the entity functional currency, is settled and the functional currency cash flows realized are more or less than expected based upon the exchange rate in effect when the transaction was initiated. for the years ended december 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, total unrealized and realized (losses) gains from remeasurement and translation included in the company results of operations were $(7.2) million, $(5.7) million and $3.9 million, respectively.risk factors 14 risk factors business risks the company operations involve various risks that could have adverse consequences to it. these risks include, among others: risks of the current economic environment disruptions in the global capital and credit markets may adversely affect the company business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. global market and economic conditions have been unprecedented and challenging with tighter credit conditions, slower growth and recession in most major economies during the last two years. although signs of recovery may exist, there are continued concerns about the systemic impact of inflation, the availability and cost of credit, a declining real estate market, and geopolitical issues that contribute to increased market volatility and uncertain expectations for the global economy. these conditions, combined with declining business activity levels and consumer confidence, increased unemployment and volatile oil prices, contributed to unprecedented levels of volatility in the capital markets during the last two years. any additional, continued or recurring disruptions in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect the company business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. as a result of these market conditions, the cost and availability of credit have been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide funding to businesses and consumers. these factors have led to a decrease in spending by businesses and consumers alike, and a corresponding decrease in global infrastructure spending. while the company currently believes that it has sufficient working capital and capacity under its credit facilities in the near term, continued or recurring turbulence in the global markets and economies and prolonged declines in business and consumer spending may adversely affect its liquidity and financial condition, as well as the liquidity and financial condition of its customers. if these market conditions persist, recur or worsen in the long term, they may limit the company ability, and the ability of its customers, to timely replace maturing liabilities, and access the credit markets to meet liquidity needs. if the long-term debt ratings of the operating partnership fall below its current levels, the borrowing cost of debt under its unsecured credit facilities and certain term loans may increase. in addition, if the long-term debt ratings of the operating partnership fall below investment grade, it may be unable to request borrowings in currencies other than u.s. dollars or japanese yen, as applicable; however, the lack of other currency borrowings does not affect its ability to fully draw down under the credit facilities or term loans. while the operating partnership currently does not expect its long-term debt ratings to fall below investment grade, in the event that its ratings do fall below those levels, it may be unable to exercise its options to extend the term of its credit facilities, and the loss of its ability to borrow in foreign currencies could affect its ability to optimally hedge its borrowings against foreign currency exchange rate changes. in addition, the company cannot assure you that additional, continuing or recurring long-term disruptions in the global economy and the continuation of tighter credit conditions among, and potential failures of, third-party financial institutions as a result of such disruptions will not have an adverse effect on the operating partnership borrowing capacity and liquidity position. the operating partnership access to funds under its credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the lenders that are parties to such facilities to meet their funding commitments to the operating partnership. the company cannot assure you that if one of the operating partnership lenders fails (some of whom are lenders under a number of the operating partnership facilities), the operating partnership will be successful in finding a replacement lender and, as a result, its borrowing capacity under the applicable facilities may be permanently reduced. if the company does not have sufficient cash flows and income from its operations to meet its financial commitments and those lenders are not able to meet their funding commitments to the operating partnership, the company business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. 14 table of contents certain of the company third-party indebtedness is held by the company consolidated or unconsolidated joint ventures. in the event that the company joint venture partner is unable to meet its obligations under the joint venture agreements or the third-party debt agreements, the company may elect to pay its joint venture partner portion of debt to avoid foreclosure on the mortgaged property or permit the lender to foreclose on the mortgaged property to meet the joint venture debt obligations. in either case, the company could face a loss of income and asset value on the property. there can be no assurance that the markets will stabilize in the near future or that the company will choose to or be able to increase its levels of capital deployment at such time or ever. in addition, a continued increase in the cost of credit and inability to access the capital and credit markets may adversely impact the occupancy of the company properties, the disposition of its properties, private capital raising and contribution of properties to its co-investment ventures. for example, an inability to fully lease the company properties may result in such properties not meeting the company investment criteria for contributions to its co-investment ventures. if the company is unable to contribute completed development properties to its co-investment ventures or sell its completed development projects to third parties, the company will not be able to recognize gains from the contribution or sale of such properties and, as a result, the net income available to the parent company common stockholders and its funds from operations will decrease. additionally, business layoffs, downsizing, industry slowdowns and other similar factors that affect the company customers may adversely impact its business and financial condition. furthermore, general uncertainty in the real estate markets has resulted in conditions where the pricing of certain real estate assets may be difficult due to uncertainty with respect to capitalization rates and valuations, among other things, which may add to the difficulty of buyers or the company co-investment ventures to obtain financing on favorable terms to acquire such properties or cause potential buyers to not complete acquisitions of such properties. the market uncertainty with respect to capitalization rates and real estate valuations also adversely impacts the company net asset value. in addition, the operating partnership may face difficulty in refinancing its mortgage debt, or may be unable to refinance such debt at all, if its property values significantly decline. such a decline may also cause a default under the loan-to-value covenants in some of the company joint ventures mortgage debt, which may require its joint ventures to re-margin or pay down a portion of the applicable debt. there can be no assurance, however, that in such an event, the company will be able to do so to prevent foreclosure. in the event that the company does not have sufficient cash available to it through its operations to continue operating its business as usual, the company may need to find alternative ways to increase its liquidity. such alternatives may include, without limitation, divesting itself of properties, whether or not they otherwise meet the company strategic objectives to keep in the long term, at less than optimal terms; issuing and selling its debt and equity in public or private transactions under less than optimal conditions; entering into leases with its customers at lower rental rates or less than optimal terms; or entering into lease renewals with its existing customers without an increase in rental rates at turnover. there can be no assurance, however, that such alternative ways to increase the company liquidity will be available to the company. additionally, taking such measures to increase the company liquidity may adversely affect its business, results of operations and financial condition. as of december 31, 2010, the company had $198.4 million in cash and cash equivalents. the company available cash and cash equivalents are held in accounts managed by third-party financial institutions and consist of invested cash and cash in its operating accounts. the invested cash is invested in money market funds that invest solely in direct obligations of the government of the united states or in time deposits with certain financial institutions. to date, the company has experienced no loss or lack of access to its invested cash or cash equivalents; however, the company can provide no assurances that access to its invested cash and cash equivalents will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. at any point in time, the company also has a significant amount of cash deposits in its operating accounts that are with third-party financial institutions, and, as of december 31, 2010, the amount in such deposits was approximately $171.3 million on a consolidated basis. these balances exceed the federal deposit insurance corporation insurance limits. while the company monitors daily the cash balances in its operating accounts and adjusts the cash balances as appropriate, these cash balances could be impacted if the underlying financial institutions fail or be subject to other adverse conditions in the financial markets. to date, the company has experienced no loss or lack of access to cash in its operating accounts. 15 table of contents the price per share of the parent company stock may decline or fluctuate significantly. the market price per share of the parent company common stock may decline or fluctuate significantly in response to many factors, including: general market and economic conditions; actual or anticipated variations in the parent company operating results or dividends or the parent company payment of dividends in shares of its stock; changes in its funds from operations or earnings estimates; difficulties or inability to access capital or extend or refinance existing debt; breaches of covenants and defaults under the operating partnership credit facilities and other debt; decreasing (or uncertainty in) real estate valuations, market rents and rental occupancy rates; our proposed merger transaction with prologis, including litigation related to the merger, adverse changes in prologis business or financial condition and any decreases in the market price of prologis stock; a change in analyst ratings or the operating partnership credit ratings; general stock and bond market conditions, including changes in interest rates on fixed income securities, that may lead prospective purchasers of the parent company stock to demand a higher annual yield from future dividends; adverse market reaction to any additional debt the operating partnership incurs in the future or any other capital market activity the company may conduct, including additional issuances of parent company stock; adverse market reaction to the company strategic initiatives and their implementation; changes in market valuations of similar companies; publication of research reports about the parent company or the real estate industry; the general reputation of real estate investment trusts and the attractiveness of their equity securities in comparison to other equity securities (including securities issued by other real estate-based companies); additions or departures of key management personnel; actions by institutional stockholders; speculation in the press or investment community; terrorist activity may adversely affect the markets in which the company securities trade, possibly increasing market volatility and causing the further erosion of business and consumer confidence and spending; governmental regulatory action and changes in tax laws; and the realization of any of the other risk factors included in this report. many of the factors listed above are beyond the company control. these factors may cause the market price of shares of the parent company common stock to decline, regardless of its financial condition, results of operations, business or its prospects. risks related to our proposed merger transaction with prologis we will be subject to various uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the merger is pending that could adversely affect our financial results. uncertainty about the effect of the merger on employees, suppliers and customers may have an adverse effect on us. these uncertainties may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the merger is completed and for a period of time thereafter, and could cause customers, suppliers and others who deal with us to 16 table of contents seek to change existing business relationships. employee retention and recruitment may be particularly challenging prior to completion of the merger, as employees and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company. the pursuit of the merger and the preparation for the integration may place a significant burden on management and internal resources. any significant diversion of management attention away from ongoing business and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could affect our financial results. in addition, the merger agreement restricts us, without prologis consent, from making certain acquisitions and dispositions, from engaging in certain capital raising transactions and taking other specified actions while the merger is pending. these restrictions may prevent us from pursuing attractive business opportunities and making other changes to our business prior to completion of the merger or termination of the merger agreement. pending litigation against amb and prologis could result in an injunction preventing completion of the merger and the payment of damages in the event the merger is completed and/or may adversely affect our company business, financial condition or results of operation before the merger and/or the combined company business, financial condition or results of operations following the merger. in connection with the merger, purported stockholders of prologis have filed two putative stockholder class action lawsuits against us and prologis, among others. among other remedies, the plaintiffs seek to enjoin the merger. we may be subject to additional stockholder class action lawsuits during the pendency of the merger. if a final settlement is not reached, these lawsuits could prevent or delay completion of the merger and result in substantial costs to us, including any costs associated with the indemnification of directors. the defense or settlement of any lawsuit or claim that remains unresolved may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and/or the combined company business, financial condition or results of operations. we may be unable to obtain in the anticipated timeframe, or at all, satisfaction of all conditions to complete the merger or, in order to do so, we may be required to comply with material restrictions or conditions that may negatively affect the combined company after the merger is completed or cause us to abandon the merger. failure to complete the merger could negatively affect our future business and financial results. completion of the merger is contingent upon, among other things, receipt of certain regulatory approvals and the absence of any injunction prohibiting the merger. all required regulatory authorizations, approvals or consents may not be obtained or may contain terms, conditions or restrictions that will be detrimental to the combined company after completion of the merger. the stockholders of both amb and prologis must approve the merger transaction at special stockholder meetings to be held after our merger proxy and registration statement is effective. if the stockholders of either company do not approve the merger, the merger will not be consummated. in addition, satisfying the conditions to, and completion of, the merger may take longer than, and could cost more than, we expect. any delay in completing or any additional conditions imposed in order to complete the merger may materially adversely affect the synergies and other benefits that we and prologis expect to achieve from the merger and the integration of our businesses. we may be unable to satisfy all the conditions to the merger or succeed in any litigation brought in connection with the merger. if the merger is not completed, our financial results may be adversely affected and we will be subject to several risks, including but not limited to: payment to prologis of a termination fee of $210 million, as specified in the merger agreement, depending on the nature of the termination; payment of costs relating to the merger, whether or not the merger is completed; and being subject to litigation related to any failure to complete the merger. 17 table of contents any delay or inability to satisfy all conditions to complete the merger, or failure to complete the merger could negatively affect our future business, financial condition or results of operation. if completed, the merger may not achieve its intended results, and we and prologis may be unable to successfully integrate our operations. we and prologis entered into the merger agreement with the expectation that the merger will result in various benefits, including, among other things, cost savings and operating efficiencies. achieving the anticipated benefits of the merger is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether the businesses of amb and prologis can be integrated in an efficient and effective manner. if the merger is completed, it is possible that the integration process could take longer than anticipated and could result in the loss of valuable employees, the disruption of each company ongoing businesses, processes and systems or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, practices, policies and compensation arrangements, any of which could adversely affect the combined company ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger. the combined company results of operations could also be adversely affected by any issues attributable to either company operations that arise or are based on events or actions that occur prior to the closing of the merger. the companies may have difficulty addressing possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies. the integration process is subject to a number of uncertainties, and no assurance can be given that the anticipated benefits will be realized or, if realized, the timing of their realization. failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs or decreases in the amount of expected revenues and could adversely affect the combined company future business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. debt financing risks the company faces risks associated with the use of debt to fund its business activities, including refinancing and interest rate risks. as of december 31, 2010, the operating partnership had total debt outstanding of $3.3 billion. as of december 31, 2010, the parent company guaranteed $1.7 billion of the operating partnership obligations with respect to the senior debt securities referenced in the parent company financial statements. the operating partnership is subject to risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that its cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest. it is likely that the operating partnership will need to refinance at least a portion of its outstanding debt as it matures. there is a risk that the operating partnership may not be able to refinance existing debt or that the terms of any refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of its existing debt. if the operating partnership is unable to refinance or extend principal payments due at maturity or pay them with proceeds of other capital transactions, then the operating partnership expects that its cash flow will not be sufficient in all years to repay all such maturing debt and to pay distributions to its unitholders, including the parent company, which, in turn, will be unable to pay cash dividends to its stockholders. furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. higher interest rates on newly incurred debt may negatively impact the operating partnership as well. if interest rates increase, the operating partnership interest costs and overall costs of capital will increase, which could adversely affect its financial condition, results of operation and cash flow, the market price of the parent company stock, the operating partnership ability to pay principal and interest on its debt and to pay distributions to its unitholders, the parent company ability to pay cash dividends to its stockholders and the operating partnership capital deployment activity. in addition, there may be circumstances that will require the operating partnership to obtain amendments or waivers to provisions in its credit facilities or other financings. there can be no assurance that the operating partnership will be able to obtain necessary amendments or waivers at all or without significant expense. in such case, the operating partnership may not be able to fund its business activities as planned, within budget or at all. in addition, if the company mortgages one or more of its properties to secure payment of indebtedness and the company is unable to meet mortgage payments, then the property could be foreclosed upon or transferred to the lender with a consequent loss of income and asset value. a foreclosure on one or more of the company properties could adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay distributions to the 18 table of contents operating partnership unitholders and cash dividends to the parent company stockholders, and the market price of the parent company stock. as of december 31, 2010, the company had outstanding bank guarantees in the amount of $0.3 million used to secure contingent obligations, primarily obligations under development and purchase agreements. as of december 31, 2010, the company also guaranteed $58.6 million and $83.5 million on outstanding loans for five of its consolidated co-investment ventures and three of its unconsolidated co-investment ventures, respectively. also, the company has entered into contribution agreements with certain of its unconsolidated co-investment venture funds. these contribution agreements require the company to make additional capital contributions to the applicable co-investment venture fund upon certain defaults by the co-investment venture of its debt obligations to the lenders. such additional capital contributions will cover all or part of the applicable co-investment venture debt obligation and may be greater than the company share of the co-investment venture debt obligation or the value of the company share of any property securing such debt. the company contribution obligations under these agreements will be reduced by the amounts recovered by the lender and the fair market value of the property, if any, used to secure the debt and obtained by the lender upon default. the company potential obligations under these contribution agreements were $260.6 million as of december 31, 2010. the company intends to continue to guarantee debt of its unconsolidated co-investment venture funds and make additional contributions to its unconsolidated co-investment venture funds in connection with property contributions to the funds. such payment obligations under such guarantees and contribution obligations under such contribution agreements, if required to be paid, could be of a magnitude that could adversely affect the company financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to the parent company stockholders and distributions to the operating partnership unitholders and the market price of the parent company stock. adverse changes in the company credit ratings could negatively affect its financing activity. the credit ratings of the operating partnership senior unsecured long-term debt and the parent company preferred stock are based on its operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position and other factors employed by the credit rating agencies in their rating analyses of the company. the company credit ratings can affect the amount of capital it can access, as well as the terms and pricing of any debt the operating partnership may incur. in addition, the announcement of the proposed merger transaction with prologis resulted in the company being placed on a negative credit rating watch list and because prologis credit rating is lower than the company s, the credit rating of the combined company may be adversely affected if the proposed merger is completed. there can be no assurance that the company will be able to maintain its current credit ratings, and in the event its current credit ratings are downgraded, the company would likely incur higher borrowing costs and may encounter difficulty in obtaining additional financing. also, a downgrade in the company credit ratings may trigger additional payments or other negative consequences under its current and future credit facilities and debt instruments. for example, if the operating partnership credit ratings of its senior unsecured long-term debt are downgraded to below investment grade levels, the operating partnership may not be able to obtain or maintain extensions on certain of its existing debt. adverse changes in the operating partnership credit ratings could negatively impact its refinancing and other capital market activities, its ability to manage its debt maturities, its future growth, its financial condition, the market price of the parent company stock, and its development and acquisition activity. covenants in the operating partnership debt agreements could adversely affect its financial condition. the terms of the operating partnership credit agreements and other indebtedness require that it complies with a number of financial and other covenants, such as maintaining debt service coverage and leverage ratios and maintaining insurance coverage. these covenants may limit flexibility in the operating partnership operations, and its failure to comply with these covenants could cause a default under the applicable debt agreement even if it has satisfied its payment obligations. as of december 31, 2010, the operating partnership had certain non-recourse, secured loans, which are cross-collateralized by multiple properties. if the operating partnership defaults on any of these loans, it may then be required to repay such indebtedness, together with applicable prepayment charges, to avoid foreclosure on all the cross-collateralized properties within the applicable pool. foreclosure on the operating partnership properties, or its inability to refinance its loans on favorable terms, could adversely impact its financial 19 table of contents condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to the parent company stockholders or distributions to the operating partnership unitholders, and the market price of the parent company stock. in addition, the operating partnership credit facilities and senior debt securities contain certain cross-default provisions, which are triggered in the event that its other material indebtedness is in default. these cross-default provisions may require the operating partnership to repay or restructure the credit facilities and the senior debt securities in addition to any mortgage or other debt that is in default, which could adversely affect the operating partnership financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay distributions to its unitholders and the parent company ability to pay cash dividends to its stockholders and the market price of its stock. failure to hedge effectively against exchange and interest rates may adversely affect results of operations. the company seeks to manage its exposure to exchange and interest rate volatility by using exchange and interest rate hedging arrangements, such as cap agreements and swap agreements. these agreements involve risks, such as the risk that the counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing the company exposure to exchange or interest rate changes and that a court could rule that such agreements are not legally enforceable. hedging may reduce overall returns on the company investments. failure to hedge effectively against exchange and interest rate changes may materially adversely affect the company results of operations. the company is dependent on external sources of capital. in order to qualify as a real estate investment trust, the parent company is required each year to distribute to its stockholders at least 90% of its real estate investment trust taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends-paid deduction and by excluding any net capital gain) and is subject to tax to the extent its income is not fully distributed. while historically the parent company has satisfied these distribution requirements by making cash distributions to its stockholders, the parent company may choose to satisfy these requirements by making distributions of cash or other property, including, in limited circumstances, its own stock. for distributions with respect to taxable years ending on or before december 31, 2011, and in some cases declared as late as december 31, 2012, the parent company can satisfy up to 90% of the distribution requirements discussed above through the distribution of shares of its stock if certain conditions are met. assuming the parent company continues to satisfy these distribution requirements with cash, the parent company and the operating partnership may not be able to fund all future capital needs, including acquisition and development activities, from cash retained from operations and may have to rely on third-party sources of capital. further, in order to maintain the parent company real estate investment trust status and avoid the payment of federal income and excise taxes, the parent company, through the operating partnership, may need to borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the real estate investment trust distribution requirements even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings. these short-term borrowing needs could result from differences in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for federal income tax purposes, or the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt or amortization payments. the company ability to access private debt and equity capital on favorable terms or at all is dependent upon a number of factors, including general market conditions, the market perception of the company growth potential, its current and potential future earnings and cash distributions and the market price of its securities. the operating partnership could incur more debt, increasing its debt service. as of december 31, 2010, the operating partnership share of total debt-to-its share of total market capitalization ratio was 41.3%. the operating partnership definition of the operating partnership share of total market capitalization is the operating partnership share of total debt plus preferred equity liquidation preferences plus market equity. see footnote 1 to the capitalization ratios table contained in part ii, item 7: management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation liquidity and capital resources for the operating partnership definitions of market equity and the operating partnership share of total debt. as this ratio percentage increases directly with a decrease in the market price per share of the parent company capital stock, an unstable market environment will impact this ratio in a volatile manner. there can also 20 table of contents be no assurance that the operating partnership would not become more highly leveraged, resulting in an increase in debt service that could adversely affect the cash available for distribution to its unitholders and, in turn, the cash available to distribute to the parent company stockholders. furthermore, if the operating partnership becomes more highly leveraged, the operating partnership may not be in compliance with the debt covenants contained in the agreements governing its co-investment ventures, which could adversely impact its private capital business. other real estate industry risks the company performance and value are subject to general economic conditions and risks associated with its real estate assets. the investment returns available from equity investments in real estate depend on the amount of income earned and capital appreciation generated by the properties, as well as the expenses incurred in connection with the properties. if the company properties do not generate income sufficient to meet operating expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, then the operating partnership ability to pay distributions to its unitholders (including the parent company) and, in turn, the parent company ability to pay cash dividends to its stockholders could be adversely affected. in addition, there are significant expenditures associated with an investment in real estate (such as mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs) that generally do not decline when circumstances reduce the income from the property. income from, and the value of, the company properties may be adversely affected by: changes in the general economic climate, such as the current one, including diminished access to or availability of capital (including difficulties in financing, refinancing and extending existing debt) and rising inflation (see risks of the current economic environment ); local conditions, such as oversupply of or a reduction in demand for industrial space; the attractiveness of the company properties to potential customers; competition from other properties; the company ability to provide adequate maintenance and insurance; increased operating costs; increased cost of compliance with regulations; the potential for liability under applicable laws (including changes in tax laws); and disruptions in the global supply chain caused by political, regulatory or other factors, including terrorism. in addition, periods of economic slowdown or recession in the united states and in other countries, rising interest rates, diminished access to or availability of capital or declining demand for real estate, may result in a general decrease in rents, an increased occurrence of defaults under existing leases or greater difficulty in financing the company acquisition and development activities, which would adversely affect the company financial condition and results of operations. future terrorist attacks may result in declining economic activity, which could reduce the demand for and the value of the company properties. to the extent that future attacks impact the company customers, their businesses similarly could be adversely affected, including their ability to continue to honor their existing leases. the company properties are concentrated predominantly in the industrial real estate sector. as a result of this concentration, the company feels the impact of an economic downturn in this sector more acutely than if the company portfolio included other property types. the company may be unable to lease vacant space or renew leases or relet space as leases expire. as of december 31, 2010, on an owned and managed basis, the company occupancy average was 91.2% year-to-date and the leases on 16.4% of the company industrial properties (based on annualized base rent) will expire on or prior to december 31, 2011. the company derives most of its income from rent received from its customers. accordingly, the company financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and its ability to pay 21 table of contents dividends to the parent company stockholders and distributions to the operating partnership unitholders, and the market price of the parent company stock could be adversely affected if the company is unable to lease vacant space at favorable rents or terms or at all and to promptly relet or renew expiring leases or if the rental rates upon leasing, renewal or reletting are significantly lower than expected. there can be no assurance that the company will be able to lease its vacant space, renew its expiring leases, increase its occupancy to its historical averages or generally realize the potential of its currently low-yielding assets (including the build-out and leasing of its development platform). periods of economic slowdown or recession are likely to adversely affect the company leasing activities. if a customer experiences a downturn in its business or other type of financial distress, then it may be unable to make timely rental payments or renew its lease. further, the company ability to rent space and the rents that it can charge are impacted, not only by customer demand, but by the number of other properties the company has to compete with to appeal to customers. the company could be adversely affected if a significant number of its customers are unable to meet their lease obligations. the company results of operations, distributable cash flow and the value of the parent company stock would be adversely affected if a significant number of the company customers were unable to meet their lease obligations. in the current economic environment, it is likely that customer bankruptcies will increase. if a customer seeks the protection of bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws, such customer lease may be terminated in the process and result in a reduction of cash flow to the company. in the event of a significant number of lease defaults and/or tenant bankruptcies, the company cash flow may not be sufficient to pay distributions to the operating partnership unitholders and cash dividends to the parent company stockholders and repay maturing debt and any other obligations. as of december 31, 2010, on an owned and managed basis, the company did not have any single customer account for annualized base rent revenues greater than 3.1%. however, in the event of lease defaults by a significant number of the company customers, the company may incur substantial costs in enforcing its rights as landlord. declining real estate valuations and impairment charges could adversely affect the company earnings and financial condition. the economic downturn has generally resulted in lower real estate valuations, which has required the company to recognize real estate impairment charges on its assets. the company conducts a comprehensive review of all real estate asset classes in accordance with its policy of accounting for the impairment or disposal of long-lived assets, which indicates that asset values should be analyzed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of a property may not be fully recoverable. the intended use of an asset, either held for sale or held for the long term, can significantly impact how impairment is measured. if an asset is intended to be held for the long term, the impairment analysis is based on a two-step test. the first test measures estimated expected future cash flows over the holding period, including a residual value (undiscounted and without interest charges), against the carrying value of the property. if the asset fails the first test, then the asset carrying value is measured against the estimated fair value from a market participant standpoint, with the excess of the asset carrying value over the estimated fair value recognized as an impairment charge to earnings. if an asset is intended to be sold, impairment is tested based on a one-step test, comparing the carrying value to the estimated fair value less costs to sell. the estimation of expected future net cash flows is inherently uncertain and relies on assumptions regarding current and future economic and market conditions and the availability of capital. the company determines the estimated fair values based on assumptions regarding rental rates, costs to complete, lease-up and holding periods, as well as sales prices or contribution values. the company also utilizes the knowledge of its regional teams and the recent valuations of its two open-ended funds, which contain a large, geographically diversified pool of assets, all of which are subject to third-party appraisals on at least an annual basis. as a result of changing market conditions, the company may need to re-evaluate the carrying value of its investments and recognize real estate impairment losses on certain of its investments. the principal trigger which has led to impairment charges in the recent past was the severe economic deterioration in some markets resulting in a decrease in leasing and rental rates, rising vacancies and an increase in capitalization rates. impairments may be necessary in the future in the event that market conditions deteriorate and 22 table of contents impact the factors used to estimate fair value, which may include impairments relating to the company unconsolidated real estate as well as impairments relating to the company investments in its unconsolidated co-investment ventures. investments in unconsolidated joint ventures are presented under the equity method. the equity method is used when the company has the ability to exercise significant influence over operating and financial policies of the joint venture but does not have control of the joint venture. under the equity method, these investments are initially recognized in the balance sheet at cost and are subsequently adjusted to reflect the company proportionate share of net earnings or losses of the joint venture, distributions received, contributions, deferred gains from the contribution of properties and certain other adjustments, as appropriate. when circumstances indicate there may have been a loss in value of an equity investment, the company evaluates the investment for impairment by estimating the company ability to recover its investment or if the loss in value is other than temporary. to evaluate whether an impairment is other than temporary, the company considers relevant factors, including, but not limited to, the period of time in any unrealized loss position, the likelihood of a future recovery, and the company positive intent and ability to hold the investment until the forecasted recovery. if the company determines the loss in value is other than temporary, the company recognizes an impairment charge to reflect the investment at fair value. fair value is determined through various valuation techniques, including, but not limited to, discounted cash flow models, quoted market values and third party appraisals. during the year ended december 31, 2010, the company did not record any impairment on its investments in unconsolidated co-investment ventures. there can be no assurance that the estimates and assumptions the company uses to assess impairments are accurate and will reflect actual results. a worsening real estate market may cause the company to reevaluate the assumptions used in its impairment analysis and its intent to hold, sell, develop or contribute properties. impairment charges could adversely affect the company financial condition, results of operations and its ability to pay cash dividends to the parent company stockholders and distributions to the operating partnership unitholders and the market price of the parent company stock. the company performance and value are impacted by the local economic conditions of and the risks associated with doing business in california. as of december 31, 2010, the company industrial properties located in california represented 21.1% of the aggregate square footage of its industrial operating properties and 19.7% of its industrial annualized base rent, on an owned and managed basis. the company revenue from, and the value of, its properties located in california may be affected by local real estate conditions (such as an oversupply of or reduced demand for industrial properties) and the local economic climate. business layoffs, downsizing, industry slowdowns, changing demographics and other factors may adversely impact california economic climate. because of the number of properties the company has located in california, a downturn in california economy or real estate conditions could adversely affect the company financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to its stockholders and the market price of its stock. a number of the company properties are located in areas that are known to be subject to earthquake activity. u.s. properties located in active seismic areas include properties in the san francisco bay area, los angeles, and seattle. the company largest concentration of such properties is in california where, on an owned and managed basis, as of december 31, 2010, the company had 277 industrial buildings, aggregating approximately 29.9 million square feet, on an owned and managed basis. international properties located in active seismic areas include tokyo and osaka, japan and mexico city, mexico. the company carries earthquake insurance on all of its properties located in areas historically subject to seismic activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles that it believes are commercially reasonable. the company evaluates its earthquake insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants. the company may be unable to consummate acquisitions on advantageous terms or at all or acquisitions may not perform as it expects. on a strategic and selective basis, the company may acquire u.s. or foreign properties, portfolios of properties or interests in property-owning or real-estate related entities and platforms, which could include large acquisitions that could increase the company size and alter its capital and organizational structure. such acquisitions entail various risks, including the risks that the company investments may not perform or be accretive to the company 23 table of contents value as it expects, that it may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate its new acquisitions into its existing operations or, if applicable, contribute the acquired properties to a joint venture, that portfolio acquisitions may include non-core assets, that the new investments may come with unexpected liabilities and that the company cost estimates for developing or bringing an acquired property up to market standards may prove inaccurate. the company may not be able to acquire assets at values above the company cost of capital. in addition, the company expects to finance future acquisitions through a combination of borrowings under its unsecured credit facilities, proceeds from private or public equity or debt offerings (including issuances of operating partnership units) and proceeds from property divestitures, which may not be available at favorable pricing or at all and which could adversely affect the company cash flow. further, the company faces significant competition for attractive investment opportunities from other real estate investors, including both publicly-traded real estate investment trusts and private institutional investors and funds. this competition increases as quality investment opportunities arise at favorable pricing and investments in real estate become increasingly attractive relative to other forms of investment. as a result of competition, the company may be unable to make additional investments as it desires or the purchase price of the investments may be significantly elevated. also, the company may incur significant transaction-related costs in exploring and pursuing potential transactions it may not consummate. any of the above risks could adversely affect the company financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and the ability to pay cash dividends to the parent company stockholders and distributions to the operating partnership unitholders, and the market price of the parent company stock. the company is subject to risks and liabilities in connection with forming new joint ventures, investing in new or existing joint ventures, attracting third party investment and owning properties through joint ventures and other investment vehicles. as of december 31, 2010, approximately 91.4 million square feet of the company properties were held through joint ventures, limited liability companies or partnerships with third parties. the company organizational documents do not limit the amount of available funds that it may invest in partnerships, limited liability companies or joint ventures, and the company may and currently intends to develop and acquire properties through joint ventures, limited liability companies, partnerships with and investments in other entities when warranted by the circumstances. however, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to form new joint ventures, attract third party investment or make additional investments in new or existing joint ventures, successfully develop or acquire properties through such joint ventures, or realize value from such joint ventures. the company inability to do so may have an adverse effect on the company growth, its earnings and the market price of the parent company securities. joint venture partners may share certain approval rights over major decisions and some partners may manage the properties in the joint venture investments. joint venture investments involve certain risks, including: if the company joint venture partners go bankrupt, then the company and any other remaining partners may generally remain liable for the investment liabilities; if the company joint venture partners fail to fund their share of any required capital contributions, then the company may choose to or be required to contribute such capital; the company may, under certain circumstances, guarantee all or a portion of the joint venture debt, which may require the company to pay an amount greater than its investment in the joint venture; the company joint venture partners might have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with the company business interests or goals that would affect the company ability to operate the property; the company joint venture partners may have the power to act contrary to the company instructions, requests, policies or objectives, including its current policy with respect to maintaining the parent company qualification as a real estate investment trust; the joint venture or other governing agreements often restrict the transfer of an interest in the joint venture or may otherwise restrict the company ability to sell the interest when it desires or on advantageous terms; 24 table of contents the company relationships with its joint venture partners are generally contractual in nature and may be terminated or dissolved under the terms of the agreements, and in such event, the company may not continue to own or operate the interests or assets underlying such relationship or may need to purchase such interests or assets at an above-market price to continue ownership; disputes between the company and its joint venture partners may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase the company expenses and prevent its officers and directors from focusing their time and effort on the company business and result in subjecting the properties owned by the applicable joint venture to additional risk; and the company may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of its joint venture partners. the company generally seeks to maintain sufficient control or influence over its joint ventures to permit it to achieve its business objectives; however, the company may not be able to do so, and the occurrence of one or more of the events described above could adversely affect the company financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to the parent company stockholders and distributions to the operating partnership unitholders and the market price of the parent company stock. the company may not be successful in contributing properties to its co-investment ventures. the company may contribute or sell properties to certain of its co-investment ventures on a case-by-case basis. however, the company may fail to contribute properties to its co-investment ventures due to such factors as its inability to acquire, develop, or lease properties that meet the investment criteria of such ventures, or its co-investment ventures inability to access debt and equity capital to pay for property contributions or their allocation of available capital to cover other capital requirements such as forward commitments, loan maturities and future redemptions. if the co-investment ventures are unable to raise additional capital on favorable terms after available capital is depleted or if the value of properties to be contributed or sold to the co-investment ventures are appraised at less than the cost of such properties, then such contributions or sales could be delayed or prevented, adversely affecting the company financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to the parent company stockholders and distributions to the operating partnership unitholders, and the market price of the parent company stock. a delay in these contributions could result in adverse effects on the company liquidity and on its ability to meet projected earnings levels in a particular reporting period, which could have an adverse effect on the company results of operations, distributable cash flow and the value of its securities. the company may be unable to complete divestitures on advantageous terms or at all. the company may divest itself of properties, which are currently in its portfolio, are held for sale or which otherwise do not meet its strategic objectives. the company may, in certain circumstances, divest itself of properties to increase its liquidity or to capitalize on opportunities that arise. the company ability to dispose of properties on advantageous terms or at all depends on factors beyond its control, including competition from other sellers, current market conditions (including capitalization rates applicable to its properties) and the availability of financing for potential buyers of its properties. if the company is unable to dispose of properties on favorable terms or at all or redeploy the proceeds of property divestitures in accordance with its investment strategy, then the company financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, ability to meet its debt obligations in a timely manner and the ability to pay cash dividends and distributions could be adversely affected, which could also negatively impact the market price of the parent company stock. actions by the company competitors may affect the company ability to divest properties and may decrease or prevent increases of the occupancy and rental rates of the company properties. the company competes with other owners, operators and developers of real estate, some of which own properties similar to the company properties in the same submarkets in which the company properties are located. if the company competitors sell assets similar to assets the company intends to divest in the same markets and/or at valuations below the company valuations for comparable assets, the company may be unable to divest its 25 table of contents assets at favorable pricing or on favorable terms or at all. in addition, if the company competitors offer space at rental rates below current market rates or below the rental rates the company currently charges its customers, the company may lose potential customers, and the company may be pressured to reduce its rental rates below those the company currently charges in order to retain customers when its customers leases expire. as a result, the company financial condition, cash flow, cash available for distributions and dividends and, trading price of the parent company stock and ability to satisfy the operating partnership debt service obligations could be materially adversely affected. the company may be unable to complete renovation, development and redevelopment projects on advantageous terms or at all. on a strategic and selective basis, the company may develop, renovate and redevelop properties. after the financial and real estate markets stabilize, the company may expand its investment in its development, renovation and redevelopment business and complete the build-out and leasing of its development platform. the company may also develop, renovate and redevelop properties in newly formed development joint ventures into which the company may contribute assets. the real estate development, renovation and redevelopment business involves significant risks that could adversely affect the company financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to the parent company stockholders and distributions to the operating partnership unitholders and the market price of the parent company stock, which include the following risks: the company may not be able to obtain financing for development projects on favorable terms or at all and complete construction on schedule or within budget, resulting in increased debt service expense and construction costs and delays in leasing the properties, generating cash flow and, if applicable, contributing properties to a joint venture; the company may not be able to obtain, or may experience delays in obtaining, all necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other governmental permits and authorizations; the properties may perform below anticipated levels, producing cash flow below budgeted amounts; the company may not be able to lease properties on favorable terms or at all; construction costs, total investment amounts and the company share of remaining funding may exceed the company estimates and projects may not be completed, delivered or stabilized as planned; the company may not be able to attract third party investment in new development joint ventures or sufficient customer demand for its product; the company may not be able to capture the anticipated enhanced value created by its value-added conversion projects on its expected timetables or at all; the company may not be able to successfully form development joint ventures or capture value from such newly formed ventures; the company may fail to contribute properties to its co-investment ventures due to such factors as its inability to acquire, develop, or lease properties that meet the investment criteria of such ventures, or its co-investment ventures inability to access debt and equity capital to pay for property contributions or their allocation of available capital to cover other capital requirements such as future redemptions; the company may experience delays (temporary or permanent) if there is public opposition to its activities; substantial renovation, new development and redevelopment activities, regardless of their ultimate success, typically require a significant amount of management time and attention, diverting their attention from the company day-to-day operations; and upon completion of construction, the company may not be able to obtain, on advantageous terms or at all, permanent financing for activities that it has financed through construction loans. 26 table of contents real estate investments are relatively illiquid, making it difficult for the company to respond promptly to changing conditions. real estate assets are not as liquid as certain other types of assets. further, the internal revenue code regulates the number of properties that the parent company, as a real estate investment trust, can dispose of in a year, their tax bases and the cost of improvements that the parent company makes to the properties. in addition, a portion of the properties held directly or indirectly by certain of the company subsidiary partnerships were acquired in exchange for limited partnership units in the applicable partnership. the contribution agreements for such properties may contain restrictions on certain sales, exchanges or other dispositions of these properties, or a portion thereof, which result in a taxable transaction for specified periods, following the contribution of these properties to the applicable partnership. these limitations may affect the company ability to sell properties. this lack of liquidity and the internal revenue code restrictions may limit the company ability to vary its portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions and, as a result, could adversely affect the company financial condition, results of operations and cash flow, the market price of the parent company stock, the ability to pay cash dividends to the parent company stockholders and distributions to the operating partnership unitholders, and the operating partnership ability to access capital necessary to meet its debt payments and other obligations. risks associated with the company international business the company international activities are subject to special risks and it may not be able to effectively manage its international business. the company acquired and developed, and may continue to acquire and develop on a strategic and selective basis, properties and operating platforms outside the united states. because local markets affect the company operations, the company international investments are subject to economic fluctuations in the international locations in which the company invests. access to capital may be more restricted, or unavailable on favorable terms or at all, in certain locations. in addition, the company international operations are subject to the usual risks of doing business abroad such as revisions in tax treaties or other laws and regulations, including those governing the taxation of the company international revenues, restrictions on the transfer of funds, and, in certain parts of the world, uncertainty over property rights, terrorist or gang-related activities, civil unrest and political instability. the company cannot predict the likelihood that any of these developments may occur. further, the company has entered, and may in the future enter, into agreements with non-u.s. entities that are governed by the laws of, and are subject to dispute resolution in the courts of, another country or region. the company cannot accurately predict whether such a forum would provide it with an effective and efficient means of resolving disputes that may arise. further, even if the company is able to obtain a satisfactory decision through arbitration or a court proceeding, the company could have difficulty enforcing any award or judgment on a timely basis or at all. the company also has offices in many countries outside the united states and, as a result, the company operations may be subject to risks that may limit its ability to effectively establish, staff and manage its offices outside the united states, including: differing employment practices and labor issues; local business and cultural factors that differ from the company usual standards and practices; regulatory requirements and prohibitions that differ between jurisdictions; and health concerns. the company global growth (including growth in new regions in the united states) subjects the company to certain risks, including risks associated with funding increasing headcount, integrating new offices, and establishing effective controls and procedures to regulate the operations of new offices and to monitor compliance with regulations such as the foreign corrupt practices act. in addition, payroll expenses are paid in local currencies and, therefore, the company is exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in the rate of exchange between the u.s. dollar and these currencies. further, the company business has grown rapidly and may continue to grow in a strategic and deliberate manner. if the proposed merger with prologis is completed, the risks associated with the combined company 27 table of contents international business will be enhanced due to the combined company larger international presence. if the company fails to effectively manage its international growth or integrate the combined company international operations in the event the merger is completed, then the company financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to the parent company stockholders and distributions to the operating partnership unitholders, and the market price of the parent company stock could be adversely affected. the company is subject to risks from potential fluctuations in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and the currencies of the other countries in which it invests. the company may pursue growth opportunities in international markets on a strategic and selective basis. as the company invests in countries where the u.s. dollar is not the national currency, the company is subject to international currency risks from the potential fluctuations in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and the currencies of those other countries. a significant depreciation in the value of the currency of one or more countries where the company has a significant investment may materially affect its results of operations. the company attempts to mitigate any such effects by borrowing in the currency of the country in which it is investing and, under certain circumstances, by putting in place international currency put option contracts to hedge exchange rate fluctuations. for leases denominated in international currencies, the company may use derivative financial instruments to manage the international currency exchange risk. the company cannot assure you, however, that its efforts will successfully neutralize all international currency risks. acquired properties may be located in new markets, where the company may face risks associated with investing in an unfamiliar market. the company has acquired and may continue to acquire properties, portfolios of properties, interests in real-estate related entities or platforms on a strategic and selective basis in international markets that are new to it. when the company acquires properties or platforms located in these markets, it may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local economy, forging new business relationships in the area and unfamiliarity with local government and permitting procedures. the company works to mitigate such risks through extensive diligence and research and associations with experienced partners; however, there can be no guarantee that all such risks will be eliminated. general business risks the company faces risks associated with short-term liquid investments. the company continues to have significant cash balances that it invests in a variety of short-term investments that are intended to preserve principal value and maintain a high degree of liquidity while providing current income. from time to time, these investments may include (either directly or indirectly): direct obligations issued by the u.s. treasury; obligations issued or guaranteed by the u.s. government or its agencies; taxable municipal securities; obligations (including certificates of deposit) of banks and thrifts; commercial paper and other instruments consisting of short-term u.s. dollar denominated obligations issued by corporations and banks; repurchase agreements collateralized by corporate and asset-backed obligations; both registered and unregistered money market funds; and other highly rated short-term securities. investments in these securities and funds are not insured against loss of principal. under certain circumstances the company may be required to redeem all or part of its investment, and its right to redeem some or all of its investment may be delayed or suspended. in addition, there is no guarantee that the company investments in these 28 table of contents securities or funds will be redeemable at par value. a decline in the value of the company investment or a delay or suspension of its right to redeem may have an adverse effect on the company results of operations or financial condition. the company may experience losses that its insurance does not cover. the company carries commercial liability, property and rental loss insurance covering all the properties that it owns and manages in types and amounts that it believes are adequate and appropriate given the relative risks applicable to the property, the cost of coverage and industry practice. certain losses, such as those due to terrorism, windstorms, floods or seismic activity, may be insured subject to certain limitations, including large deductibles or co-payments and policy limits. although the company has obtained coverage for certain acts of terrorism, with policy specifications and insured limits that the company considers commercially reasonable given the cost and availability of such coverage, the company cannot be certain that it will be able to renew coverage on comparable terms or collect under such policies. in addition, there are other types of losses, such as those from riots, bio-terrorism or acts of war, that are not generally insured in the company industry because it is not economically feasible to do so. the company may incur material losses in excess of insurance proceeds and it may not be able to continue to obtain insurance at commercially reasonable rates. given current market conditions, there can also be no assurance that the insurance companies providing the company coverage will not fail or have difficulty meeting their coverage obligations to the company. furthermore, the company cannot assure you that its insurance companies will be able to continue to offer products with sufficient coverage at commercially reasonable rates. if the company experiences a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds its insured limits with respect to one or more of its properties or if the company insurance companies fail to meet their coverage commitments to it in the event of an insured loss, then the company could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties, as well as the anticipated future revenue from those properties and, if there is recourse debt, then the company would remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the properties. moreover, as the general partner of the operating partnership, the parent company generally will be liable for all of the operating partnership unsatisfied recourse obligations, including any obligations incurred by the operating partnership as the general partner of co-investment ventures. any such losses or higher insurance costs could adversely affect the company financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to the parent company stockholders and distributions to the operating partnership unitholders and the market price of the parent company stock. a number of the company properties are located in areas that are known to be subject to earthquake activity. u.s. properties located in active seismic areas include properties in the san francisco bay area, los angeles, and seattle. the company largest concentration of such properties is in california where, on an owned and managed basis, as of december 31, 2010, the company had 277 industrial buildings, aggregating approximately 29.9 million square feet and representing 21.1% of its industrial operating properties based on aggregate square footage and 19.7% based on industrial annualized base rent, on an owned and managed basis. international properties located in active seismic areas include tokyo and osaka, japan and mexico city, mexico. the company carries earthquake insurance on all of its properties located in areas historically subject to seismic activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles that it believes are commercially reasonable. the company evaluates its earthquake insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants. a number of the company properties are located in areas that are known to be subject to hurricane and/or flood risk. the company carries hurricane and flood hazard insurance on all of its properties located in areas historically subject to such activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles that it believes are commercially reasonable. the company evaluates its insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants. contingent or unknown liabilities could adversely affect the company financial condition. the company has acquired and may in the future acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities. as a result, if a liability were asserted against the company based upon ownership of any of these entities or properties, then the company might have to 29 table of contents pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely affect its cash flow. contingent or unknown liabilities with respect to entities or properties acquired might include: liabilities for environmental conditions; losses in excess of the company insured coverage; accrued but unpaid liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; tax, legal and regulatory liabilities; claims of customers, vendors or other persons dealing with the company predecessors prior to its formation or acquisition transactions that had not been asserted or were unknown prior to the company formation or acquisition transactions; and claims for indemnification by the general partners, officers and directors and others indemnified by the former owners of the company properties. risks associated with the company dependence on key personnel the company depends on the efforts of its executive officers and other key employees. from time to time, the company personnel and their roles may change. as part of the company cost savings plan in 2008 and 2009, the company has reduced its total global headcount and may do so again in the future. in connection with the completion of the proposed merger with prologis, there may be additional changes to the company personnel and their roles that impact the combined company. while the company believes that it has retained its key talent, left its global platform intact and can find suitable employees to meet its personnel needs, the loss of key personnel, any change in their roles, or the limitation of their availability could adversely affect the company financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to the parent company stockholders and distributions to the operating partnership unitholders, and the market price of the parent company stock. the company currently does not have employment agreements with any of its executive officers, other than agreements that may be contingent on the completion of the proposed merger with prologis. because the company compensation packages include equity-based incentives, pressure on the parent company stock price or limitations on the company ability to award such incentives could affect the company ability to offer competitive compensation packages to its executives and key employees. if the company is unable to continue to attract and retain its executive officers, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain key employees become more expensive, the company performance and competitive position could be materially adversely affected. federal income tax risks the parent company failure to qualify as a real estate investment trust would have serious adverse consequences to its stockholders. the parent company elected to be taxed as a real estate investment trust under sections 856 through 860 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the internal revenue code ), commencing with its taxable year ended december 31, 1997. the parent company believes it has operated so as to qualify as a real estate investment trust under the internal revenue code and believes that the parent company current organization and method of operation comply with the rules and regulations promulgated under the internal revenue code to enable it to continue to qualify as a real estate investment trust. however, it is possible that the parent company has been organized or has operated in a manner that would not allow it to qualify as a real estate investment trust, or that the parent company future operations could cause it to fail to qualify. qualification as a real estate investment trust requires the parent company to satisfy numerous requirements (some on an annual and others on a quarterly basis) established under highly technical and complex sections of the internal revenue code for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations, and involves the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within the parent company control. for example, in order to qualify as a real estate investment trust, the parent company must derive at least 95% of its gross income in any year from qualifying sources. in addition, the parent company must pay dividends to its stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of 30 table of contents its real estate investment trust taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding capital gains) and must satisfy specified asset tests on a quarterly basis. while historically the parent company has satisfied the distribution requirement discussed above by making cash distributions to its stockholders, the parent company may choose to satisfy this requirement by making distributions of cash or other property, including, in limited circumstances, its own stock. for distributions with respect to taxable years ending on or before december 31, 2011, and in some cases declared as late as december 31, 2012, the parent company can satisfy up to 90% of this distribution requirement through the distribution of shares of its stock if certain conditions are met. the provisions of the internal revenue code and applicable treasury regulations regarding qualification as a real estate investment trust are more complicated in the parent company case because it holds its assets through the operating partnership. if the parent company fails to qualify as a real estate investment trust in any taxable year, the parent company will be required to pay federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on its taxable income at regular corporate rates. unless the parent company is entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, the parent company would be disqualified from treatment as a real estate investment trust for the four taxable years following the year in which the parent company lost its qualification. if the parent company lost its real estate investment trust status, the parent company net earnings available for investment or distribution to stockholders would be significantly reduced for each of the years involved. in addition, the parent company would no longer be required to make distributions to its stockholders. furthermore, the parent company owns a direct or indirect interest in certain subsidiary reits which elected to be taxed as reits under sections 856 through 860 of the internal revenue code. provided that each subsidiary reit qualifies as a reit, the parent company interest in such subsidiary reit will be treated as a qualifying real estate asset for purposes of the reit asset tests, and any dividend income or gains derived by the parent company from such subsidiary reit will generally be treated as income that qualifies for purposes of the reit gross income tests. to qualify as a reit, the subsidiary reit must independently satisfy all of the reit qualification requirements. if such subsidiary reit were to fail to qualify as a reit, and certain relief provisions did not apply, it would be treated as a regular taxable corporation and its income would be subject to united states federal income tax. in addition, a failure of the subsidiary reit to qualify as a reit would have an adverse effect on the parent company ability to comply with the reit income and asset tests, and thus the parent company ability to qualify as a reit. certain property transfers may generate prohibited transaction income, resulting in a penalty tax on gain attributable to the transaction. from time to time, the company may transfer or otherwise dispose of some of its properties, including by contributing properties to its co-investment venture funds. under the internal revenue code, any gain resulting from transfers of properties the company holds as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is treated as income from a prohibited transaction subject to a 100% penalty tax. the company does not believe that its transfers or disposals of property or its contributions of properties into its co-investment ventures are prohibited transactions. however, whether property is held for investment purposes is a question of fact that depends on all the facts and circumstances surrounding the particular transaction. the internal revenue service may contend that certain transfers or dispositions of properties by the company or contributions of properties into the company co-investment venture funds are prohibited transactions. while the company believes that the internal revenue service would not prevail in any such dispute, if the internal revenue service were to argue successfully that a transfer, disposition, or contribution of property constituted a prohibited transaction, the company would be required to pay a 100% penalty tax on any gain allocable to the company from the prohibited transaction. in addition, income from a prohibited transaction might adversely affect the company ability to satisfy the income tests for qualification as a real estate investment trust. the parent company may in the future choose to pay dividends in its own stock, in which case you may be required to pay tax in excess of the cash you receive. the parent company may distribute taxable dividends that are partially payable in cash and partially payable in its stock. up to 90% of any such taxable dividend with respect to calendar years 2008 through 2011, and in some 31 table of contents cases declared as late as december 31, 2012, could be payable in the parent company stock if certain conditions are met. taxable stockholders receiving such dividends will be required to include the full amount of the dividend as ordinary income to the extent of the parent company current and accumulated earnings and profits for united states federal income tax purposes. as a result, a u.s. stockholder may be required to pay tax with respect to such dividends in excess of the cash received. if a u.s. stockholder sells the stock it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of the parent company stock at the time of the sale. furthermore, with respect to non-u.s. stockholders, the parent company may be required to withhold u.s. tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in stock. in addition, if a significant number of the parent company stockholders determine to sell shares of its stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, it may put downward pressure on the trading price of the parent company stock. legislative or regulatory action could adversely affect the parent company stockholders. in recent years, numerous legislative, judicial and administrative changes have been made to the federal income tax laws applicable to investments in reits and similar entities. additional changes to tax laws are likely to continue to occur in the future, and there can be no assurance that any such changes will not adversely affect the taxation of the parent company, the operating partnership, any stockholder of the parent company or any limited partner of the operating partnership. conflicts of interest risks some of the company directors and executive officers are involved in other real estate activities and investments and, therefore, may have conflicts of interest with the company. from time to time, certain of the company executive officers and directors may own interests in other real-estate related businesses and investments, including de minimis holdings of the equity securities of public and private real estate companies. the company executive officers involvement in other real estate-related activities could divert their attention from the company day-to-day operations. the company executive officers have entered into non-competition agreements with the company pursuant to which they have agreed not to engage in any activities, directly or indirectly, in respect of commercial real estate, and not to make any investment in respect of any industrial or retail real estate, other than through ownership of not more than 5% of the outstanding shares of a public company engaged in such activities or through certain specified investments. state law may limit the company ability to enforce these agreements. the company will not acquire any properties from its executive officers, directors or their affiliates unless the transaction is approved by a majority of the disinterested and independent (as defined by the rules of the new york stock exchange) members of the parent company board of directors with respect to that transaction. the parent company role as general partner of the operating partnership may conflict with the interests of its stockholders. as the general partner of the operating partnership, the parent company has fiduciary obligations to the operating partnership limited partners, the discharge of which may conflict with the interests of the parent company stockholders. in addition, those persons holding limited partnership units will have the right to vote as a class on certain amendments to the operating partnership partnership agreement and individually to approve certain amendments that would adversely affect their rights. the limited partners may exercise these voting rights in a manner that conflicts with the interests of the parent company stockholders. in addition, under the terms of the operating partnership partnership agreement, holders of limited partnership units will have approval rights with respect to specified transactions that affect all stockholders but which they may not exercise in a manner that reflects the interests of all stockholders. 32 table of contents risks associated with government regulations the costs of compliance with environmental laws and regulations and any related potential liability could exceed the company budgets for these items. under various environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be liable for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products at, on, under, in or from its property. the costs of removal or remediation of such substances could be substantial. these laws typically impose liability and clean-up responsibility without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. even if more than one person may have been responsible for the contamination, each person covered by the environmental laws may be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs incurred. in addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages based on personal injury, property damage or other costs, including investigation and clean-up costs, resulting from the environmental contamination. environmental laws in some countries, including the united states, also require that owners or operators of buildings containing asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos, adequately inform or train those who may come into contact with asbestos and undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, in the event that asbestos is disturbed during building renovation or demolition. these laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos. some of the company properties are known to contain asbestos-containing building materials. in addition, some of the company properties are leased or have been leased, in part, to owners and operators of businesses that use, store or otherwise handle petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, creating a potential for the release of such hazardous or toxic substances. further, certain of the company properties are on, adjacent to or near other properties that have contained or currently contain petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, or upon which others have engaged, are engaged or may engage in activities that may release such hazardous or toxic substances. from time to time, the company may acquire properties, or interests in properties, with known adverse environmental conditions where the company believes that the environmental liabilities associated with these conditions are quantifiable and that the acquisition will yield a superior risk-adjusted return. in such an instance, the company underwrites the costs of environmental investigation, clean-up and monitoring into the acquisition cost and obtains appropriate environmental insurance for the property. further, in connection with certain divested properties, the company has agreed to remain responsible for, and to bear the cost of, remediating or monitoring certain environmental conditions on the properties. at the time of acquisition, the company subjects all of its properties to a phase i or similar environmental assessments by independent environmental consultants and the company may have additional phase ii testing performed upon the consultant recommendation. these environmental assessments have not revealed, and the company is not aware of, any environmental liability that it believes would have a material adverse effect on the company financial condition or results of operations taken as a whole. nonetheless, it is possible that the assessments did not reveal all environmental liabilities and that there are material environmental liabilities unknown to the company, or that known environmental conditions may give rise to liabilities that are greater than the company anticipated. further, the company properties current environmental condition may be affected by customers, the condition of land, operations in the vicinity of the properties (such as releases from underground storage tanks) or by unrelated third parties. if the costs of compliance with existing or future environmental laws and regulations exceed the company budgets for these items, then the company financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to the parent company stockholders and distributions to the operating partnership unitholders, and the market price of the parent company stock could be adversely affected. compliance or failure to comply with the americans with disabilities act and other similar regulations could result in substantial costs. under the americans with disabilities act, places of public accommodation must meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the award of damages to private litigants. if the company is required to make 33 table of contents unanticipated expenditures to comply with the americans with disabilities act, including removing access barriers, then the company cash flow and the amounts available for dividends to the parent company stockholders and distributions to the operating partnership unitholders may be adversely affected. the company properties are also subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life-safety requirements. the company could incur fines or private damage awards if it fails to comply with these requirements. while the company believes that its properties are currently in material compliance with these regulatory requirements, the requirements may change or new requirements may be imposed that could require significant unanticipated expenditures by the company that will affect its cash flow and results of operations. risks associated with ownership of the parent company stock limitations in the parent company charter and bylaws could prevent a change in control. certain provisions of the parent company charter and bylaws may delay, defer or prevent a change in control or other transaction that could provide the holders of the parent company common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for the common stock. to maintain the parent company qualification as a real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of the parent company outstanding stock may be owned, actually or constructively, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the internal revenue code to include certain entities) during the last half of a taxable year after the first taxable year for which a real estate investment trust election is made. furthermore, the parent company common stock must be held by a minimum of 100 persons for at least 335 days of a 12-month taxable year (or a proportionate part of a short tax year). in addition, if the parent company, or an owner of 10% or more of the parent company stock, actually or constructively owns 10% or more of one of the parent company customers (or a customer of any partnership in which the company is a partner), then the rent received by the parent company (either directly or through any such partnership) from that customer will not be qualifying income for purposes of the real estate investment trust gross income tests of the internal revenue code. to help the parent company maintain its qualification as a real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes, the parent company prohibits the ownership, actually or by virtue of the constructive ownership provisions of the internal revenue code, by any single person, of more than 9.8% (by value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the issued and outstanding shares of each of the parent company common stock, series l preferred stock, series m preferred stock, series o preferred stock, and series p preferred stock (unless such limitations are waived by the parent company board of directors). the parent company refers to this limitation as the ownership limit. the charter provides that shares acquired or held in violation of the ownership limit will be transferred to a trust for the benefit of a designated charitable beneficiary. the charter further provides that any person who acquires shares in violation of the ownership limit will not be entitled to any dividends on the shares or be entitled to vote the shares or receive any proceeds from the subsequent sale of the shares in excess of the lesser of the price paid for the shares or the amount realized from the sale. a transfer of shares in violation of the above limits may be void under certain circumstances. the ownership limit may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control and, therefore, could adversely affect the parent company stockholders ability to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for the shares of the parent company common stock in connection with such transaction. the parent company charter authorizes it to issue additional shares of common and preferred stock and to establish the preferences, rights and other terms of any series or class of preferred stock that the parent company issues. the parent company board of directors could establish a series or class of preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction, including a change in control, that might involve a premium price for the common stock or otherwise be in the best interests of the parent company stockholders. the parent company charter and bylaws and maryland law also contain other provisions that may impede various actions by stockholders without the approval of the parent company board of directors, which in turn may delay, defer or prevent a transaction, including a change in control. the parent company charter and bylaws include the following provisions: directors may be removed only for cause and only upon a two-thirds vote of stockholders; the parent company board can fix the number of directors within set limits (which limits are subject to change by the parent company board), and fill vacant directorships upon the vote of a majority of the 34 table of contents remaining directors, even though less than a quorum, or in the case of a vacancy resulting from an increase in the size of the board, a majority of the entire board; stockholders must give advance notice to nominate directors or propose business for consideration at a stockholders meeting; and the request of the holders of 50% or more of the parent company common stock is necessary for stockholders to call a special meeting. maryland law includes the following provisions: a two-thirds vote of stockholders is required to amend the parent company charter; and stockholders may only act by written consent with the unanimous approval of all stockholders entitled to vote on the matter in question. in addition, the parent company board could elect to adopt, without stockholder approval, other provisions under maryland law that may impede a change in control. if the parent company issues additional securities, then the investment of existing stockholders will be diluted. as the parent company is a real estate investment trust, the company is dependent on external sources of capital and the parent company may issue common or preferred stock and the operating partnership may issue debt securities to fund the company future capital needs. the company has the authority to issue shares of common stock or other equity or debt securities, and to cause the operating partnership or amb property ii, l.p., one of the company subsidiaries, to issue limited partnership units, in exchange for property or otherwise. existing stockholders have no preemptive right to acquire any additional securities issued by the operating partnership, amb property ii, l.p., or the parent company and any issuance of additional equity securities may adversely affect the market price of the parent company stock and could result in dilution of an existing stockholder investment. in addition, in the event the proposed merger with prologis is completed, the investment of existing stockholders will be diluted based on the exchange ratio of prologis shares of common stock into the company shares, which will result in current amb stockholders owning approximately 40% of the combined company. earnings, cash dividends, asset value and market interest rates affect the price of the parent company stock. as the parent company is a real estate investment trust, the market value of the parent company equity securities, in general, is based primarily upon the market perception of the parent company growth potential and its current and potential future earnings and cash dividends. the market value of the parent company equity securities is based secondarily upon the market value of its underlying real estate assets. for this reason, shares of the parent company stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than its net asset value per share. to the extent that the parent company retains operating cash flow for investment purposes, working capital reserves, or other purposes, these retained funds, while increasing the value of the parent company underlying assets, may not correspondingly increase the market price of its stock. the parent company failure to meet the market expectations with regard to future earnings and cash dividends likely would adversely affect the market price of the parent company stock. further, the distribution yield on the stock (as a percentage of the price of the stock) relative to market interest rates may also influence the price of the parent company stock. an increase in market interest rates might lead prospective purchasers of the parent company stock to expect a higher distribution yield, which would adversely affect the parent company stock market price. additionally, if the market price of the parent company stock declines significantly, then the operating partnership might breach certain covenants with respect to its debt obligations, which could adversely affect the company liquidity and ability to make future acquisitions and the parent company ability to pay cash dividends to its stockholders and the operating partnership ability to pay distributions to its unitholders. the parent company board of directors has decided to align the parent company regular dividend payments with the projected taxable income from recurring operations alone. the parent company may make special 35 table of contents distributions going forward, as necessary, related to taxable income associated with any asset dispositions and gain activity. in the past, the parent company board of directors has suspended dividends to the parent company stockholders, and it is possible that they may do so again in the future, or decide to pay dividends partially in the parent company own stock as provided for in the internal revenue code. the parent company could change its investment and financing policies without a vote of stockholders. subject to the parent company current investment policy to maintain the parent company qualification as a real estate investment trust (unless a change is approved by the parent company board of directors under certain circumstances), the parent company board of directors determines the company investment and financing policies, its growth strategy and its debt, capitalization, distribution and operating policies. the parent company board of directors may revise or amend these strategies and policies at any time without a vote of stockholders. any such changes may not serve the interests of all of the parent company stockholders or the operating partnership unitholders and could adversely affect the company financial condition or results of operations, including its ability to pay cash dividends to the parent company stockholders and distributions to the operating partnership unitholders. shares available for future sale could adversely affect the market price of the parent company common stock. the operating partnership and amb property ii, l.p. had 3,041,743 common limited partnership units issued and outstanding as of december 31, 2010, all of which are currently exchangeable on a one-for-one basis into shares of the parent company common stock. in the future, the operating partnership or amb property ii, l.p. may issue additional limited partnership units, and the parent company may issue shares of common stock, in connection with the acquisition of properties or in private placements. these shares of common stock and the shares of common stock issuable upon exchange of limited partnership units may be sold in the public securities markets over time, pursuant to registration rights that the parent company has granted, or may grant in connection with future issuances, or pursuant to rule 144 under the securities act of 1933. in addition, common stock issued under the company stock option and incentive plans may also be sold in the market pursuant to registration statements that the parent company has filed or pursuant to rule 144. as of december 31, 2010, under the company stock option and incentive plans, the company had 4,014,453 shares of common stock reserved and available for future issuance, had outstanding options to purchase 8,694,938 shares of common stock (of which 6,361,551 are vested and exercisable and 5,731,803 have exercise prices below market value at december 31, 2010) and had 1,202,122 unvested restricted shares of common stock outstanding. future sales of a substantial number of shares of the parent company common stock in the market or the perception that such sales might occur could adversely affect the market price of the parent company common stock. further, the existence of the common limited partnership units of the operating partnership and amb property ii, l.p. and the shares of the parent company common stock reserved for issuance upon exchange of limited partnership units and the exercise of options, and registration rights referred to above, may adversely affect the terms upon which the parent company is able to obtain additional capital through the sale of equity securities. risks associated with the company disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting the company business could be adversely impacted if it has deficiencies in its disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting. the design and effectiveness of the company disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors, misstatements or misrepresentations. while management will continue to review the effectiveness of the company disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, there can be no guarantee that the company internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. furthermore, the company disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting with respect to entities that the company does not control or manage or third-party entities that the company may acquire may be substantially more limited than those the company maintains with respect to the subsidiaries that the company has controlled or managed over the course of 36 table of contents time. deficiencies, including any material weakness, in the company internal control over financial reporting which may occur in the future could result in misstatements of the company results of operations, restatements of its financial statements, a decline in the parent company stock price, or otherwise materially adversely affect the company business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 100 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the risk of loss from adverse changes in market prices, interest rates and international exchange rates. the company future earnings and cash flows are dependent upon prevailing market rates. accordingly, the company manages its market risk by matching projected cash inflows from operating, investing and financing activities with projected cash outflows for debt service, acquisitions, capital expenditures, distributions to stockholders and unitholders, payments to noteholders, and other cash requirements. the majority of the company outstanding debt has fixed interest rates, which minimize the risk of fluctuating interest rates. the company exposure to market risk includes interest rate fluctuations in connection with its credit facilities and other variable rate borrowings and its ability to incur more debt without stockholder and unitholder approval, thereby increasing its debt service obligations, which could adversely affect its cash flows. the table below summarizes the maturities and interest rates associated with the company fixed and variable rate debt outstanding at book value and estimated fair value before unamortized net discounts of $12.6 million as of december 31, 2010 (dollars in thousands): 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 thereafter total fair value fixed rate debt(1) $ 143,598 $ 544,574 $ 365,635 $ 13,713 $ 137,342 $ 1,393,341 $ 2,598,203 $ 2,672,107 average interest rate 6.5 % 5.1 % 6.1 % 5.3 % 5.1 % 5.1 % 5.3 % n/a variable rate debt(2) $ 209,754 $ 107,326 $ 55,196 $ 139,490 $ 205,773 $ 28,113 $ 745,652 $ 742,076 average interest rate 2.1 % 1.8 % 2.9 % 1.7 % 2.8 % 2.0 % 2.2 % n/a interest payments(3) $ 13,630 $ 29,611 $ 23,763 $ 3,037 $ 12,661 $ 71,778 $ 154,480 n/a (1) represents 77.7% of all outstanding debt at december 31, 2010. (2) represents 22.3% of all outstanding debt at december 31, 2010. (3) represents interest expense related only to the debt balances maturing in each respective year, based upon interest rates at the balance sheet date. 100 table of contents if market rates of interest on the company variable rate debt increased or decreased by 10%, then the increase or decrease in interest cost on the company variable rate debt would be $1.6 million (net of the swap) annually. as of december 31, 2010, the book value and the estimated fair value of the company total consolidated debt (both secured and unsecured) were $3.3 billion and $3.4 billion, respectively, based on the company estimate of current market interest rates. as of december 31, 2009, the book value and the estimated fair value of the company total consolidated debt (both secured and unsecured) both were $3.2 billion, based on our estimate of current market interest rates. as of december 31, 2010 and 2009, variable rate debt comprised 22.3% and 38.8%, respectively, of all the company outstanding debt. variable rate debt was $0.7 billion and $1.2 billion as of december 31, 2010 and december 31, 2009, respectively. financial instruments. the company records all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value as an asset or liability. for derivatives that qualify as cash flow hedges, the offset to this entry is to accumulated other comprehensive income as a separate component of stockholders equity for the parent company, partners capital for the operating partnership or income for any ineffectiveness. for derivatives which do not qualify as cash flow hedges, the offset to the change in fair value on the derivative asset or liability is recorded directly in earnings as gains or losses through other income (expenses). for revenues or expenses denominated in non-functional currencies, the company may use derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk. the company derivative financial instruments in effect at december 31, 2010 were 24 interest rate swaps and one interest rate cap hedging cash flows of variable rate borrowings based on u.s. libor and four foreign exchange forward contracts hedging intercompany loans. the company does not hold or issue derivatives for trading purposes. the following table summarizes the company financial instruments as of december 31, 2010 (in thousands): cash flow hedges eur swaps receive-floating pay-fixed notional amount derivative type index maturity date strike rate (usd equivalent) fair value swap 3 mo. euribor december-11 1.2600 % $ 7,698 $ (8 ) swap 1 mo. euribor january-12 1.1575 % $ 112,240 $ (189 ) swap 1 mo. euribor january-12 1.1710 % $ 65,473 $ (119 ) swap 1 mo. euribor january-12 1.1550 % $ 28,060 $ (47 ) swap 3 mo. euribor december-12 1.7300 % $ 10,910 $ (81 ) swap 1 mo. euribor january-13 1.4875 % $ 112,240 $ (129 ) swap 1 mo. euribor january-13 1.5010 % $ 65,473 $ (85 ) swap 1 mo. euribor january-13 1.4850 % $ 28,060 $ (32 ) swap 3 mo. euribor december-13 2.2200 % $ 12,584 $ (133 ) swap 1 mo. euribor january-14 1.9975 % $ 112,240 $ 299 swap 1 mo. euribor january-14 2.0110 % $ 65,473 $ 160 swap 1 mo. euribor january-14 1.9950 % $ 28,060 $ 73 swap 1 mo. euribor january-15 2.5875 % $ 112,240 $ 73 swap 1 mo. euribor january-15 2.6010 % $ 65,473 $ 26 swap 1 mo. euribor january-15 2.5850 % $ 28,060 $ 16 swap 1 mo. euribor september-15 3.0025 % $ 112,240 $ 112 swap 1 mo. euribor september-15 3.0160 % $ 65,473 $ 51 swap 1 mo. euribor september-15 3.0000 % $ 28,060 $ 25 $ 1,060,057 $ 12 101 table of contents cash flow hedges jpy swaps receive-floating pay-fixed notional amount derivative type index maturity date strike rate (usd equivalent) fair value swap 3 mo. jpy tibor october-12 0.6000 % $ 153,903 $ (420 ) swap 3 mo. jpy libor september-16 2.5200 % $ 25,998 $ (54 ) swap 3 mo. jpy libor september-16 2.5200 % $ 16,018 $ (34 ) swap 3 mo. jpy libor july-17 2.8800 % $ 25,320 $ (244 ) swap 3 mo. jpy libor july-17 2.8800 % $ 16,018 $ (155 ) $ 237,257 $ (907 ) cash flow hedges usd caps receive-floating pay-fixed notional amount derivative type index maturity date strike rate (usd equivalent) fair value cap 1 mo. usd libor october-12 4.2500 % $ 25,909 $ 8 $ 25,909 $ 8 non-designated hedges fx forward pay-fixed buy notional amount derivative type forward rate maturity date strike rate (usd equivalent) fair value fx forward 1.335675 march-11 eur 124,143 $ 165,815 $ 108 fx forward 1.551 march-11 gbp 17,000 $ 26,367 $ (85 ) fx forward 1.00065 march-11 cad 165,000 $ 164,893 $ (627 ) fx forward 1.00075 march-11 cad 78,000 $ 77,942 $ (304 ) $ 435,017 $ (908 ) non-designated hedges ir swap receive-floating pay-fixed notional amount derivative type index maturity date strike rate (usd equivalent) fair value swap 3 mo. euribor june-11 4.4500 % $ 25,168 $ 713 $ 25,168 $ 713 total usd equivalent amount $ 1,783,408 $ (1,082 ) international operations. the company exposure to market risk also includes foreign currency exchange rate risk. the u.s. dollar is the functional currency for the company subsidiaries operating in the united states, mexico and certain subsidiaries in europe. the functional currency for the company subsidiaries operating outside the united states, other than mexico and certain subsidiaries in europe, is generally the local currency of the country in which the entity or property is located, mitigating the effect of foreign exchange gains and losses. the company subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the u.s. dollar translate their financial statements into u.s. dollars. assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rate in effect as of the financial statement date. the company translates income statement accounts using the average exchange rate for the period and significant nonrecurring transactions using the rate on the transaction date. the gains (losses) resulting from the translation are 102 table of contents included in accumulated other comprehensive income as a separate component of stockholders equity for the parent company or partners capital for the operating partnership and totaled $36.7 million and $(22.0) million for the year ended december 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. the company international subsidiaries may have transactions denominated in currencies other than their functional currency. in these instances, non-monetary assets and liabilities are reflected at the historical exchange rate, monetary assets and liabilities are remeasured at the exchange rate in effect at the end of the period and income statement accounts are remeasured at the average exchange rate for the period. the company also records gains or losses in the income statement when a transaction with a third party, denominated in a currency other than the entity functional currency, is settled and the functional currency cash flows realized are more or less than expected based upon the exchange rate in effect when the transaction was initiated. for the years ended december 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, total unrealized and realized gains (losses) from remeasurement and translation included in the company results of operations were $1.4 million, $(7.2) million and $(5.7) million, respectively.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the risk of loss from adverse changes in market prices, interest rates and foreign exchange rates. our future earnings and cash flows are dependent upon prevailing market rates. accordingly, we manage our market risk by matching projected cash inflows from operating, investing and financing activities with projected cash outflows for debt service, acquisitions, capital expenditures, distributions to stockholders and unitholders, and other cash requirements. the majority of our outstanding debt has fixed interest rates, which minimizes the risk of fluctuating interest rates. our exposure to market risk includes interest rate fluctuations in connection with our credit facility and other variable rate borrowings and our ability to incur more debt without stockholder approval, thereby increasing our debt service obligations, which could adversely affect our cash flows. as of december 31, 2003, we had no interest rate caps or swaps. see item 2: management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources capital resources market capitalization. the table below summarizes the market risks associated with our fixed and variable rate debt outstanding before unamortized debt premiums of $10.8 million as of december 31, 2003 (dollars in thousands): 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 thereafter total fixed rate debt(1) $ 96,425 $ 354,372 $ 168,961 $ 138,067 $ 365,496 $ 1,062,154 $ 2,185,475 average interest rate 7.0 % 7.0 % 6.9 % 7.1 % 6.9 % 6.7 % 6.9 % variable rate debt(2) $ 2,045 $ 279,532 $ 51,898 $ 5,504 $ 5,637 $ 33,377 $ 377,993 average interest rate 3.6 % 1.9 % 1.6 % 3.8 % 4.1 % 4.1 % 2.1 % (1) represents 85.3% of all outstanding debt. (2) represents 14.7% of all outstanding debt. if market rates of interest on our variable rate debt increased by 10% (or approximately 20 basis points), then the increase in interest expense on the variable rate debt would be $0.8 million annually. as of december 31, 2003, the estimated fair value of our fixed rate debt was $2,472.2 million based on our estimate of current market interest rates. as of december 31, 2003 and 2002, variable rate debt comprised 14.7% and 9.3%, respectively, of all our outstanding debt. variable rate debt was $378.0 million and $206.1 million, respectively, as of december 31, 2003 and 2002. the increase is due to a higher outstanding balance on our credit facility. this increase in our outstanding variable rate debt increases our risk associated with unfavorable interest rate fluctuations. 57 table of contents financial instruments. we record all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value as an asset or liability, with an offset to accumulated other comprehensive income or income. for revenues or expenses denominated in non-functional currencies, we may use derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk. our derivative financial instruments in effect at december 31, 2003, were a forward contract hedging against adverse foreign exchange fluctuations in the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar and a put option hedging against adverse equity fluctuations affecting the value of stock warrants obtained from customers. the following table summarizes our financial instruments as of december 31, 2003: carrying fair related derivatives amount value (in thousands) mxn/ usd forward contract (usd short): expected maturity march 30, 2004 contract amount (mxn pesos) 37,201 forward exchange rate 10.86 contract amount (usd dollars) $ 3,426 fair value at december 31, 2003 $ 3,273 put option: contract amount $ 188 fair value at december 31, 2003 $ 57 foreign operations. our exposure to market risk also includes foreign currency exchange rate risk. the u.s. dollar is the functional currency for our subsidiaries operating in the united states and mexico. the functional currency for our subsidiaries operating outside north america is generally the local currency of the country in which the entity is located, mitigating the effect of foreign exchange gains and losses. our subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the u.s. dollar translate their financial statements into u.s. dollars. assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rate in effect as of the financial statement date. we translate income statement accounts using the average exchange rate for the period and significant nonrecurring transactions using the rate on the transaction date. gains resulting from the translation are included in accumulated other comprehensive income as a separate component of stockholders equity and totaled $0.7 million for the year ended december 31, 2003. our foreign subsidiaries may have transactions denominated in currencies other than their functional currency. in these instances, non-monetary assets and liabilities are reflected at the historical exchange rate, monetary assets and liabilities are remeasured at the exchange rate in effect at the end of the period and income statement accounts are remeasured at the average exchange rate for the period. for the year ended december 31, 2003, losses from remeasurement included in our results of operations were less than $0.1 million. we also record gains or losses in the income statement when a transaction with a third party, denominated in a currency other than the entity functional currency, is settled and the functional currency cash flows realized are more or less than expected based upon the exchange rate in effect when the transaction was initiated.risk factors business risks risks associated with our international business general business risks debt financing risks conflicts of interest risks risks associated with government regulations federal income tax risks risks associated with our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting risks associated with ownership of our stock risk factors business risks our operations involve various risks that could have adverse consequences to us. these risks include, among others: general real estate industry risks our performance and value are subject to general economic conditions and risks associated with our real estate assets. the investment returns available from equity investments in real estate depend on the amount of income earned and capital appreciation generated by the properties, as well as the expenses incurred in connection with the properties. if our properties do not generate income sufficient to meet operating expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, then our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders could be adversely affected. in addition, there are significant expenditures associated with an investment in real estate (such as mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs) that generally do not decline when circumstances reduce the income from the property. income from, and the value of, our properties may be adversely affected by: changes in the general economic climate; local conditions, such as oversupply of or a reduction in demand for industrial space; the attractiveness of our properties to potential customers; competition from other properties; our ability to provide adequate maintenance and insurance; increased operating costs; increased cost of compliance with regulations; the potential for liability under applicable laws (including changes in tax laws); and disruptions in the global supply chain caused by political, regulatory or other factors including terrorism. in addition, periods of economic slowdown or recession in the united states and in other countries, rising interest rates or declining demand for real estate, or public perception that any of these events may occur, would result in a general decrease in rents or an increased occurrence of defaults under existing leases, which 7 table of contents would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. future terrorist attacks may result in declining economic activity, which could reduce the demand for and the value of our properties. to the extent that future attacks impact our customers, their businesses similarly could be adversely affected, including their ability to continue to honor their existing leases. our properties are concentrated predominantly in the industrial real estate sector. as a result of this concentration, we would feel the impact of an economic downturn in this sector more acutely than if our portfolio included other property types. we may be unable to renew leases or relet space as leases expire. as of december 31, 2005, leases on a total of 16.2% of our industrial properties (based on annualized base rent) will expire on or prior to december 31, 2006. we derive most of our income from rent received from our customers. accordingly, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and our ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock could be adversely affected if we are unable to promptly relet or renew these expiring leases or if the rental rates upon renewal or reletting are significantly lower than expected. if a tenant experiences a downturn in its business or other type of financial distress, then it may be unable to make timely rental payments or renew its lease. further, our ability to rent space and the rents that we can charge are impacted, not only by customer demand, but by the number of other properties we have to compete with to appeal to customers. actions by our competitors may decrease or prevent increases of the occupancy and rental rates of our properties. we compete with other developers, owners and operators of real estate, some of which own properties similar to ours in the same submarkets in which our properties are located. if our competitors offer space at rental rates below current market rates or below the rental rates we currently charge our tenants, we may lose potential tenants, and we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we currently charge in order to retain tenants when our tenants leases expire. as a result, our financial condition, cash flow, cash available for distribution, trading price of our common stock and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations could be materially adversely affected. real estate investments are relatively illiquid, making it difficult for us to respond promptly to changing conditions. real estate assets are not as liquid as certain other types of assets. further, as a real estate investment trust, the internal revenue code regulates the number of properties that we can dispose of in a year, their tax bases and the cost of improvements that we make to the properties. in addition, a portion of the properties held directly or indirectly by certain of our subsidiary partnerships were acquired in exchange for limited partnership units in the applicable partnership. the contribution agreements for such properties may contain restrictions on certain sales, exchanges or other dispositions of these properties, or a portion thereof, that result in a taxable transaction for specified periods, following the contribution of these properties to the applicable partnership. these limitations may affect our ability to sell properties. this lack of liquidity and the internal revenue code restrictions may limit our ability to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions and, as a result, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and our ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock. we could be adversely affected if a significant number of our tenants are unable to meet their lease obligations. our results of operations, distributable cash flow and the value of our common stock would be adversely affected if a significant number of our tenants were unable to meet their lease obligations to us. in the event of a significant number of lease defaults, our cash flow may not be sufficient to pay dividends to our stockholders and repay maturing debt. as of december 31, 2005, we did not have any single tenant account for annualized 8 table of contents base rent revenues greater than 3.7%. however, in the event of lease defaults by a significant number of our tenants, we may incur substantial costs in enforcing our rights as landlord. we may be unable to consummate acquisitions on advantageous terms or acquisitions may not perform as we expect. we acquire and intend to continue to acquire primarily industrial properties. the acquisition of properties entails various risks, including the risks that our investments may not perform as we expect, that we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate our new acquisitions into our existing operations and that our cost estimates for bringing an acquired property up to market standards may prove inaccurate. further, we face significant competition for attractive investment opportunities from other well-capitalized real estate investors, including both publicly-traded real estate investment trusts and private institutional investment funds. this competition increases as investments in real estate become increasingly attractive relative to other forms of investment. as a result of competition, we may be unable to acquire additional properties as we desire or the purchase price may be significantly elevated. in addition, we expect to finance future acquisitions through a combination of borrowings under our unsecured credit facilities, proceeds from equity or debt offerings by us or the operating partnership or its subsidiaries and proceeds from property divestitures, which may not be available and which could adversely affect our cash flow. any of the above risks could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock. we may be unable to complete renovation and development projects on advantageous terms. as part of our business, we develop new and renovate existing properties. the real estate development and renovation business involves significant risks that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock, which include the following risks: we may not be able to obtain financing for development projects on favorable terms and complete construction on schedule or within budget, resulting in increased debt service expense and construction costs and delays in leasing the properties and generating cash flow; we may not be able to obtain, or may experience delays in obtaining, all necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other governmental permits and authorizations; the properties may perform below anticipated levels, producing cash flow below budgeted amounts; substantial renovation and new development activities, regardless of their ultimate success, typically require a significant amount of management time and attention, diverting their attention from our day-to -day operations; and upon completion of construction, we may not be able to obtain, or obtain on advantageous terms, permanent financing for activities that we have financed through construction loans. risks associated with our international business our international growth is subject to special risks and we may not be able to effectively manage our international growth. we have acquired and developed, and expect to continue to acquire and develop, properties outside the united states. because local markets affect our operations, our international investments are subject to economic fluctuations in the international locations in which we invest. in addition, our international operations are subject to the usual risks of doing business abroad such as revisions in tax treaties or other laws and regulations, including those governing the taxation of our international revenues, restrictions on the transfer of funds, and, in certain parts of the world, uncertainty over property rights and political instability. we cannot predict the likelihood that any of these developments may occur. further, we have entered, and may in the future enter, into agreements with non-u.s. entities that are governed by the laws of, and are 9 table of contents subject to dispute resolution in the courts of, another country or region. we cannot accurately predict whether such a forum would provide us with an effective and efficient means of resolving disputes that may arise. and even if we are able to obtain a satisfactory decision through arbitration or a court proceeding, we could have difficulty enforcing any award or judgment on a timely basis or at all. further, our business has grown rapidly and continues to grow through international property acquisitions and developments. if we fail to effectively manage our international growth, then our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock could be adversely affected. acquired properties may be located in new markets, where we may face risks associated with investing in an unfamiliar market. we have acquired and may continue to acquire properties in international markets that are new to us. when we acquire properties located in these markets, we may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local economy, forging new business relationships in the area and unfamiliarity with local government and permitting procedures. we work to mitigate such risks through extensive diligence and research and associations with experienced partners; however, there can be no guarantee that all such risks will be eliminated. we are subject to risks from potential fluctuations in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and the currencies of the other countries in which we invest. we are pursuing, and intend to continue to pursue, growth opportunities in international markets. as we invest in countries where the u.s. dollar is not the national currency, we are subject to international currency risks from the potential fluctuations in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and the currencies of those other countries. a significant depreciation in the value of the currency of one or more countries where we have a significant investment may materially affect our results of operations. we attempt to mitigate any such effects by borrowing under our multi-currency credit facility in the currency of the country we are investing in and, under certain circumstances, by putting in place international currency put option contracts hedging exchange rate fluctuations. for leases denominated in international currencies, we may use derivative financial instruments to manage the international exchange risk. we cannot, however, assure you that our efforts will successfully neutralize all international currency risks. if we do engage in international currency exchange rate hedging activities, any income recognized with respect to these hedges (as well as any international currency gain recognized with respect to changes in exchange rates) may not qualify under the 75% gross income test or the 95% gross income test that we must satisfy annually in order to qualify and maintain our status as a reit. general business risks our performance and value are impacted by the local economic conditions of and the risks associated with doing business in california. as of december 31, 2005, our industrial properties located in california represented 27.6% of the aggregate square footage of our industrial operating properties and 28.5% of our industrial annualized base rent. our revenue from, and the value of, our properties located in california may be affected by local real estate conditions (such as an oversupply of or reduced demand for industrial properties) and the local economic climate. business layoffs, downsizing, industry slowdowns, changing demographics and other factors may adversely impact california economic climate. because of the number of properties we have located in california, a downturn in california economy or real estate conditions could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock. we may experience losses that our insurance does not cover. we carry commercial liability, property and rental loss insurance covering all the properties that we own and manage in types and amounts that we believe are adequate and appropriate given the relative risks applicable to the property, the cost of coverage and industry practice. certain losses, such as those due to 10 table of contents terrorism, windstorms, floods or seismic activity, may be insured subject to certain limitations, including large deductibles or co-payments and policy limits. although we have obtained coverage for certain acts of terrorism, with policy specifications and insured limits that we consider commercially reasonable given the cost and availability of such coverage, we cannot be certain that we will be able to renew coverage on comparable terms or collect under such policies. in addition, there are other types of losses, such as those from riots, bio-terrorism or acts of war, that are not generally insured in our industry because it is not economically feasible to do so. we may incur material losses in excess of insurance proceeds and we may not be able to continue to obtain insurance at commercially reasonable rates. if we experience a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds our insured limits with respect to one or more of our properties, then we could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties, as well as the anticipated future revenue from those properties and, if there is recourse debt, then we would remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the properties. moreover, as the general partner of the operating partnership, we generally will be liable for all of the operating partnership unsatisfied recourse obligations, including any obligations incurred by the operating partnership as the general partner of co-investment joint ventures. any such losses could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock. a number of our properties are located in areas that are known to be subject to earthquake activity. domestic properties located in active seismic areas include properties in the san francisco bay area, los angeles, memphis and seattle. our largest concentration of such properties is in california where, as of december 31, 2005, we had 253 industrial buildings, aggregating approximately 24.3 million square feet and representing 27.6% of our industrial operating properties based on aggregate square footage and 28.5% based on industrial annualized base rent. international properties located in active seismic areas include tokyo and osaka, japan and mexico city, mexico. we carry replacement-cost earthquake insurance on all of our properties located in areas historically subject to seismic activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles that we believe are commercially reasonable. we evaluate our earthquake insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants. a number of our properties are located in areas that are known to be subject to hurricane and/or flood risk. we carry replacement-cost hurricane and flood hazard insurance on all of our properties located in areas historically subject to such activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles that we believe are commercially reasonable. we evaluate our insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants. in 2005, various properties that we own or lease in new orleans, louisiana and south florida suffered damage as a result of hurricanes katrina and wilma. although we expect that our insurance will cover losses arising from this damage in excess of the deductibles paid by us and do not believe that such losses would have a material adverse effect on our business, assets or results from operations, we cannot assure you that we will be reimbursed for all losses incurred. we are subject to risks and liabilities in connection with properties owned through joint ventures, limited liability companies and partnerships. as of december 31, 2005, we owned approximately 54.8 million square feet of our properties through several joint ventures, limited liability companies or partnerships with third parties. our organizational documents do not limit the amount of available funds that we may invest in partnerships, limited liability companies or joint ventures and we intend to continue to develop and acquire properties through joint ventures, limited liability companies and partnerships with other persons or entities when warranted by the circumstances. such partners may share certain approval rights over major decisions. partnership, limited liability company or joint venture investments involve certain risks, including: if our partners, co-members or joint venturers go bankrupt, then we and any other remaining general partners, members or joint venturers would generally remain liable for the partnership s, limited liability company or joint venture liabilities; if our partners fail to fund their share of any required capital contributions, then we may be required to contribute such capital; 11 table of contents our partners, co-members or joint venturers might have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals that would affect our ability to operate the property; our partners, co-members or joint venturers may have the power to act contrary to our instructions, requests, policies or objectives, including our current policy with respect to maintaining our qualification as a real estate investment trust; the joint venture, limited liability and partnership agreements often restrict the transfer of a joint venture s, member or partner interest or buy-sell or may otherwise restrict our ability to sell the interest when we desire or on advantageous terms; our relationships with our partners, co-members or joint ventures are contractual in nature and may be terminated or dissolved under the terms of the agreements, and in such event, we may not continue to own or operate the interests or assets underlying such relationship or may need to purchase such interests or assets at an above- market price to continue ownership; disputes between us and our partners, co-members or joint venturers may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and directors from focusing their time and effort on our business and result in subjecting the properties owned by the applicable partnership or joint venture to additional risk; and we may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of our partners, co-members or joint venturers. we generally seek to maintain sufficient control of our partnerships, limited liability companies and joint ventures to permit us to achieve our business objectives, however, we may not be able to do so, and the occurrence of one or more of the events described above could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock. we may be unable to complete divestitures on advantageous terms or contribute properties. we intend to continue to divest ourselves of properties that do not meet our strategic objectives, provided that we can negotiate acceptable terms and conditions. our ability to dispose of properties on advantageous terms depends on factors beyond our control, including competition from other sellers and the availability of attractive financing for potential buyers of our properties. if we are unable to dispose of properties on favorable terms or redeploy the proceeds of property divestitures in accordance with our investment strategy, then our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock could be adversely affected. we also anticipate contributing or selling properties to funds and joint ventures. if the funds are unable to raise additional capital on favorable terms after currently available capital is depleted or if the value of such properties are appraised at less than the cost of such properties, then such contributions or sales could be delayed or prevented, adversely affecting our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock. for example, although we have acquired land for development and made capital commitments in japan and mexico, we cannot be assured that we ultimately will be able to contribute such properties to funds or joint ventures as we have planned. contingent or unknown liabilities could adversely affect our financial condition. we have and may in the future acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities. as a result, if a liability were asserted against us based upon ownership of any of these entities or properties, then we might have to pay substantial sums to 12 table of contents settle it, which could adversely affect our cash flow. unknown liabilities with respect to entities or properties acquired might include: liabilities for clean-up or remediation of undisclosed environmental conditions; accrued but unpaid liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; tax liabilities; and claims for indemnification by the general partners, officers and directors and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties. we are dependent on external sources of capital. in order to qualify as a real estate investment trust, we are required each year to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our real estate investment trust taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends-paid deduction and by excluding any net capital gain) and are taxed on our income to the extent it is not fully distributed. consequently, we may not be able to fund all future capital needs, including acquisition and development activities, from cash retained from operations and must rely on third-party sources of capital. further, in order to maintain our reit status and avoid the payment of income and excise taxes, we may need to borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the reit distribution requirements even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings. these short-term borrowing needs could result from differences in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for federal income tax purposes, or the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt or amortization payments. our ability to access private debt and equity capital on favorable terms or at all is dependent upon a number of factors, including, general market conditions, the market perception of our growth potential, our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions and the market price of our capital stock. debt financing risks we could incur more debt, increasing our debt service. it is our policy to incur debt, either directly or through our subsidiaries, only if it will not cause our share of total debt-to -our share of total market capitalization ratio to exceed approximately 45%. our definition of our share of total market capitalization is our share of total debt plus preferred equity liquidation preferences plus market equity. see footnote 1 to the capitalization ratios table contained in part ii, item 7: management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation liquidity and capital resources for our definitions of market equity and our share of total debt. the aggregate amount of indebtedness that we may incur under our policy increases directly with an increase in the market price per share of our capital stock. further, our management could alter or eliminate this policy without stockholder approval. if we change this policy, then we could become more highly leveraged, resulting in an increase in debt service that could adversely affect the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. we face risks associated with the use of debt to fund acquisitions and developments, including refinancing risk. as of december 31, 2005, we had total debt outstanding of $3.4 billion. we guarantee the operating partnership obligations with respect to the senior debt securities referenced in our financial statements. we are subject to risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest. we anticipate that we will repay only a small portion of the principal of our debt prior to maturity. accordingly, we will likely need to refinance at least a portion of our outstanding debt as it matures. there is a risk that we may not be able to refinance existing debt or that the terms of any refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of our existing debt. if we are unable to refinance or extend principal payments due at maturity or pay them with proceeds of other capital transactions, then we expect that our cash flow will not be sufficient in all years to pay dividends to our stockholders and to repay all such maturing debt. furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at 13 table of contents the time of refinancing (such as the reluctance of lenders to make commercial real estate loans) result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. in addition, if we mortgage one or more of our properties to secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet mortgage payments, then the property could be foreclosed upon or transferred to the mortgagee with a consequent loss of income and asset value. a foreclosure on one or more of our properties could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock. covenants in our debt agreements could adversely affect our financial condition. the terms of our credit agreements and other indebtedness require that we comply with a number of financial and other covenants, such as maintaining debt service coverage and leverage ratios and maintaining insurance coverage. these covenants may limit flexibility in our operations, and our failure to comply with these covenants could cause a default under the applicable debt agreement even if we have satisfied our payment obligations. as of december 31, 2005, we had certain non-recourse, secured loans, which are cross-collateralized by multiple properties. if we default on any of these loans, we may then be required to repay such indebtedness, together with applicable prepayment charges, to avoid foreclosure on all the cross-collateralized properties within the applicable pool. foreclosure on our properties, or our inability to refinance our loans on favorable terms, could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock. in addition, our credit facilities and senior debt securities contain certain cross-default provisions, which are triggered in the event that our other material indebtedness is in default. these cross-default provisions may require us to repay or restructure the credit facilities and the senior debt securities in addition to any mortgage or other debt that is in default, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock. failure to hedge effectively against interest rates may adversely affect results of operations. we seek to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements, such as interest rate cap agreements and interest rate swap agreements. these agreements involve risks, such as the risk that the counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes and that a court could rule that such agreements are not legally enforceable. hedging may reduce overall returns on our investments. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may materially adversely affect our results of operations. conflicts of interest risks some of our directors and executive officers are involved in other real estate activities and investments and, therefore, may have conflicts of interest with us. certain of our executive officers and directors own interests in other real-estate related businesses and investments, including retail development projects, office buildings and de minimis holdings of the equity securities of public and private real estate companies. our executive officers continued involvement in other real estate-related activities could divert their attention from our day-to -day operations. our executive officers have entered into non-competition agreements with us pursuant to which they have agreed not to engage in any activities, directly or indirectly, in respect of commercial real estate, and not to make any investment in respect of any industrial or retail real estate, other than through ownership of not more than 5% of the outstanding shares of a public company engaged in such activities or through certain specified investments. state law may limit our ability to enforce these agreements. we believe that these properties and activities generally do not directly compete with any of our properties. however, it is possible that a property in which an executive officer or director, or an affiliate of an executive officer or director, has an interest may compete with us in the future if we were to invest in a property similar in type and in close proximity to that property. 14 table of contents we will not acquire any properties from our executive officers, directors or their affiliates unless the transaction is approved by a majority of the disinterested and independent (as defined by the rules of the new york stock exchange) members of our board of directors with respect to that transaction. our role as general partner of the operating partnership may conflict with the interests of our stockholders. as the general partner of the operating partnership, we have fiduciary obligations to the operating partnership limited partners, the discharge of which may conflict with the interests of our stockholders. in addition, those persons holding limited partnership units will have the right to vote as a class on certain amendments to the operating partnership partnership agreement and individually to approve certain amendments that would adversely affect their rights. the limited partners may exercise these voting rights in a manner that conflicts with the interests of our stockholders. in addition, under the terms of the operating partnership partnership agreement, holders of limited partnership units will have certain approval rights with respect to certain transactions that affect all stockholders but which they may not exercise in a manner that reflects the interests of all stockholders. risks associated with government regulations the costs of compliance with environmental laws and regulations and any related potential liability could exceed our budgets for these items. under various environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be liable for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products at, on, under or in its property. the costs of removal or remediation of such substances could be substantial. these laws typically impose liability and clean-up responsibility without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. even if more than one person may have been responsible for the contamination, each person covered by the environmental laws may be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs incurred. in addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages based on personal injury, property damage or other costs, including investigation and clean-up costs, resulting from the environmental contamination. environmental laws in some countries, including the u.s., also require that owners or operators of buildings containing asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos, adequately inform or train those who may come into contact with asbestos and undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, in the event that asbestos is disturbed during building renovation or demolition. these laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos. some of our properties may contain asbestos-containing building materials. in addition, some of our properties are leased or have been leased, in part, to owners and operators of businesses that use, store or otherwise handle petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, creating a potential for the release of such hazardous or toxic substances. further, certain of our properties are on, adjacent to or near other properties that have contained or currently contain petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, or upon which others have engaged, are engaged or may engage in activities that may release such hazardous or toxic substances. from time to time, we may acquire properties, or interests in properties, with known adverse environmental conditions where we believe that the environmental liabilities associated with these conditions are quantifiable and that the acquisition will yield a superior risk-adjusted return. in such an instance, we underwrite the costs of environmental investigation, clean-up and monitoring into the acquisition cost and obtain appropriate environmental insurance for the property. further, in connection with certain divested properties, we have agreed to remain responsible for, and to bear the cost of, remediating or monitoring certain environmental conditions on the properties. at the time of acquisition, we subject all of our properties to a phase i or similar environmental assessments by independent environmental consultants and we may have additional phase ii testing performed upon the consultant recommendation. these environmental assessments have not revealed, and 15 table of contents we are not aware of, any environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations taken as a whole. nonetheless, it is possible that the assessments did not reveal all environmental liabilities and that there are material environmental liabilities unknown to us, or that known environmental conditions may give rise to liabilities that are greater than we anticipated. further, our properties current environmental condition may be affected by customers, the condition of land, operations in the vicinity of the properties (such as releases from underground storage tanks) or by unrelated third parties. if the costs of compliance with existing or future environmental laws and regulations exceed our budgets for these items, then our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock could be adversely affected. compliance or failure to comply with the americans with disabilities act and other similar regulations could result in substantial costs. under the americans with disabilities act, places of public accommodation must meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the award of damages to private litigants. if we are required to make unanticipated expenditures to comply with the americans with disabilities act, including removing access barriers, then our cash flow and the amounts available for dividends to our stockholders may be adversely affected. our properties are also subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life-safety requirements. we could incur fines or private damage awards if we fail to comply with these requirements. while we believe that our properties are currently in material compliance with these regulatory requirements, the requirements may change or new requirements may be imposed that could require significant unanticipated expenditures by us that will affect our cash flow and results of operations. federal income tax risks our failure to qualify as a real estate investment trust would have serious adverse consequences to our stockholders. we elected to be taxed as a real estate investment trust under sections 856 through 860 of the internal revenue code commencing with our taxable year ended december 31, 1997. we currently intend to operate so as to qualify as a real estate investment trust under the internal revenue code and believe that our current organization and method of operation comply with the rules and regulations promulgated under the internal revenue code to enable us to continue to qualify as a real estate investment trust. however, it is possible that we have been organized or have operated in a manner that would not allow us to qualify as a real estate investment trust, or that our future operations could cause us to fail to qualify. qualification as a real estate investment trust requires us to satisfy numerous requirements (some on an annual and others on a quarterly basis) established under highly technical and complex internal revenue code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations, and involves the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. for example, in order to qualify as a real estate investment trust, we must derive at least 95% of our gross income in any year from qualifying sources. in addition, we must pay dividends to stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our real estate investment trust taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding capital gains) and must satisfy specified asset tests on a quarterly basis. these provisions and the applicable treasury regulations are more complicated in our case because we hold our assets through the operating partnership. legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly change the tax laws with respect to qualification as a real estate investment trust or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification. however, we are not aware of any pending tax legislation that would adversely affect our ability to qualify as a real estate investment trust. if we fail to qualify as a real estate investment trust in any taxable year, then we will be required to pay federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. unless we are entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from treatment as a real estate investment trust for the four taxable years following the year in which we lost 16 table of contents qualification. if we lose our real estate investment trust status, then our net earnings available for investment or distribution to stockholders would be significantly reduced for each of the years involved. in addition, we would no longer be required to make distributions to our stockholders. certain property transfers may generate prohibited transaction income, resulting in a penalty tax on gain attributable to the transaction. from time to time, we may transfer or otherwise dispose of some of our properties. under the internal revenue code, any gain resulting from transfers of properties that we hold as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business would be treated as income from a prohibited transaction subject to a 100% penalty tax. since we acquire properties for investment purposes, we do not believe that our occasional transfers or disposals of property are properly treated as prohibited transactions. however, whether property is held for investment purposes is a question of fact that depends on all the facts and circumstances surrounding the particular transaction. the internal revenue service may contend that certain transfers or disposals of properties by us are prohibited transactions. while we believe that the internal revenue service would not prevail in any such dispute, if the internal revenue service were to argue successfully that a transfer or disposition of property constituted a prohibited transaction, then we would be required to pay a 100% penalty tax on any gain allocable to us from the prohibited transaction. in addition, income from a prohibited transaction might adversely affect our ability to satisfy the income tests for qualification as a real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes. risks associated with our dependence on key personnel we depend on the efforts of our executive officers. while we believe that we could find suitable replacements for these key personnel, the loss of their services or the limitation of their availability could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock. we do not have employment agreements with any of our executive officers. risks associated with our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting our business could be adversely impacted if we have deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting. the design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors, misstatements or misrepresentations. while management will continue to review the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, there can be no guarantee that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. deficiencies, including any material weakness, in our internal control over financial reporting which may occur in the future could result in misstatements of our results of operations, restatements of our financial statements, a decline in our stock price, or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. risks associated with ownership of our stock limitations in our charter and bylaws could prevent a change in control. certain provisions of our charter and bylaws may delay, defer or prevent a change in control or other transaction that could provide the holders of our common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for the common stock. to maintain our qualification as a real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding stock may be owned, actually or constructively, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the internal revenue code to include certain entities) during the last half of a taxable year after the first taxable year for which a real estate investment trust election is made. furthermore, our common stock must be held by a minimum of 100 persons for at least 335 days of a 12-month taxable year (or a proportionate part of a short tax year). in addition, if we, or an owner of 10% or more of our stock, actually or constructively owns 10% or more of one of our customers 17 table of contents (or a tenant of any partnership in which we are a partner), then the rent received by us (either directly or through any such partnership) from that tenant will not be qualifying income for purposes of the real estate investment trust gross income tests of the internal revenue code. to help us maintain our qualification as a real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes, we prohibit the ownership, actually or by virtue of the constructive ownership provisions of the internal revenue code, by any single person, of more than 9.8% (by value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the issued and outstanding shares of each of our common stock, series l preferred stock, series m preferred stock and series o preferred stock. we also prohibit the ownership, actually or constructively, of any shares of our series d, e, f, h, i, j and k preferred stock by any single person so that no such person, taking into account all of our stock so owned by such person, including any common stock or other series of preferred stock, may own in excess of 9.8% of our issued and outstanding capital stock. we refer to this limitation as the ownership limit. shares acquired or held in violation of the ownership limit will be transferred to a trust for the benefit of a designated charitable beneficiary. any person who acquires shares in violation of the ownership limit will not be entitled to any dividends on the shares or be entitled to vote the shares or receive any proceeds from the subsequent sale of the shares in excess of the lesser of the price paid for the shares or the amount realized from the sale. a transfer of shares in violation of the above limits may be void under certain circumstances. the ownership limit may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control and, therefore, could adversely affect our stockholders ability to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for the shares of our common stock in connection with such transaction. our charter authorizes us to issue additional shares of common and preferred stock and to establish the preferences, rights and other terms of any series or class of preferred stock that we issue. although our board of directors has no intention to do so at the present time, it could establish a series or class of preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction, including a change in control, that might involve a premium price for the common stock or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. our charter and bylaws and maryland law also contain other provisions that may impede various actions by stockholders without approval of our board of directors, which in turn may delay, defer or prevent a transaction, including a change in control. those provisions in our charter and bylaws include: directors may be removed only for cause and only upon a two-thirds vote of stockholders; our board can fix the number of directors within set limits (which limits are subject to change by our board), and fill vacant directorships upon the vote of a majority of the remaining directors, even though less than a quorum, or in the case of a vacancy resulting from an increase in the size of the board, a majority of the entire board; stockholders must give advance notice to nominate directors or propose business for consideration at a stockholders meeting; and the request of the holders of 50% or more of our common stock is necessary for stockholders to call a special meeting. those provisions provided for under maryland law include: a two-thirds vote of stockholders is required to amend our charter; and stockholders may only act by written consent with the unanimous approval of all stockholders entitled to vote on the matter in question. in addition, our board could elect to adopt, without stockholder approval, certain other provisions under maryland law that may impede a change in control. 18 table of contents the market value of our stock could be substantially affected by various factors. as with other publicly traded securities, the trading price of our stock will depend on many factors that are not within our control and may change from time to time, including: the extent of investor interest in us; the market for similar securities issued by real estate investment trusts; the general reputation of real estate investment trusts and the attractiveness of their equity securities in comparison to other equity securities (including securities issued by other real estate-based companies); general stock and bond market conditions, including changes in interest rates on fixed income securities, that may lead prospective purchasers of our stock to demand a higher annual yield from future dividends; terrorist activity may adversely affect the markets in which our securities trade, possibly increasing market volatility and causing the further erosion of business and consumer confidence and spending; general economic conditions; and our financial condition, performance and prospects. other factors such as governmental regulatory action and changes in tax laws could also have a significant impact on the future trading price of our stock. earnings, cash dividends, asset value and market interest rates affect the price of our stock. as a real estate investment trust the market value of our equity securities, in general, is based primarily upon the market perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash dividends. our equity securities market value is based secondarily upon the market value of our underlying real estate assets. for this reason, shares of our stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than our net asset value per share. to the extent that we retain operating cash flow for investment purposes, working capital reserves, or other purposes, these retained funds, while increasing the value of our underlying assets, may not correspondingly increase the market price of our stock. our failure to meet the market expectations with regard to future earnings and cash dividends likely would adversely affect the market price of our stock. further, the distribution yield on the stock (as a percentage of the price of the stock) relative to market interest rates may also influence the price of our stock. an increase in market interest rates might lead prospective purchasers of our stock to expect a higher distribution yield, which would adversely affect our stock market price. additionally, if the market price of our stock declines significantly, then we might breach certain covenants with respect to our debt obligations, which could adversely affect our liquidity and ability to make future acquisitions and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. if we issue additional securities, then the investment of existing stockholders will be diluted. we have authority to issue shares of common stock or other equity or debt securities, and to cause the operating partnership to issue limited partnership units, in exchange for property or otherwise. existing stockholders have no preemptive right to acquire any additional securities issued by the operating partnership or us and any issuance of additional equity securities could result in dilution of an existing stockholder investment. we could change our investment and financing policies without a vote of stockholders. subject to our current investment policy to maintain our qualification as a real estate investment trust (unless a change is approved by our board of directors under certain circumstances), our board of directors determines our investment and financing policies, our growth strategy and our debt, capitalization, distribution and operating policies. although our board of directors does not presently intend to revise or amend these strategies and policies, they may do so at any time without a vote of stockholders. any such changes may not 19 table of contents serve the interests of all stockholders and could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations, including our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. shares available for future sale could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. the operating partnership and amb property ii, l.p. had 4,396,525 common limited partnership units issued and outstanding as of december 31, 2005, which may be exchanged generally one year after their issuance on a one-for-one basis into shares of our common stock. in the future, the operating partnership or amb property ii, l.p. may issue additional limited partnership units, and we may issue shares of common stock, in connection with the acquisition of properties or in private placements. these shares of common stock and the shares of common stock issuable upon exchange of limited partnership units may be sold in the public securities markets over time, pursuant to registration rights that we have granted, or may grant in connection with future issuances, or pursuant to rule 144. in addition, common stock issued under our stock option and incentive plans may also be sold in the market pursuant to registration statements that we have filed or pursuant to rule 144. as of december 31, 2005, under our stock option and incentive plans, we had 3,872,024 shares of common stock reserved and available for future issuance, had outstanding options to purchase 9,148,437 shares of common stock (of which 7,236,870 are vested and exercisable) and had 547,524 unvested restricted shares of common stock outstanding. future sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the market or the perception that such sales might occur could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. further, the existence of the operating partnership limited partnership units and the shares of our common stock reserved for issuance upon exchange of limited partnership units and the exercise of options, and registration rights referred to above, may adversely affect the terms upon which we are able to obtain additional capital through the sale of equity securities. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the risk of loss from adverse changes in market prices, interest rates and international exchange rates. our future earnings and cash flows are dependent upon prevailing market rates. accordingly, we manage our market risk by matching projected cash inflows from operating, investing and financing activities with projected cash outflows for debt service, acquisitions, capital expenditures, distributions to stockholders and unitholders, and other cash requirements. the majority of our outstanding debt has fixed interest rates, which minimizes the risk of fluctuating interest rates. our exposure to market risk includes interest rate fluctuations in connection with our credit facilities and other variable rate borrowings and our ability to incur more debt without stockholder approval, thereby increasing our debt service obligations, which could adversely affect our cash flows. as of december 31, 2005, we had two outstanding interest rate swaps with aggregate notional amount of $119.5 million (in u.s. dollars). see financial instruments below. the table below summarizes the market risks associated with our fixed and variable rate debt outstanding before unamortized debt premiums of $12.0 million as of december 31, 2005 (dollars in thousands): 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 thereafter total fixed rate debt(1) $ 165,953 $ 129,214 $ 374,174 $ 190,548 $ 437,934 $ 1,260,015 $ 2,557,838 average interest rate 6.9 % 7.2 % 6.9 % 5.0 % 6.1 % 6.3 % 6.3 % variable rate debt(2) $ 69,958 $ 439,944 $ 88,606 $ 36,140 $ 1,012 $ 196,079 $ 831,739 average interest rate 4.3 % 2.2 % 2.2 % 2.2 % 2.0 % 1.9 % 2.3 % interest payments $ 14,459 $ 18,982 $ 27,767 $ 10,322 $ 26,734 $ 83,106 $ 181,370 (1) represents 75.5% of all outstanding debt. (2) represents 24.5% of all outstanding debt. if market rates of interest on our variable rate debt increased or decreased by 10%, then the increase or decrease in interest expense on the variable rate debt would be $1.9 million annually. as of december 31, 2005, the book value and the estimated fair value of our total consolidated debt (both secured and unsecured) was $3.4 billion based on our estimate of current market interest rates. 62 table of contents as of december 31, 2005 and 2004, variable rate debt comprised 24.5% and 15.3%, respectively, of all our outstanding debt. variable rate debt was $831.7 million and $498.3 million, respectively, as of december 31, 2005 and 2004. the increase is primarily due to higher outstanding balances on our credit facilities. this increase in our outstanding variable rate debt increases our risk associated with unfavorable interest rate fluctuations. financial instruments. we record all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value as an asset or liability, with an offset to accumulated other comprehensive income or income. for revenues or expenses denominated in non-functional currencies, we may use derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk. our derivative financial instruments in effect at december 31, 2005 were two interest rate swaps hedging cash flows of our variable rate borrowings based on euribor (europe) and japanese tibor (japan) and two put options hedging against adverse foreign fluctuations of the mexican peso and the euro against the u.s. dollar. the following table summarizes our financial instruments as of december 31, 2005: maturity dates january 8, march 31, december 8, october 29, notional related derivatives (in thousands) 2006 2006 2008 2012 amount fair value interest rate swaps: plain interest rate swap, japan notional amount (u.s. dollars) $ 110,403 $ 110,403 receive floating(%) 3m tibor pay fixed rate(%) 1.32 % fair market value $ 760 plain interest rate swap, europe notional amount (u.s. dollars) $ 9,118 9,118 receive floating(%) 3m euribor pay fixed rate(%) 3.72 % fair market value foreign exchange agreements: mexico options to sell mxn/ buy usd contract amount (u.s. dollars) $ 4,492 4,492 contract fx rate 10.96 contract premium $ 64 41 europe options to sell eur/ buy (u.s. dollars) contract amount (u.s. dollars) $ 1,180 1,184 contract fx rate 1.18 contract premium $ 5 3 total $ 125,197 $ 631 international operations. our exposure to market risk also includes foreign currency exchange rate risk. the u.s. dollar is the functional currency for our subsidiaries operating in the united states and mexico. the functional currency for our subsidiaries operating outside north america is generally the local currency of the country in which the entity is located, mitigating the effect of foreign exchange gains and losses. our subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the u.s. dollar translate their financial statements into u.s. dollars. assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rate in effect as of the financial statement 63 table of contents date. we translate income statement accounts using the average exchange rate for the period and significant nonrecurring transactions using the rate on the transaction date. the losses resulting from the translation are included in accumulated other comprehensive income as a separate component of stockholders equity and totaled $1.8 million for year ended december 31, 2005. our international subsidiaries may have transactions denominated in currencies other than their functional currency. in these instances, non-monetary assets and liabilities are reflected at the historical exchange rate, monetary assets and liabilities are remeasured at the exchange rate in effect at the end of the period and income statement accounts are remeasured at the average exchange rate for the period. for the year ended december 31, 2005, gains from remeasurement and the sale of one foreign exchange agreement included in our results of operations totaled $0.6 million. we also record gains or losses in the income statement when a transaction with a third party, denominated in a currency other than the entity functional currency, is settled and the functional currency cash flows realized are more or less than expected based upon the exchange rate in effect when the transaction was initiated. we believe that these gains or losses are immaterial.risk factors business risks our operations involve various risks that could have adverse consequences to us. these risks include, among others: general real estate industry risks our performance and value are subject to general economic conditions and risks associated with our real estate assets. the investment returns available from equity investments in real estate depend on the amount of income earned and capital appreciation generated by the properties, as well as the expenses incurred in connection with the properties. if our properties do not generate income sufficient to meet operating expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, then our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders could be adversely affected. in addition, there are significant expenditures associated with an investment in real estate (such as mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs) that generally do not decline when circumstances reduce the income from the property. income from, and the value of, our properties may be adversely affected by: changes in the general economic climate; local conditions, such as oversupply of or a reduction in demand for industrial space; the attractiveness of our properties to potential customers; competition from other properties; our ability to provide adequate maintenance and insurance; increased operating costs; 8 increased cost of compliance with regulations; the potential for liability under applicable laws (including changes in tax laws); and disruptions in the global supply chain caused by political, regulatory or other factors, including terrorism. in addition, periods of economic slowdown or recession in the united states and in other countries, rising interest rates or declining demand for real estate, or public perception that any of these events may occur, would result in a general decrease in rents or an increased occurrence of defaults under existing leases, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. future terrorist attacks may result in declining economic activity, which could reduce the demand for and the value of our properties. to the extent that future attacks impact our customers, their businesses similarly could be adversely affected, including their ability to continue to honor their existing leases. our properties are concentrated predominantly in the industrial real estate sector. as a result of this concentration, we would feel the impact of an economic downturn in this sector more acutely than if our portfolio included other property types. we may be unable to renew leases or relet space as leases expire. as of december 31, 2006, leases on a total of 14.3% of our industrial properties (based on annualized base rent) will expire on or prior to december 31, 2007. we derive most of our income from rent received from our customers. accordingly, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and our ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock could be adversely affected if we are unable to promptly relet or renew these expiring leases or if the rental rates upon renewal or reletting are significantly lower than expected. if a customer experiences a downturn in its business or other type of financial distress, then it may be unable to make timely rental payments or renew its lease. further, our ability to rent space and the rents that we can charge are impacted, not only by customer demand, but by the number of other properties we have to compete with to appeal to customers. actions by our competitors may decrease or prevent increases of the occupancy and rental rates of our properties. we compete with other developers, owners and operators of real estate, some of which own properties similar to ours in the same submarkets in which our properties are located. if our competitors offer space at rental rates below current market rates or below the rental rates we currently charge our customers, we may lose potential customers, and we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we currently charge in order to retain customers when our customers leases expire. as a result, our financial condition, cash flow, cash available for distribution, trading price of our common stock and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations could be materially adversely affected. real estate investments are relatively illiquid, making it difficult for us to respond promptly to changing conditions. real estate assets are not as liquid as certain other types of assets. further, the internal revenue code regulates the number of properties that we as a real estate investment trust, can dispose of in a year, their tax bases and the cost of improvements that we make to the properties. in addition, a portion of the properties held directly or indirectly by certain of our subsidiary partnerships were acquired in exchange for limited partnership units in the applicable partnership. the contribution agreements for such properties may contain restrictions on certain sales, exchanges or other dispositions of these properties, or a portion thereof, that result in a taxable transaction for specified periods, following the contribution of these properties to the applicable partnership. these limitations may affect our ability to sell properties. this lack of liquidity and the internal revenue code restrictions may limit our ability to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions and, as a result, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and our ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock. 9 we could be adversely affected if a significant number of our customers are unable to meet their lease obligations. our results of operations, distributable cash flow and the value of our stock would be adversely affected if a significant number of our customers were unable to meet their lease obligations to us. in the event of a significant number of lease defaults, our cash flow may not be sufficient to pay dividends to our stockholders and repay maturing debt. as of december 31, 2006, we did not have any single customer account for annualized base rent revenues greater than 3.1%. however, in the event of lease defaults by a significant number of our customers, we may incur substantial costs in enforcing our rights as landlord. we may be unable to consummate acquisitions on advantageous terms or acquisitions may not perform as we expect. we acquire and intend to continue to acquire primarily industrial properties. the acquisition of properties entails various risks, including the risks that our investments may not perform as we expect, that we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate our new acquisitions into our existing operations and that our cost estimates for bringing an acquired property up to market standards may prove inaccurate. further, we face significant competition for attractive investment opportunities from other well-capitalized real estate investors, including both publicly-traded real estate investment trusts and private institutional investment funds. this competition increases as investments in real estate become increasingly attractive relative to other forms of investment. as a result of competition, we may be unable to acquire additional properties as we desire or the purchase price may be significantly elevated. in addition, we expect to finance future acquisitions through a combination of borrowings under our unsecured credit facilities, proceeds from equity or debt offerings by us or the operating partnership or its subsidiaries and proceeds from property divestitures, which may not be available and which could adversely affect our cash flow. any of the above risks could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock. we may be unable to complete renovation and development projects on advantageous terms. as part of our business, we develop new and renovate existing properties, and we intend to continue to expand and increase our investment in our development and renovation business. the real estate development and renovation business involves significant risks that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock, which include the following risks: we may not be able to obtain financing for development projects on favorable terms and complete construction on schedule or within budget, resulting in increased debt service expense and construction costs and delays in leasing the properties and generating cash flow; we may not be able to obtain, or may experience delays in obtaining, all necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other governmental permits and authorizations; the properties may perform below anticipated levels, producing cash flow below budgeted amounts; substantial renovation and new development activities, regardless of their ultimate success, typically require a significant amount of management time and attention, diverting their attention from our day-to-day operations; and upon completion of construction, we may not be able to obtain, or obtain on advantageous terms, permanent financing for activities that we have financed through construction loans. risks associated with our international business our international growth is subject to special risks and we may not be able to effectively manage our international growth. we have acquired and developed, and expect to continue to acquire and develop, properties outside the united states. because local markets affect our operations, our international investments are subject to economic 10 fluctuations in the international locations in which we invest. in addition, our international operations are subject to the usual risks of doing business abroad such as revisions in tax treaties or other laws and regulations, including those governing the taxation of our international revenues, restrictions on the transfer of funds, and, in certain parts of the world, uncertainty over property rights and political instability. we cannot predict the likelihood that any of these developments may occur. further, we have entered, and may in the future enter, into agreements with non-u.s. entities that are governed by the laws of, and are subject to dispute resolution in the courts of, another country or region. we cannot accurately predict whether such a forum would provide us with an effective and efficient means of resolving disputes that may arise. and even if we are able to obtain a satisfactory decision through arbitration or a court proceeding, we could have difficulty enforcing any award or judgment on a timely basis or at all. we also have offices in many countries outside the united states and, as a result, our operations may be subject to risks that may limit our ability to effectively establish, staff and manage our offices outside the united states, including: differing employment practices and labor issues; local business and cultural factors that differ from our usual standards and practices; regulatory requirements and prohibitions that differ between jurisdictions; and health concerns. our global growth (including growth in new regions in the u.s.) subjects us to certain risks, including risks associated with funding increasing headcount, integrating new offices, and establishing effective controls and procedures to regulate the operations of new offices. in addition, payroll expenses are paid in local currencies and, therefore, we are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in the rate of exchange between the u.s. dollar and these currencies. further, our business has grown rapidly and continues to grow through international property acquisitions and developments. if we fail to effectively manage our international growth, then our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock could be adversely affected. acquired properties may be located in new markets, where we may face risks associated with investing in an unfamiliar market. we have acquired and may continue to acquire properties in international markets that are new to us. when we acquire properties located in these markets, we may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local economy, forging new business relationships in the area and unfamiliarity with local government and permitting procedures. we work to mitigate such risks through extensive diligence and research and associations with experienced partners; however, there can be no guarantee that all such risks will be eliminated. we are subject to risks from potential fluctuations in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and the currencies of the other countries in which we invest. we are pursuing, and intend to continue to pursue, growth opportunities in international markets. as we invest in countries where the u.s. dollar is not the national currency, we are subject to international currency risks from the potential fluctuations in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and the currencies of those other countries. a significant depreciation in the value of the currency of one or more countries where we have a significant investment may materially affect our results of operations. we attempt to mitigate any such effects by borrowing under our multi-currency credit facility in the currency of the country we are investing in and, under certain circumstances, by putting in place international currency put option contracts to hedge exchange rate fluctuations. for leases denominated in international currencies, we may use derivative financial instruments to manage the international currency exchange risk. we cannot, however, assure you that our efforts will successfully neutralize all international currency risks. if we do engage in international currency exchange rate hedging activities, any income recognized with respect to these hedges (as well as any international currency gain recognized with respect to changes in 11 exchange rates) may not qualify under the 75% gross income test or the 95% gross income test that we must satisfy annually in order to qualify and maintain our status as a real estate investment trust. general business risks our performance and value are impacted by the local economic conditions of and the risks associated with doing business in california. as of december 31, 2006, our industrial properties located in california represented 25.3% of the aggregate square footage of our industrial operating properties and 25.4% of our industrial annualized base rent, on an owned and managed basis. our revenue from, and the value of, our properties located in california may be affected by local real estate conditions (such as an oversupply of or reduced demand for industrial properties) and the local economic climate. business layoffs, downsizing, industry slowdowns, changing demographics and other factors may adversely impact california economic climate. because of the number of properties we have located in california, a downturn in california economy or real estate conditions could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock. we may experience losses that our insurance does not cover. we carry commercial liability, property and rental loss insurance covering all the properties that we own and manage in types and amounts that we believe are adequate and appropriate given the relative risks applicable to the property, the cost of coverage and industry practice. certain losses, such as those due to terrorism, windstorms, floods or seismic activity, may be insured subject to certain limitations, including large deductibles or co-payments and policy limits. although we have obtained coverage for certain acts of terrorism, with policy specifications and insured limits that we consider commercially reasonable given the cost and availability of such coverage, we cannot be certain that we will be able to renew coverage on comparable terms or collect under such policies. in addition, there are other types of losses, such as those from riots, bio-terrorism or acts of war, that are not generally insured in our industry because it is not economically feasible to do so. we may incur material losses in excess of insurance proceeds and we may not be able to continue to obtain insurance at commercially reasonable rates. if we experience a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds our insured limits with respect to one or more of our properties, then we could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties, as well as the anticipated future revenue from those properties and, if there is recourse debt, then we would remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the properties. moreover, as the general partner of the operating partnership, we generally will be liable for all of the operating partnership unsatisfied recourse obligations, including any obligations incurred by the operating partnership as the general partner of co-investment joint ventures. any such losses could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock. a number of our properties are located in areas that are known to be subject to earthquake activity. u.s. properties located in active seismic areas include properties in the san francisco bay area, los angeles, and seattle. our largest concentration of such properties is in california where, on an owned and managed basis, as of december 31, 2006, we had 267 industrial buildings, aggregating approximately 25.5 million square feet and representing 25.3% of our industrial operating properties based on aggregate square footage and 25.4% based on industrial annualized base rent, on an owned and managed basis. international properties located in active seismic areas include tokyo and osaka, japan and mexico city, mexico. we carry earthquake insurance on all of our properties located in areas historically subject to seismic activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles that we believe are commercially reasonable. we evaluate our earthquake insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants. a number of our properties are located in areas that are known to be subject to hurricane and/or flood risk. we carry hurricane and flood hazard insurance on all of our properties located in areas historically subject to such activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles that we believe are commercially reasonable. we evaluate our insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants. in 2005, various properties that we own or lease in new orleans, louisiana and south florida suffered damage as a result of hurricanes katrina and wilma. although we expect that our insurance will cover losses 12 arising from this damage in excess of the deductibles paid by us and do not believe that such losses would have a material adverse effect on our business, assets or results from operations, we cannot assure you that we will be reimbursed for all losses incurred. we are subject to risks and liabilities in connection with properties owned through joint ventures, limited liability companies and partnerships. as of december 31, 2006, we owned approximately 64.3 million square feet of our properties through several joint ventures, limited liability companies or partnerships with third parties. our organizational documents do not limit the amount of available funds that we may invest in partnerships, limited liability companies or joint ventures and we intend to continue to develop and acquire properties through joint ventures, limited liability companies and partnerships with other persons or entities when warranted by the circumstances. such partners may share certain approval rights over major decisions. partnership, limited liability company or joint venture investments involve certain risks, including: if our partners, co-members or joint venturers go bankrupt, then we and any other remaining general partners, members or joint venturers would generally remain liable for the partnership s, limited liability company or joint venture liabilities; if our partners fail to fund their share of any required capital contributions, then we may be required to contribute such capital; our partners, co-members or joint venturers might have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals that would affect our ability to operate the property; our partners, co-members or joint venturers may have the power to act contrary to our instructions, requests, policies or objectives, including our current policy with respect to maintaining our qualification as a real estate investment trust; the joint venture, limited liability and partnership agreements often restrict the transfer of a joint venture s, member or partner interest or may otherwise restrict our ability to sell the interest when we desire or on advantageous terms; our relationships with our partners, co-members or joint ventures are contractual in nature and may be terminated or dissolved under the terms of the agreements, and in such event, we may not continue to own or operate the interests or assets underlying such relationship or may need to purchase such interests or assets at an above-market price to continue ownership; disputes between us and our partners, co-members or joint venturers may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and directors from focusing their time and effort on our business and result in subjecting the properties owned by the applicable partnership, limited liability company, or joint venture to additional risk; and we may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of our partners, co-members or joint venturers. we generally seek to maintain sufficient control of our partnerships, limited liability companies and joint ventures to permit us to achieve our business objectives, however, we may not be able to do so, and the occurrence of one or more of the events described above could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock. we may be unable to complete divestitures on advantageous terms or contribute properties. we intend to continue to divest ourselves of properties that do not meet our strategic objectives, provided that we can negotiate acceptable terms and conditions. our ability to dispose of properties on advantageous terms depends on factors beyond our control, including competition from other sellers and the availability of attractive financing for potential buyers of our properties. if we are unable to dispose of properties on favorable terms or redeploy the proceeds of property divestitures in accordance with our investment strategy, then our financial 13 condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock could be adversely affected. we also anticipate contributing or selling properties to funds and joint ventures. if the funds are unable to raise additional capital on favorable terms after currently available capital is depleted or if the value of such properties are appraised at less than the cost of such properties, then such contributions or sales could be delayed or prevented, adversely affecting our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock. for example, although we have acquired land for development and made capital commitments in japan and mexico, we cannot be assured that we ultimately will be able to contribute such properties to funds or joint ventures as we have planned. contingent or unknown liabilities could adversely affect our financial condition. we have acquired and may in the future acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities. as a result, if a liability were asserted against us based upon ownership of any of these entities or properties, then we might have to pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely affect our cash flow. contingent or unknown liabilities with respect to entities or properties acquired might include: liabilities for environmental conditions; accrued but unpaid liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; tax liabilities; and claims for indemnification by the general partners, officers and directors and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties. we are dependent on external sources of capital. in order to qualify as a real estate investment trust, we are required each year to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our real estate investment trust taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends-paid deduction and by excluding any net capital gain) and are taxed on our income to the extent it is not fully distributed. consequently, we may not be able to fund all future capital needs, including acquisition and development activities, from cash retained from operations and must rely on third-party sources of capital. further, in order to maintain our real estate investment trust status and avoid the payment of income and excise taxes, we may need to borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the real estate investment trust distribution requirements even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings. these short-term borrowing needs could result from differences in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for federal income tax purposes, or the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt or amortization payments. our ability to access private debt and equity capital on favorable terms or at all is dependent upon a number of factors, including general market conditions, the market perception of our growth potential, our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions and the market price of our capital stock. debt financing risks we could incur more debt, increasing our debt service. it is our policy to incur debt, either directly or through our subsidiaries, only if it will not cause our share of total debt-to-our share of total market capitalization ratio to exceed approximately 45%. our definition of our share of total market capitalization is our share of total debt plus preferred equity liquidation preferences plus market equity. see footnote 1 to the capitalization ratios table contained in part ii, item 7: management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation liquidity and capital resources for our definitions of market equity and our share of total debt. the aggregate amount of indebtedness that we may incur under our policy increases directly with an increase in the market price per share of our capital stock. further, our management could alter or eliminate this policy without stockholder approval. if we change this policy, then we 14 could become more highly leveraged, resulting in an increase in debt service that could adversely affect the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. we face risks associated with the use of debt to fund acquisitions and developments, including refinancing risk. as of december 31, 2006, we had total debt outstanding of $3.4 billion. we guarantee the operating partnership obligations with respect to the senior debt securities referenced in our financial statements. we are subject to risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest. we anticipate that we will repay only a small portion of the principal of our debt prior to maturity. accordingly, we will likely need to refinance at least a portion of our outstanding debt as it matures. there is a risk that we may not be able to refinance existing debt or that the terms of any refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of our existing debt. if we are unable to refinance or extend principal payments due at maturity or pay them with proceeds of other capital transactions, then we expect that our cash flow will not be sufficient in all years to pay dividends to our stockholders and to repay all such maturing debt. furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing (such as the reluctance of lenders to make commercial real estate loans) result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. in addition, if we mortgage one or more of our properties to secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet mortgage payments, then the property could be foreclosed upon or transferred to the mortgagee with a consequent loss of income and asset value. a foreclosure on one or more of our properties could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock. covenants in our debt agreements could adversely affect our financial condition. the terms of our credit agreements and other indebtedness require that we comply with a number of financial and other covenants, such as maintaining debt service coverage and leverage ratios and maintaining insurance coverage. these covenants may limit flexibility in our operations, and our failure to comply with these covenants could cause a default under the applicable debt agreement even if we have satisfied our payment obligations. as of december 31, 2006, we had certain non-recourse, secured loans, which are cross-collateralized by multiple properties. if we default on any of these loans, we may then be required to repay such indebtedness, together with applicable prepayment charges, to avoid foreclosure on all the cross-collateralized properties within the applicable pool. foreclosure on our properties, or our inability to refinance our loans on favorable terms, could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock. in addition, our credit facilities and senior debt securities contain certain cross-default provisions, which are triggered in the event that our other material indebtedness is in default. these cross-default provisions may require us to repay or restructure the credit facilities and the senior debt securities in addition to any mortgage or other debt that is in default, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock. failure to hedge effectively against interest rates may adversely affect results of operations. we seek to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements, such as interest rate cap agreements and interest rate swap agreements. these agreements involve risks, such as the risk that the counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes and that a court could rule that such agreements are not legally enforceable. hedging may reduce overall returns on our investments. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may materially adversely affect our results of operations. 15 conflicts of interest risks some of our directors and executive officers are involved in other real estate activities and investments and, therefore, may have conflicts of interest with us. from time to time, certain of our executive officers and directors may own interests in other real-estate related businesses and investments, including de minimis holdings of the equity securities of public and private real estate companies. our executive officers involvement in other real estate-related activities could divert their attention from our day-to-day operations. our executive officers have entered into non-competition agreements with us pursuant to which they have agreed not to engage in any activities, directly or indirectly, in respect of commercial real estate, and not to make any investment in respect of any industrial or retail real estate, other than through ownership of not more than 5% of the outstanding shares of a public company engaged in such activities or through certain specified investments. state law may limit our ability to enforce these agreements. we will not acquire any properties from our executive officers, directors or their affiliates unless the transaction is approved by a majority of the disinterested and independent (as defined by the rules of the new york stock exchange) members of our board of directors with respect to that transaction. our role as general partner of the operating partnership may conflict with the interests of our stockholders. as the general partner of the operating partnership, we have fiduciary obligations to the operating partnership limited partners, the discharge of which may conflict with the interests of our stockholders. in addition, those persons holding limited partnership units will have the right to vote as a class on certain amendments to the operating partnership partnership agreement and individually to approve certain amendments that would adversely affect their rights. the limited partners may exercise these voting rights in a manner that conflicts with the interests of our stockholders. in addition, under the terms of the operating partnership partnership agreement, holders of limited partnership units will have certain approval rights with respect to certain transactions that affect all stockholders but which they may not exercise in a manner that reflects the interests of all stockholders. risks associated with government regulations the costs of compliance with environmental laws and regulations and any related potential liability could exceed our budgets for these items. under various environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be liable for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products at, on, under or in its property. the costs of removal or remediation of such substances could be substantial. these laws typically impose liability and clean-up responsibility without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. even if more than one person may have been responsible for the contamination, each person covered by the environmental laws may be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs incurred. in addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages based on personal injury, property damage or other costs, including investigation and clean-up costs, resulting from the environmental contamination. environmental laws in some countries, including the u.s., also require that owners or operators of buildings containing asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos, adequately inform or train those who may come into contact with asbestos and undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, in the event that asbestos is disturbed during building renovation or demolition. these laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos. some of our properties may contain asbestos-containing building materials. in addition, some of our properties are leased or have been leased, in part, to owners and operators of businesses that use, store or otherwise handle petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, creating a potential for the release of such hazardous or toxic substances. further, certain of our properties are on, adjacent to or near other properties that have contained or currently contain petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic 16 substances, or upon which others have engaged, are engaged or may engage in activities that may release such hazardous or toxic substances. from time to time, we may acquire properties, or interests in properties, with known adverse environmental conditions where we believe that the environmental liabilities associated with these conditions are quantifiable and that the acquisition will yield a superior risk-adjusted return. in such an instance, we underwrite the costs of environmental investigation, clean-up and monitoring into the acquisition cost and obtain appropriate environmental insurance for the property. further, in connection with certain divested properties, we have agreed to remain responsible for, and to bear the cost of, remediating or monitoring certain environmental conditions on the properties. at the time of acquisition, we subject all of our properties to a phase i or similar environmental assessments by independent environmental consultants and we may have additional phase ii testing performed upon the consultant recommendation. these environmental assessments have not revealed, and we are not aware of, any environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations taken as a whole. nonetheless, it is possible that the assessments did not reveal all environmental liabilities and that there are material environmental liabilities unknown to us, or that known environmental conditions may give rise to liabilities that are greater than we anticipated. further, our properties current environmental condition may be affected by customers, the condition of land, operations in the vicinity of the properties (such as releases from underground storage tanks) or by unrelated third parties. if the costs of compliance with existing or future environmental laws and regulations exceed our budgets for these items, then our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock could be adversely affected. compliance or failure to comply with the americans with disabilities act and other similar regulations could result in substantial costs. under the americans with disabilities act, places of public accommodation must meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the award of damages to private litigants. if we are required to make unanticipated expenditures to comply with the americans with disabilities act, including removing access barriers, then our cash flow and the amounts available for dividends to our stockholders may be adversely affected. our properties are also subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life-safety requirements. we could incur fines or private damage awards if we fail to comply with these requirements. while we believe that our properties are currently in material compliance with these regulatory requirements, the requirements may change or new requirements may be imposed that could require significant unanticipated expenditures by us that will affect our cash flow and results of operations. federal income tax risks our failure to qualify as a real estate investment trust would have serious adverse consequences to our stockholders. we elected to be taxed as a real estate investment trust under sections 856 through 860 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the internal revenue code ) commencing with our taxable year ended december 31, 1997. we currently intend to operate so as to qualify as a real estate investment trust under the internal revenue code and believe that our current organization and method of operation comply with the rules and regulations promulgated under the internal revenue code to enable us to continue to qualify as a real estate investment trust. however, it is possible that we have been organized or have operated in a manner that would not allow us to qualify as a real estate investment trust, or that our future operations could cause us to fail to qualify. qualification as a real estate investment trust requires us to satisfy numerous requirements (some on an annual and others on a quarterly basis) established under highly technical and complex internal revenue code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations, and involves the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. for example, in order to qualify as a real estate investment trust, we must derive at least 95% of our gross income in any year from qualifying sources. in addition, we must pay dividends to stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our real estate investment trust taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding capital gains) and must satisfy 17 specified asset tests on a quarterly basis. these provisions and the applicable treasury regulations are more complicated in our case because we hold our assets through the operating partnership. legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly change the tax laws with respect to qualification as a real estate investment trust or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification. however, we are not aware of any pending tax legislation that would adversely affect our ability to qualify as a real estate investment trust. if we fail to qualify as a real estate investment trust in any taxable year, then we will be required to pay federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. unless we are entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from treatment as a real estate investment trust for the four taxable years following the year in which we lost qualification. if we lose our real estate investment trust status, then our net earnings available for investment or distribution to stockholders would be significantly reduced for each of the years involved. in addition, we would no longer be required to make distributions to our stockholders. certain property transfers may generate prohibited transaction income, resulting in a penalty tax on gain attributable to the transaction. from time to time, we may transfer or otherwise dispose of some of our properties, including the contribution of properties to our joint venture funds. under the internal revenue code, any gain resulting from transfers of properties that we hold as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business would be treated as income from a prohibited transaction subject to a 100% penalty tax. since we acquire properties for investment purposes, we do not believe that our occasional transfers or disposals of property or our contributions of properties into our joint venture funds are properly treated as prohibited transactions. however, whether property is held for investment purposes is a question of fact that depends on all the facts and circumstances surrounding the particular transaction. the internal revenue service may contend that certain transfers or disposals of properties by us or contributions of properties into our joint venture funds are prohibited transactions. while we believe that the internal revenue service would not prevail in any such dispute, if the internal revenue service were to argue successfully that a transfer or disposition or contribution of property constituted a prohibited transaction, then we would be required to pay a 100% penalty tax on any gain allocable to us from the prohibited transaction. in addition, income from a prohibited transaction might adversely affect our ability to satisfy the income tests for qualification as a real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes. risks associated with our dependence on key personnel we depend on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. from time to time, our personnel and their roles may change. while we believe that we could find suitable employees to meet our personnel needs, the loss of key personnel, any change in their roles, or the limitation of their availability could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock. we do not have employment agreements with any of our executive officers. because our compensation packages include equity-based incentives, pressure on our stock price or limitations on our ability to award such incentives could affect our ability to offer competitive compensation packages to our executives and key employees. if we are unable to continue to attract and retain our executive officers, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain key employees become more expensive, our performance and competitive position could be materially adversely affected. risks associated with our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting our business could be adversely impacted if we have deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting. the design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors, misstatements or misrepresentations. while management will continue to review the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, 18 there can be no guarantee that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. deficiencies, including any material weakness, in our internal control over financial reporting which may occur in the future could result in misstatements of our results of operations, restatements of our financial statements, a decline in our stock price, or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. risks associated with ownership of our stock limitations in our charter and bylaws could prevent a change in control. certain provisions of our charter and bylaws may delay, defer or prevent a change in control or other transaction that could provide the holders of our common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for the common stock. to maintain our qualification as a real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding stock may be owned, actually or constructively, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the internal revenue code to include certain entities) during the last half of a taxable year after the first taxable year for which a real estate investment trust election is made. furthermore, our common stock must be held by a minimum of 100 persons for at least 335 days of a 12-month taxable year (or a proportionate part of a short tax year). in addition, if we, or an owner of 10% or more of our stock, actually or constructively owns 10% or more of one of our customers (or a customer of any partnership in which we are a partner), then the rent received by us (either directly or through any such partnership) from that customer will not be qualifying income for purposes of the real estate investment trust gross income tests of the internal revenue code. to help us maintain our qualification as a real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes, we prohibit the ownership, actually or by virtue of the constructive ownership provisions of the internal revenue code, by any single person, of more than 9.8% (by value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the issued and outstanding shares of each of our common stock, series l preferred stock, series m preferred stock, series o preferred stock, and series p preferred stock. we also prohibit the ownership, actually or constructively, of any shares of our series d, i, j and k preferred stock by any single person so that no such person, taking into account all of our stock so owned by such person, including any common stock or other series of preferred stock, may own in excess of 9.8% of our issued and outstanding capital stock. we refer to this limitation as the ownership limit. shares acquired or held in violation of the ownership limit will be transferred to a trust for the benefit of a designated charitable beneficiary. any person who acquires shares in violation of the ownership limit will not be entitled to any dividends on the shares or be entitled to vote the shares or receive any proceeds from the subsequent sale of the shares in excess of the lesser of the price paid for the shares or the amount realized from the sale. a transfer of shares in violation of the above limits may be void under certain circumstances. the ownership limit may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control and, therefore, could adversely affect our stockholders ability to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for the shares of our common stock in connection with such transaction. our charter authorizes us to issue additional shares of common and preferred stock and to establish the preferences, rights and other terms of any series or class of preferred stock that we issue. although our board of directors has no intention to do so at the present time, it could establish a series or class of preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction, including a change in control, that might involve a premium price for the common stock or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. our charter and bylaws and maryland law also contain other provisions that may impede various actions by stockholders without approval of our board of directors, which in turn may delay, defer or prevent a transaction, including a change in control. those provisions in our charter and bylaws include: directors may be removed only for cause and only upon a two-thirds vote of stockholders; our board can fix the number of directors within set limits (which limits are subject to change by our board), and fill vacant directorships upon the vote of a majority of the remaining directors, even though less than a quorum, or in the case of a vacancy resulting from an increase in the size of the board, a majority of the entire board; 19 stockholders must give advance notice to nominate directors or propose business for consideration at a stockholders meeting; and the request of the holders of 50% or more of our common stock is necessary for stockholders to call a special meeting. those provisions provided for under maryland law include: a two-thirds vote of stockholders is required to amend our charter; and stockholders may only act by written consent with the unanimous approval of all stockholders entitled to vote on the matter in question. in addition, our board could elect to adopt, without stockholder approval, certain other provisions under maryland law that may impede a change in control. the market value of our stock could be substantially affected by various factors. as with other publicly traded securities, the trading price of our stock will depend on many factors that are not within our control and may change from time to time, including: the extent of investor interest in us; the market for similar securities issued by real estate investment trusts; the general reputation of real estate investment trusts and the attractiveness of their equity securities in comparison to other equity securities (including securities issued by other real estate-based companies); general stock and bond market conditions, including changes in interest rates on fixed income securities, that may lead prospective purchasers of our stock to demand a higher annual yield from future dividends; terrorist activity may adversely affect the markets in which our securities trade, possibly increasing market volatility and causing the further erosion of business and consumer confidence and spending; general economic conditions; and our financial condition, performance and prospects. other factors such as governmental regulatory action and changes in tax laws could also have a significant impact on the future trading price of our stock. if we issue additional securities, then the investment of existing stockholders will be diluted. as a real estate investment trust, we are dependent on external sources of capital and may issue common or preferred stock or debt securities to fund our future capital needs. we have authority to issue shares of common stock or other equity or debt securities, and to cause the operating partnership or amb property ii, l.p., to issue limited partnership units, in exchange for property or otherwise. existing stockholders have no preemptive right to acquire any additional securities issued by the operating partnership, amb property ii, l.p., or us and any issuance of additional equity securities may adversely effect the market price of our stock and could result in dilution of an existing stockholder investment. earnings, cash dividends, asset value and market interest rates affect the price of our stock. as a real estate investment trust, the market value of our equity securities, in general, is based primarily upon the market perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash dividends. our equity securities market value is based secondarily upon the market value of our underlying real estate assets. for this reason, shares of our stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than our net asset value per share. to the extent that we retain operating cash flow for investment purposes, working capital reserves, or other purposes, these retained funds, while increasing the value of our underlying assets, may not correspondingly increase the market price of our stock. our failure to meet the market expectations with regard to future earnings and cash dividends likely would adversely affect the market price of our stock. further, the distribution yield on the stock (as 20 a percentage of the price of the stock) relative to market interest rates may also influence the price of our stock. an increase in market interest rates might lead prospective purchasers of our stock to expect a higher distribution yield, which would adversely affect our stock market price. additionally, if the market price of our stock declines significantly, then we might breach certain covenants with respect to our debt obligations, which could adversely affect our liquidity and ability to make future acquisitions and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. we could change our investment and financing policies without a vote of stockholders. subject to our current investment policy to maintain our qualification as a real estate investment trust (unless a change is approved by our board of directors under certain circumstances), our board of directors determines our investment and financing policies, our growth strategy and our debt, capitalization, distribution and operating policies. our board of directors may revise or amend these strategies and policies at any time without a vote of stockholders. any such changes may not serve the interests of all stockholders and could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations, including our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. shares available for future sale could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. the operating partnership and amb property ii, l.p. had 4,709,056 common limited partnership units issued and outstanding as of december 31, 2006, which may be exchanged generally one year after their issuance on a one-for-one basis into shares of our common stock. in the future, the operating partnership or amb property ii, l.p. may issue additional limited partnership units, and we may issue shares of common stock, in connection with the acquisition of properties or in private placements. these shares of common stock and the shares of common stock issuable upon exchange of limited partnership units may be sold in the public securities markets over time, pursuant to registration rights that we have granted, or may grant in connection with future issuances, or pursuant to rule 144. in addition, common stock issued under our stock option and incentive plans may also be sold in the market pursuant to registration statements that we have filed or pursuant to rule 144. as of december 31, 2006, under our stock option and incentive plans, we had 3,230,106 shares of common stock reserved and available for future issuance, had outstanding options to purchase 6,843,025 shares of common stock (of which 5,404,361 are vested and exercisable) and had 611,549 unvested restricted shares of common stock outstanding. future sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the market or the perception that such sales might occur could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. further, the existence of the operating partnership limited partnership units and the shares of our common stock reserved for issuance upon exchange of limited partnership units and the exercise of options, and registration rights referred to above, may adversely affect the terms upon which we are able to obtain additional capital through the sale of equity securities. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the risk of loss from adverse changes in market prices, interest rates and international exchange rates. our future earnings and cash flows are dependent upon prevailing market rates. accordingly, we manage our market risk by matching projected cash inflows from operating, investing and financing activities with projected cash outflows for debt service, acquisitions, capital expenditures, distributions to stockholders and unitholders, and other cash requirements. the majority of our outstanding debt has fixed interest rates, which minimize the risk of fluctuating interest rates. our exposure to market risk includes interest rate fluctuations in connection with our credit facilities and other variable rate borrowings and our ability to incur more debt without stockholder approval, thereby increasing our debt service obligations, which could adversely affect our cash flows. as of december 31, 2006, we had three outstanding interest rate swaps with an aggregate notional amount of $38.1 million (in u.s. dollars). see financial instruments below. the table below summarizes the market risks associated with our fixed and variable rate debt outstanding before net unamortized debt discounts of $4.3 million as of december 31, 2006 (dollars in thousands): 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 thereafter total fixed rate debt(1) $ 155,384 $ 368,141 $ 152,151 $ 430,676 $ 288,835 $ 768,320 $ 2,163,507 average interest rate 6.7 % 7.1 % 4.7 % 6.4 % 6.8 % 5.9 % 6.3 % variable rate debt(2) $ 58,485 $ 22,604 $ 49,189 $ 854,543 $ 18,981 $ 274,379 $ 1,278,181 average interest rate 5.9 % 6.6 % 6.8 % 3.1 % 3.8 % 4.9 % 3.8 % interest payments $ 13,861 $ 27,630 $ 10,496 $ 54,054 $ 20,362 $ 58,775 $ 185,178 (1) represents 62.9% of all outstanding debt. (2) represents 37.1% of all outstanding debt. if market rates of interest on our variable rate debt increased or decreased by 10%, then the increase or decrease in interest expense on the variable rate debt would be $4.9 million (net of swaps) annually. as of december 31, 65 2006, the book value and the estimated fair value of our total consolidated debt (both secured and unsecured) was $3.4 and $3.5 billion, respectively, based on our estimate of current market interest rates. as of december 31, 2006 and 2005, variable rate debt comprised 37.1% and 24.5%, respectively, of all our outstanding debt. variable rate debt was $1.3 billion and $831.7 million, respectively, as of december 31, 2006 and 2005. the increase is primarily due to higher outstanding balances on our credit facilities. this increase in our outstanding variable rate debt increases our risk associated with unfavorable interest rate fluctuations. financial instruments. we record all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value as an asset or liability, with an offset to accumulated other comprehensive income or income. for revenues or expenses denominated in non-functional currencies, we may use derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk. our derivative financial instruments in effect at december 31, 2006 were three interest rate swaps hedging cash flows of our variable rate borrowings based on u.s. libor (usd) and euribor (europe). the following table summarizes our financial instruments as of december 31, 2006 (in thousands): maturity dates related derivatives (in thousands) december 8, 2008 june 8, 2010 november 1, 2014 notional amount fair value interest rate swaps: plain interest rate swap, europe notional amount (u.s. dollars) $ 9,655 $ 9,655 receive floating(%) 3meuribor pay fixed rate(%) 3.72 % fair market value $ 54 plain interest rate swap, usd notional amount (u.s. dollars) $ 25,000 25,000 receive floating(%) 3mlibor pay fixed rate(%) 5.17 % fair market value (130 ) plain interest rate swap, europe notional amount (u.s. dollars) $ 3,471 3,471 receive floating(%) 3meuribor pay fixed rate(%) 4.26 % fair market value (45 ) total $ 38,126 $ (121 ) international operations. our exposure to market risk also includes foreign currency exchange rate risk. the u.s. dollar is the functional currency for our subsidiaries operating in the united states and mexico. the functional currency for our subsidiaries operating outside the united states is generally the local currency of the country in which the entity is located, mitigating the effect of foreign exchange gains and losses. our subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the u.s. dollar translate their financial statements into u.s. dollars. assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rate in effect as of the financial statement date. we translate income statement accounts using the average exchange rate for the period and significant nonrecurring transactions using the rate on the transaction date. the losses resulting from the translation are included in accumulated other comprehensive income as a separate component of stockholders equity and totaled $0.2 million for year ended december 31, 2006. our international subsidiaries may have transactions denominated in currencies other than their functional currency. in these instances, non-monetary assets and liabilities are reflected at the historical exchange rate, monetary assets and liabilities are remeasured at the exchange rate in effect at the end of the period and income statement accounts are remeasured at the average exchange rate for the period. for the year ended december 31, 2006, losses from remeasurement and the sale of four foreign exchange agreements included in our results of operations totaled $0.8 million. we also record gains or losses in the income statement when a transaction with a third party, denominated in a currency other than the entity functional currency, is settled and the functional currency cash flows realized are more or less than expected based upon the exchange rate in effect when the transaction was initiated. 66risk factors general real estate industry risks risks associated with our international business general business risks debt financing risks conflicts of interest risks risks associated with government regulations federal income tax risks risks associated with our dependence on key personnel risks associated with our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting risks associated with ownership of our stock risk factors business risks our operations involve various risks that could have adverse consequences to us. these risks include, among others: general real estate industry risks our performance and value are subject to general economic conditions and risks associated with our real estate assets. the investment returns available from equity investments in real estate depend on the amount of income earned and capital appreciation generated by the properties, as well as the expenses incurred in connection with the properties. if our properties do not generate income sufficient to meet operating expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, then our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders could be adversely affected. in addition, there are significant expenditures associated with an investment in real estate (such as mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs) that generally do not decline when circumstances reduce the income from the property. income from, and the value of, our properties may be adversely affected by: changes in the general economic climate, including rising inflation; local conditions, such as oversupply of or a reduction in demand for industrial space; the attractiveness of our properties to potential customers; competition from other properties; our ability to provide adequate maintenance and insurance; increased operating costs; increased cost of compliance with regulations; the potential for liability under applicable laws (including changes in tax laws); and disruptions in the global supply chain caused by political, regulatory or other factors, including terrorism. in addition, periods of economic slowdown or recession in the united states and in other countries, rising interest rates or declining demand for real estate, or public perception that any of these events may occur, would result in a general decrease in rents, an increased occurrence of defaults under existing leases or greater difficulty in financing our acquisition and development activities, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. future terrorist attacks may result in declining economic activity, which could reduce the demand for and the value of our properties. to the extent that future attacks impact our customers, their businesses similarly could be adversely affected, including their ability to continue to honor their existing leases. our properties are concentrated predominantly in the industrial real estate sector. as a result of this concentration, we would feel the impact of an economic downturn in this sector more acutely than if our portfolio included other property types. we may be unable to renew leases or relet space as leases expire. as of december 31, 2007, on an owned and managed basis, leases on a total of 13.2% of our industrial properties (based on annualized base rent) will expire on or prior to december 31, 2008. we derive most of our income from rent received from our customers. accordingly, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and our ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock could be adversely affected if we are unable to promptly relet or renew these expiring leases or if the rental rates upon renewal or reletting are significantly lower than expected. if a customer experiences a downturn in its business or other type of financial distress, then it may be unable to make timely rental payments or renew its lease. further, our ability to rent space 8 table of contents and the rents that we can charge are impacted, not only by customer demand, but by the number of other properties we have to compete with to appeal to customers. actions by our competitors may decrease or prevent increases of the occupancy and rental rates of our properties. we compete with other developers, owners and operators of real estate, some of which own properties similar to ours in the same submarkets in which our properties are located. if our competitors offer space at rental rates below current market rates or below the rental rates we currently charge our customers, we may lose potential customers, and we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we currently charge in order to retain customers when our customers leases expire. as a result, our financial condition, cash flow, cash available for distribution, trading price of our common stock and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations could be materially adversely affected. real estate investments are relatively illiquid, making it difficult for us to respond promptly to changing conditions. real estate assets are not as liquid as certain other types of assets. further, the internal revenue code regulates the number of properties that we, as a real estate investment trust, can dispose of in a year, their tax bases and the cost of improvements that we make to the properties. in addition, a portion of the properties held directly or indirectly by certain of our subsidiary partnerships were acquired in exchange for limited partnership units in the applicable partnership. the contribution agreements for such properties may contain restrictions on certain sales, exchanges or other dispositions of these properties, or a portion thereof, that result in a taxable transaction for specified periods, following the contribution of these properties to the applicable partnership. these limitations may affect our ability to sell properties. this lack of liquidity and the internal revenue code restrictions may limit our ability to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions and, as a result, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock. we could be adversely affected if a significant number of our customers are unable to meet their lease obligations. our results of operations, distributable cash flow and the value of our stock would be adversely affected if a significant number of our customers were unable to meet their lease obligations to us. in the event of a significant number of lease defaults, our cash flow may not be sufficient to pay dividends to our stockholders and repay maturing debt. as of december 31, 2007, on an owned and managed basis, we did not have any single customer account for annualized base rent revenues greater than 3.5%. however, in the event of lease defaults by a significant number of our customers, we may incur substantial costs in enforcing our rights as landlord. we may be unable to consummate acquisitions on advantageous terms or acquisitions may not perform as we expect. we acquire and intend to continue to acquire primarily industrial properties. the acquisition of properties entails various risks, including the risks that our investments may not perform as we expect, that we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate our new acquisitions into our existing operations and that our cost estimates for bringing an acquired property up to market standards may prove inaccurate. further, we face significant competition for attractive investment opportunities from other well-capitalized real estate investors, including both publicly-traded real estate investment trusts and private institutional investment funds. this competition increases as investments in real estate become increasingly attractive relative to other forms of investment. as a result of competition, we may be unable to acquire additional properties as we desire or the purchase price may be significantly elevated. in addition, we expect to finance future acquisitions through a combination of borrowings under our unsecured credit facilities, proceeds from equity or debt offerings by us or the operating partnership or our subsidiaries and proceeds from property divestitures, which may not be available and which could adversely affect our cash flow. any of the above risks could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock. 9 table of contents we may be unable to complete renovation, development and redevelopment projects on advantageous terms. as part of our business, we develop new and renovate and redevelop existing properties, and we intend to continue to expand and increase our investment in our development, renovation and redevelopment business. the real estate development, renovation and redevelopment business involves significant risks that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock, which include the following risks: we may not be able to obtain financing for development projects on favorable terms and complete construction on schedule or within budget, resulting in increased debt service expense and construction costs and delays in leasing the properties and generating cash flow; we may not be able to obtain, or may experience delays in obtaining, all necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other governmental permits and authorizations; the properties may perform below anticipated levels, producing cash flow below budgeted amounts; we may not be able to capture the anticipated enhanced value created by our value-added conversion projects ever or on our expected timetables; substantial renovation, new development and redevelopment activities, regardless of their ultimate success, typically require a significant amount of management time and attention, diverting their attention from our day-to-day operations; and upon completion of construction, we may not be able to obtain, or obtain on advantageous terms, permanent financing for activities that we have financed through construction loans. risks associated with our international business our international growth is subject to special risks and we may not be able to effectively manage our international growth. we have acquired and developed, and expect to continue to acquire and develop, properties outside the united states. because local markets affect our operations, our international investments are subject to economic fluctuations in the international locations in which we invest. in addition, our international operations are subject to the usual risks of doing business abroad such as revisions in tax treaties or other laws and regulations, including those governing the taxation of our international revenues, restrictions on the transfer of funds, and, in certain parts of the world, uncertainty over property rights and political instability. we cannot predict the likelihood that any of these developments may occur. further, we have entered, and may in the future enter, into agreements with non-u.s. entities that are governed by the laws of, and are subject to dispute resolution in the courts of, another country or region. we cannot accurately predict whether such a forum would provide us with an effective and efficient means of resolving disputes that may arise. further, even if we are able to obtain a satisfactory decision through arbitration or a court proceeding, we could have difficulty enforcing any award or judgment on a timely basis or at all. we also have offices in many countries outside the united states and, as a result, our operations may be subject to risks that may limit our ability to effectively establish, staff and manage our offices outside the united states, including: differing employment practices and labor issues; local business and cultural factors that differ from our usual standards and practices; regulatory requirements and prohibitions that differ between jurisdictions; and health concerns. our global growth (including growth in new regions in the united states) subjects us to certain risks, including risks associated with funding increasing headcount, integrating new offices, and establishing effective controls and 10 table of contents procedures to regulate the operations of new offices. in addition, payroll expenses are paid in local currencies and, therefore, we are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in the rate of exchange between the u.s. dollar and these currencies. further, our business has grown rapidly and continues to grow through international property acquisitions and developments. if we fail to effectively manage our international growth, then our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock could be adversely affected. acquired properties may be located in new markets, where we may face risks associated with investing in an unfamiliar market. we have acquired and may continue to acquire properties in international markets that are new to us. when we acquire properties located in these markets, we may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local economy, forging new business relationships in the area and unfamiliarity with local government and permitting procedures. we work to mitigate such risks through extensive diligence and research and associations with experienced partners; however, there can be no guarantee that all such risks will be eliminated. we are subject to risks from potential fluctuations in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and the currencies of the other countries in which we invest. we are pursuing, and intend to continue to pursue, growth opportunities in international markets. as we invest in countries where the u.s. dollar is not the national currency, we are subject to international currency risks from the potential fluctuations in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and the currencies of those other countries. a significant depreciation in the value of the currency of one or more countries where we have a significant investment may materially affect our results of operations. we attempt to mitigate any such effects by borrowing under our multi-currency credit facility in the currency of the country in which we are investing and, under certain circumstances, by putting in place international currency put option contracts to hedge exchange rate fluctuations. for leases denominated in international currencies, we may use derivative financial instruments to manage the international currency exchange risk. we cannot assure you, however, that our efforts will successfully neutralize all international currency risks. if we do engage in international currency exchange rate hedging activities, any income recognized with respect to these hedges may not qualify under the 75% or the 95% gross income tests that we must satisfy annually in order to qualify and maintain our status as a real estate investment trust. general business risks our performance and value are impacted by the local economic conditions of and the risks associated with doing business in california. as of december 31, 2007, our industrial properties located in california represented 23.6% of the aggregate square footage of our industrial operating properties and 22.7% of our industrial annualized base rent, on an owned and managed basis. our revenue from, and the value of, our properties located in california may be affected by local real estate conditions (such as an oversupply of or reduced demand for industrial properties) and the local economic climate. business layoffs, downsizing, industry slowdowns, changing demographics and other factors may adversely impact california economic climate. because of the number of properties we have located in california, a downturn in california economy or real estate conditions could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock. we may experience losses that our insurance does not cover. we carry commercial liability, property and rental loss insurance covering all the properties that we own and manage in types and amounts that we believe are adequate and appropriate given the relative risks applicable to the property, the cost of coverage and industry practice. certain losses, such as those due to terrorism, windstorms, floods or seismic activity, may be insured subject to certain limitations, including large deductibles or co-payments and policy limits. although we have obtained coverage for certain acts of terrorism, with policy specifications and insured limits that we consider commercially reasonable given the cost and availability of such coverage, we cannot 11 table of contents be certain that we will be able to renew coverage on comparable terms or collect under such policies. in addition, there are other types of losses, such as those from riots, bio-terrorism or acts of war, that are not generally insured in our industry because it is not economically feasible to do so. we may incur material losses in excess of insurance proceeds and we may not be able to continue to obtain insurance at commercially reasonable rates. if we experience a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds our insured limits with respect to one or more of our properties, then we could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties, as well as the anticipated future revenue from those properties and, if there is recourse debt, then we would remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the properties. moreover, as the general partner of the operating partnership, we generally will be liable for all of the operating partnership unsatisfied recourse obligations, including any obligations incurred by the operating partnership as the general partner of co-investment ventures. any such losses could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock. a number of our properties are located in areas that are known to be subject to earthquake activity. u.s. properties located in active seismic areas include properties in the san francisco bay area, los angeles, and seattle. our largest concentration of such properties is in california where, on an owned and managed basis, as of december 31, 2007, we had 282 industrial buildings, aggregating approximately 27.9 million square feet and representing 23.6% of our industrial operating properties based on aggregate square footage and 22.7% based on industrial annualized base rent, on an owned and managed basis. international properties located in active seismic areas include tokyo and osaka, japan and mexico city, mexico. we carry earthquake insurance on all of our properties located in areas historically subject to seismic activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles that we believe are commercially reasonable. we evaluate our earthquake insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants. a number of our properties are located in areas that are known to be subject to hurricane and/or flood risk. we carry hurricane and flood hazard insurance on all of our properties located in areas historically subject to such activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles that we believe are commercially reasonable. we evaluate our insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants. we are subject to risks and liabilities in connection with properties owned through co-investment ventures, limited liability companies, partnerships and other investments. as of december 31, 2007, we owned approximately 83.4 million square feet of our properties through several co-investment ventures, limited liability companies or partnerships with third parties. our organizational documents do not limit the amount of available funds that we may invest in partnerships, limited liability companies or co-investment ventures and we intend to continue to develop and acquire properties through co-investment ventures, limited liability companies, partnerships with and investments in other entities when warranted by the circumstances. such partners may share certain approval rights over major decisions and some partners may manage the properties in the co-investment venture partnership, limited liability company or co-investment venture investments. partnership, limited liability company or co-investment venture investments involve certain risks, including: if our partners, co-members or co-investment venturers go bankrupt, then we and any other remaining general partners, members or co-investment venturers would generally remain liable for the partnership s, limited liability company or co-investment venture liabilities; if our partners fail to fund their share of any required capital contributions, then we may be required to contribute such capital; our partners, co-members or co-investment venturers might have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals that would affect our ability to operate the property; 12 table of contents our partners, co-members or co-investment venturers may have the power to act contrary to our instructions, requests, policies or objectives, including our current policy with respect to maintaining our qualification as a real estate investment trust; the co-investment venture, limited liability and partnership agreements often restrict the transfer of a co-investment venture s, member or partner interest or may otherwise restrict our ability to sell the interest when we desire or on advantageous terms; our relationships with our partners, co-members or co-investment venturers are generally contractual in nature and may be terminated or dissolved under the terms of the agreements, and in such event, we may not continue to own or operate the interests or assets underlying such relationship or may need to purchase such interests or assets at an above-market price to continue ownership; disputes between us and our partners, co-members or co-investment venturers may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and directors from focusing their time and effort on our business and result in subjecting the properties owned by the applicable partnership, limited liability company, or co-investment venture to additional risk; and we may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of our partners, co-members or co-investment venturers. we generally seek to maintain sufficient control or influence over our partnerships, limited liability companies and co-investment ventures to permit us to achieve our business objectives, however, we may not be able to do so, and the occurrence of one or more of the events described above could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock. we may be unable to complete divestitures on advantageous terms or contribute properties. we intend to continue to divest ourselves of properties that do not meet our strategic objectives, provided that we can negotiate acceptable terms and conditions. our ability to dispose of properties on advantageous terms depends on factors beyond our control, including competition from other sellers and the availability of attractive financing for potential buyers of our properties. if we are unable to dispose of properties on favorable terms or redeploy the proceeds of property divestitures in accordance with our investment strategy, then our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock could be adversely affected. we also anticipate contributing or selling properties to our co-investment ventures. if the co-investment ventures are unable to raise additional capital on favorable terms after currently available capital is depleted or if the value of such properties are appraised at less than the cost of such properties, then such contributions or sales could be delayed or prevented, adversely affecting our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock. for example, although we have acquired land for development and made capital commitments in japan and mexico, we cannot be assured that we ultimately will be able to contribute such properties to our co-investment ventures as we have planned. we may not be successful in contributing properties to our co-investment ventures or disposing of properties to third parties. we regularly contribute properties that we acquire or develop to our co-investment ventures, or sell these properties to third parties, and we intend to continue to contribute and sell properties as opportunities arise and build our private capital business. our ability to contribute or sell properties on advantageous terms is affected by competition from other owners of properties that are trying to dispose of their properties, current market conditions, including the capitalization rates applicable to our properties, and other factors beyond our control. our ability to develop and timely lease properties will impact our ability to contribute or sell these properties. continued access to debt and equity capital, in the private and public markets, by our co-investment ventures is necessary in order for us to continue our strategy of contributing properties to these funds. should we not have sufficient properties available that meet the investment criteria of current or future co-investment ventures, or should the co-investment ventures have limited or no access to capital on favorable terms, then these contributions could be delayed resulting in 13 table of contents adverse effects on our liquidity and on our ability to meet projected earnings levels in a particular reporting period. failure to meet our projected earnings levels in a particular reporting period could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, distributable cash flow and on the value of our securities. further, our inability to redeploy the proceeds from our divestitures in accordance with our investment strategy could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, distributable cash flow, our ability to meet our debt obligations in a timely manner and the value of our securities in subsequent periods. contingent or unknown liabilities could adversely affect our financial condition. we have acquired and may in the future acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities. as a result, if a liability were asserted against us based upon ownership of any of these entities or properties, then we might have to pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely affect our cash flow. contingent or unknown liabilities with respect to entities or properties acquired might include: liabilities for environmental conditions; accrued but unpaid liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; tax liabilities; and claims for indemnification by the general partners, officers and directors and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties. we are dependent on external sources of capital. in order to qualify as a real estate investment trust, we are required each year to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our real estate investment trust taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends-paid deduction and by excluding any net capital gain) and are subject to tax to the extent our income is not fully distributed. consequently, we may not be able to fund all future capital needs, including acquisition and development activities, from cash retained from operations and may have to rely on third-party sources of capital. further, in order to maintain our real estate investment trust status and avoid the payment of income and excise taxes, we may need to borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the real estate investment trust distribution requirements even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings. these short-term borrowing needs could result from differences in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for federal income tax purposes, or the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt or amortization payments. our ability to access private debt and equity capital on favorable terms or at all is dependent upon a number of factors, including general market conditions, the market perception of our growth potential, our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions and the market price of our capital stock. debt financing risks we could incur more debt, increasing our debt service. it is generally our policy to incur debt, either directly or through our subsidiaries, only if it will not cause our share of total debt-to-our share of total market capitalization ratio to exceed approximately 45% over the long term. our definition of our share of total market capitalization is our share of total debt plus preferred equity liquidation preferences plus market equity. see footnote 1 to the capitalization ratios table contained in part ii, item 7: management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation liquidity and capital resources for our definitions of market equity and our share of total debt. the aggregate amount of indebtedness that we may incur under our policy increases directly with an increase in the market price per share of our capital stock. further, our management could alter or eliminate this policy without stockholder approval. if we change this policy, then we could become more highly leveraged, resulting in an increase in debt service that could adversely affect the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. 14 table of contents we face risks associated with the use of debt to fund acquisitions and developments, including refinancing and interest rate risk. as of december 31, 2007, we had total debt outstanding of $3.5 billion. we guarantee the operating partnership obligations with respect to the senior debt securities referenced in our financial statements. we are subject to risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest. we anticipate that we will repay only a small portion of the principal of our debt prior to maturity. accordingly, we will likely need to refinance at least a portion of our outstanding debt as it matures. there is a risk that we may not be able to refinance existing debt or that the terms of any refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of our existing debt. if we are unable to refinance or extend principal payments due at maturity or pay them with proceeds of other capital transactions, then we expect that our cash flow will not be sufficient in all years to repay all such maturing debt and to pay dividends to our stockholders. furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing (such as the reluctance of lenders to make commercial real estate loans) result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. higher interest rates on newly incurred debt may negatively impact us as well. if interest rates increase, our interest costs and overall costs of capital will increase, which could adversely affect our transaction and development activity, financial condition, results of operation, cash flow, the market price of our stock, our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. in addition, if we mortgage one or more of our properties to secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet mortgage payments, then the property could be foreclosed upon or transferred to the mortgagee with a consequent loss of income and asset value. a foreclosure on one or more of our properties could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock. as of december 31, 2007, we had outstanding guarantees in the amount of $95.9 million in connection with certain acquisitions. as of december 31, 2007, we also guaranteed $41.2 million and $107.9 million on outstanding loans on five of our consolidated co-investment ventures and two of our unconsolidated co-investment ventures, respectively. also, we have entered into contribution agreements with certain of our unconsolidated co-investment venture funds. these contribution agreements require us to make additional capital contributions to the applicable co-investment venture fund upon certain defaults by the co-investment venture of its debt obligations to the lenders. such additional capital contributions will cover all or part of the applicable co-investment venture debt obligation and may be greater than our share of the co-investment venture debt obligation or the value of our share of any property securing such debt. our contribution obligations under these agreements will be reduced by the amounts recovered by the lender and the fair market value of the property, if any, used to secure the debt and obtained by the lender upon default. our potential obligations under these contribution agreements were $160.2 million as of december 31, 2007. we intend to continue to guarantee debt of our unconsolidated co-investment venture funds and make additional contributions to our unconsolidated co-investment venture funds in connection with property contributions to the funds. such payment obligations under such guarantees and contribution obligations under such contribution agreements, if required to be paid, could be of a magnitude that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock. adverse changes in our credit ratings could negatively affect our financing activity. the credit ratings of our senior unsecured long-term debt and preferred stock are based on our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position and other factors employed by the credit rating agencies in their rating analyses of us. our credit ratings can affect the amount of capital we can access, as well as the terms of any financings we may obtain. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings, and in the event our current credit ratings are downgraded, we would likely incur higher borrowing costs and may encounter difficulty in obtaining additional financing. also, a downgrade in our credit ratings may trigger additional payments or other negative consequences under our current and future credit facilities and debt instruments. since we depend on debt financing to fund our acquisition and development activity, adverse changes in our credit ratings could negatively impact our development and acquisition activity, future growth, financial condition, and the market price of our stock. 15 table of contents covenants in our debt agreements could adversely affect our financial condition. the terms of our credit agreements and other indebtedness require that we comply with a number of financial and other covenants, such as maintaining debt service coverage and leverage ratios and maintaining insurance coverage. these covenants may limit flexibility in our operations, and our failure to comply with these covenants could cause a default under the applicable debt agreement even if we have satisfied our payment obligations. as of december 31, 2007, we had certain non-recourse, secured loans, which are cross-collateralized by multiple properties. if we default on any of these loans, we may then be required to repay such indebtedness, together with applicable prepayment charges, to avoid foreclosure on all the cross-collateralized properties within the applicable pool. foreclosure on our properties, or our inability to refinance our loans on favorable terms, could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock. in addition, our credit facilities and senior debt securities contain certain cross-default provisions, which are triggered in the event that our other material indebtedness is in default. these cross-default provisions may require us to repay or restructure the credit facilities and the senior debt securities in addition to any mortgage or other debt that is in default, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock. failure to hedge effectively against interest rates may adversely affect results of operations. we seek to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements, such as interest rate cap agreements and interest rate swap agreements. these agreements involve risks, such as the risk that the counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes and that a court could rule that such agreements are not legally enforceable. hedging may reduce overall returns on our investments. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may materially adversely affect our results of operations. conflicts of interest risks some of our directors and executive officers are involved in other real estate activities and investments and, therefore, may have conflicts of interest with us. from time to time, certain of our executive officers and directors may own interests in other real-estate related businesses and investments, including de minimis holdings of the equity securities of public and private real estate companies. our executive officers involvement in other real estate-related activities could divert their attention from our day-to-day operations. our executive officers have entered into non-competition agreements with us pursuant to which they have agreed not to engage in any activities, directly or indirectly, in respect of commercial real estate, and not to make any investment in respect of any industrial or retail real estate, other than through ownership of not more than 5% of the outstanding shares of a public company engaged in such activities or through certain specified investments. state law may limit our ability to enforce these agreements. we will not acquire any properties from our executive officers, directors or their affiliates unless the transaction is approved by a majority of the disinterested and independent (as defined by the rules of the new york stock exchange) members of our board of directors with respect to that transaction. our role as general partner of the operating partnership may conflict with the interests of our stockholders. as the general partner of the operating partnership, we have fiduciary obligations to the operating partnership limited partners, the discharge of which may conflict with the interests of our stockholders. in addition, those persons holding limited partnership units will have the right to vote as a class on certain amendments to the operating partnership partnership agreement and individually to approve certain amendments that would adversely affect their rights. the limited partners may exercise these voting rights in a manner that conflicts with the interests of our stockholders. in addition, under the terms of the operating partnership partnership agreement, holders of limited partnership units will have certain approval rights with respect to certain transactions that affect all stockholders but which they may not exercise in a manner that reflects the interests of all stockholders. 16 table of contents risks associated with government regulations the costs of compliance with environmental laws and regulations and any related potential liability could exceed our budgets for these items. under various environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be liable for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products at, on, under or in its property. the costs of removal or remediation of such substances could be substantial. these laws typically impose liability and clean-up responsibility without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. even if more than one person may have been responsible for the contamination, each person covered by the environmental laws may be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs incurred. in addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages based on personal injury, property damage or other costs, including investigation and clean-up costs, resulting from the environmental contamination. environmental laws in some countries, including the united states, also require that owners or operators of buildings containing asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos, adequately inform or train those who may come into contact with asbestos and undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, in the event that asbestos is disturbed during building renovation or demolition. these laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos. some of our properties may contain asbestos-containing building materials. in addition, some of our properties are leased or have been leased, in part, to owners and operators of businesses that use, store or otherwise handle petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, creating a potential for the release of such hazardous or toxic substances. further, certain of our properties are on, adjacent to or near other properties that have contained or currently contain petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, or upon which others have engaged, are engaged or may engage in activities that may release such hazardous or toxic substances. from time to time, we may acquire properties, or interests in properties, with known adverse environmental conditions where we believe that the environmental liabilities associated with these conditions are quantifiable and that the acquisition will yield a superior risk-adjusted return. in such an instance, we underwrite the costs of environmental investigation, clean-up and monitoring into the acquisition cost and obtain appropriate environmental insurance for the property. further, in connection with certain divested properties, we have agreed to remain responsible for, and to bear the cost of, remediating or monitoring certain environmental conditions on the properties. at the time of acquisition, we subject all of our properties to a phase i or similar environmental assessments by independent environmental consultants and we may have additional phase ii testing performed upon the consultant recommendation. these environmental assessments have not revealed, and we are not aware of, any environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations taken as a whole. nonetheless, it is possible that the assessments did not reveal all environmental liabilities and that there are material environmental liabilities unknown to us, or that known environmental conditions may give rise to liabilities that are greater than we anticipated. further, our properties current environmental condition may be affected by customers, the condition of land, operations in the vicinity of the properties (such as releases from underground storage tanks) or by unrelated third parties. if the costs of compliance with existing or future environmental laws and regulations exceed our budgets for these items, then our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock could be adversely affected. compliance or failure to comply with the americans with disabilities act and other similar regulations could result in substantial costs. under the americans with disabilities act, places of public accommodation must meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the award of damages to private litigants. if we are required to make unanticipated expenditures to comply with the americans with disabilities act, including removing access barriers, then our cash 17 table of contents flow and the amounts available for dividends to our stockholders may be adversely affected. our properties are also subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life-safety requirements. we could incur fines or private damage awards if we fail to comply with these requirements. while we believe that our properties are currently in material compliance with these regulatory requirements, the requirements may change or new requirements may be imposed that could require significant unanticipated expenditures by us that will affect our cash flow and results of operations. federal income tax risks our failure to qualify as a real estate investment trust would have serious adverse consequences to our stockholders. we elected to be taxed as a real estate investment trust under sections 856 through 860 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the internal revenue code ) commencing with our taxable year ended december 31, 1997. we currently intend to operate so as to qualify as a real estate investment trust under the internal revenue code and believe that our current organization and method of operation comply with the rules and regulations promulgated under the internal revenue code to enable us to continue to qualify as a real estate investment trust. however, it is possible that we have been organized or have operated in a manner that would not allow us to qualify as a real estate investment trust, or that our future operations could cause us to fail to qualify. qualification as a real estate investment trust requires us to satisfy numerous requirements (some on an annual and others on a quarterly basis) established under highly technical and complex sections of the internal revenue code for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations, and involves the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. for example, in order to qualify as a real estate investment trust, we must derive at least 95% of our gross income in any year from qualifying sources. in addition, we must pay dividends to our stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our real estate investment trust taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding capital gains) and must satisfy specified asset tests on a quarterly basis. these provisions and the applicable treasury regulations are more complicated in our case because we hold our assets through the operating partnership. legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly change the tax laws with respect to qualification as a real estate investment trust or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification. however, we are not aware of any pending tax legislation that would adversely affect our ability to qualify as a real estate investment trust. if we fail to qualify as a real estate investment trust in any taxable year, we will be required to pay federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. unless we are entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from treatment as a real estate investment trust for the four taxable years following the year in which we lost our qualification. if we lost our real estate investment trust status, our net earnings available for investment or distribution to stockholders would be significantly reduced for each of the years involved. in addition, we would no longer be required to make distributions to our stockholders. certain property transfers may generate prohibited transaction income, resulting in a penalty tax on gain attributable to the transaction. from time to time, we may transfer or otherwise dispose of some of our properties, including by contributing properties to our co-investment venture funds. under the internal revenue code, any gain resulting from transfers of properties we hold as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is treated as income from a prohibited transaction subject to a 100% penalty tax. we do not believe that our transfers or disposals of property or our contributions of properties into our co-investment venture funds are properly treated as prohibited transactions. however, whether property is held for investment purposes is a question of fact that depends on all the facts and circumstances surrounding the particular transaction. the internal revenue service may contend that certain transfers or dispositions of properties by us or contributions of properties into our co-investment venture funds are prohibited transactions. while we believe that the internal revenue service would not prevail in any such dispute, if the internal revenue service were to argue successfully that a transfer, disposition, or contribution of property constituted a prohibited transaction, we would be required to pay a 100% penalty tax on any gain allocable 18 table of contents to us from the prohibited transaction. in addition, income from a prohibited transaction might adversely affect our ability to satisfy the income tests for qualification as a real estate investment trust. risks associated with our dependence on key personnel we depend on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. from time to time, our personnel and their roles may change. while we believe that we could find suitable employees to meet our personnel needs, the loss of key personnel, any change in their roles, or the limitation of their availability could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock. we do not have employment agreements with any of our executive officers. because our compensation packages include equity-based incentives, pressure on our stock price or limitations on our ability to award such incentives could affect our ability to offer competitive compensation packages to our executives and key employees. if we are unable to continue to attract and retain our executive officers, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain key employees become more expensive, our performance and competitive position could be materially adversely affected. risks associated with our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting our business could be adversely impacted if we have deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting. the design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors, misstatements or misrepresentations. while management will continue to review the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, there can be no guarantee that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. deficiencies, including any material weakness, in our internal control over financial reporting which may occur in the future could result in misstatements of our results of operations, restatements of our financial statements, a decline in our stock price, or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. risks associated with ownership of our stock limitations in our charter and bylaws could prevent a change in control. certain provisions of our charter and bylaws may delay, defer or prevent a change in control or other transaction that could provide the holders of our common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for the common stock. to maintain our qualification as a real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding stock may be owned, actually or constructively, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the internal revenue code to include certain entities) during the last half of a taxable year after the first taxable year for which a real estate investment trust election is made. furthermore, our common stock must be held by a minimum of 100 persons for at least 335 days of a 12-month taxable year (or a proportionate part of a short tax year). in addition, if we, or an owner of 10% or more of our stock, actually or constructively owns 10% or more of one of our customers (or a customer of any partnership in which we are a partner), then the rent received by us (either directly or through any such partnership) from that customer will not be qualifying income for purposes of the real estate investment trust gross income tests of the internal revenue code. to help us maintain our qualification as a real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes, we prohibit the ownership, actually or by virtue of the constructive ownership provisions of the internal revenue code, by any single person, of more than 9.8% (by value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the issued and outstanding shares of each of our common stock, series l preferred stock, series m preferred stock, series o preferred stock, and series p preferred stock (unless such limitations are waived by our board of directors). we also prohibit the ownership, actually or constructively, of any shares of our series d preferred stock by any single person so that no such person, taking into account all of our stock so owned by such person, including any common stock or other series of preferred stock, may own in excess of 9.8% of our issued and outstanding capital stock (unless such limitations are waived by our board of directors). we refer to this limitation as 19 table of contents the ownership limit. the charter provides that shares acquired or held in violation of the ownership limit will be transferred to a trust for the benefit of a designated charitable beneficiary. the charter further provides that any person who acquires shares in violation of the ownership limit will not be entitled to any dividends on the shares or be entitled to vote the shares or receive any proceeds from the subsequent sale of the shares in excess of the lesser of the price paid for the shares or the amount realized from the sale. a transfer of shares in violation of the above limits may be void under certain circumstances. the ownership limit may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control and, therefore, could adversely affect our stockholders ability to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for the shares of our common stock in connection with such transaction. our charter authorizes us to issue additional shares of common and preferred stock and to establish the preferences, rights and other terms of any series or class of preferred stock that we issue. although our board of directors has no intention to do so at the present time, it could establish a series or class of preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction, including a change in control, that might involve a premium price for the common stock or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. our charter and bylaws and maryland law also contain other provisions that may impede various actions by stockholders without approval of our board of directors, which in turn may delay, defer or prevent a transaction, including a change in control. those provisions in our charter and bylaws include: directors may be removed only for cause and only upon a two-thirds vote of stockholders; our board can fix the number of directors within set limits (which limits are subject to change by our board), and fill vacant directorships upon the vote of a majority of the remaining directors, even though less than a quorum, or in the case of a vacancy resulting from an increase in the size of the board, a majority of the entire board; stockholders must give advance notice to nominate directors or propose business for consideration at a stockholders meeting; and the request of the holders of 50% or more of our common stock is necessary for stockholders to call a special meeting. those provisions provided for under maryland law include: a two-thirds vote of stockholders is required to amend our charter; and stockholders may only act by written consent with the unanimous approval of all stockholders entitled to vote on the matter in question. in addition, our board could elect to adopt, without stockholder approval, certain other provisions under maryland law that may impede a change in control. the price per share of our stock may fluctuate significantly. the market price per share of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to many factors, including: actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results or dividends; changes in our funds from operations or earnings estimates; publication of research reports about us or the real estate industry; the general reputation of real estate investment trusts and the attractiveness of their equity securities in comparison to other equity securities (including securities issued by other real estate-based companies); general stock and bond market conditions, including changes in interest rates on fixed income securities, that may lead prospective purchasers of our stock to demand a higher annual yield from future dividends; a change in analyst ratings or our credit ratings; changes in market valuations of similar companies; 20 table of contents adverse market reaction to any additional debt we incur in the future; additions or departures of key management personnel; actions by institutional stockholders; speculation in the press or investment community; terrorist activity may adversely affect the markets in which our securities trade, possibly increasing market volatility and causing the further erosion of business and consumer confidence and spending; governmental regulatory action and changes in tax laws; the realization of any of the other risk factors included or incorporated by reference in this report; and general market and economic conditions. many of the factors listed above are beyond our control. these factors may cause the market price of shares of our common stock to decline, regardless of our financial condition, results of operations, business or our prospects. if we issue additional securities, then the investment of existing stockholders will be diluted. as a real estate investment trust, we are dependent on external sources of capital and may issue common or preferred stock or debt securities to fund our future capital needs. we have authority to issue shares of common stock or other equity or debt securities, and to cause the operating partnership or amb property ii, l.p., to issue limited partnership units, in exchange for property or otherwise. existing stockholders have no preemptive right to acquire any additional securities issued by the operating partnership, amb property ii, l.p., or us and any issuance of additional equity securities may adversely effect the market price of our stock and could result in dilution of an existing stockholder investment. earnings, cash dividends, asset value and market interest rates affect the price of our stock. as a real estate investment trust, the market value of our equity securities, in general, is based primarily upon the market perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash dividends. our equity securities market value is based secondarily upon the market value of our underlying real estate assets. for this reason, shares of our stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than our net asset value per share. to the extent that we retain operating cash flow for investment purposes, working capital reserves, or other purposes, these retained funds, while increasing the value of our underlying assets, may not correspondingly increase the market price of our stock. our failure to meet the market expectations with regard to future earnings and cash dividends likely would adversely affect the market price of our stock. further, the distribution yield on the stock (as a percentage of the price of the stock) relative to market interest rates may also influence the price of our stock. an increase in market interest rates might lead prospective purchasers of our stock to expect a higher distribution yield, which would adversely affect our stock market price. additionally, if the market price of our stock declines significantly, then we might breach certain covenants with respect to our debt obligations, which could adversely affect our liquidity and ability to make future acquisitions and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. we could change our investment and financing policies without a vote of stockholders. subject to our current investment policy to maintain our qualification as a real estate investment trust (unless a change is approved by our board of directors under certain circumstances), our board of directors determines our investment and financing policies, our growth strategy and our debt, capitalization, distribution and operating policies. our board of directors may revise or amend these strategies and policies at any time without a vote of stockholders. any such changes may not serve the interests of all stockholders and could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations, including our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. shares available for future sale could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. the operating partnership and amb property ii, l.p. had 3,992,607 common limited partnership units issued and outstanding as of december 31, 2007, which may be exchanged generally one year after their issuance on a 21 table of contents one-for-one basis into shares of our common stock. in the future, the operating partnership or amb property ii, l.p. may issue additional limited partnership units, and we may issue shares of common stock, in connection with the acquisition of properties or in private placements. these shares of common stock and the shares of common stock issuable upon exchange of limited partnership units may be sold in the public securities markets over time, pursuant to registration rights that we have granted, or may grant in connection with future issuances, or pursuant to rule 144. in addition, common stock issued under our stock option and incentive plans may also be sold in the market pursuant to registration statements that we have filed or pursuant to rule 144. as of december 31, 2007, under our stock option and incentive plans, we had 9,443,727 shares of common stock reserved and available for future issuance, had outstanding options to purchase 5,855,777 shares of common stock (of which 4,660,584 are vested and exercisable) and had 652,838 unvested restricted shares of common stock outstanding. future sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the market or the perception that such sales might occur could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. further, the existence of the operating partnership limited partnership units and the shares of our common stock reserved for issuance upon exchange of limited partnership units and the exercise of options, and registration rights referred to above, may adversely affect the terms upon which we are able to obtain additional capital through the sale of equity securities. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the risk of loss from adverse changes in market prices, interest rates and international exchange rates. our future earnings and cash flows are dependent upon prevailing market rates. accordingly, we manage our market risk by matching projected cash inflows from operating, investing and financing activities with projected cash outflows for debt service, acquisitions, capital expenditures, distributions to stockholders and unitholders, and other cash requirements. the majority of our outstanding debt has fixed interest rates, which minimize the risk of fluctuating interest rates. our exposure to market risk includes interest rate fluctuations in connection with our credit facilities and other variable rate borrowings and our ability to incur more debt without stockholder approval, thereby increasing our debt service obligations, which could adversely affect our cash flows. as of december 31, 2007, we had one outstanding interest rate swap with a notional amount of $25.0 million (in u.s. dollars). see financial instruments below. the table below summarizes the maturities and interest rates associated with our fixed and variable rate debt outstanding before net unamortized debt discounts of $5.2 million as of december 31, 2007 (dollars in thousands): 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 thereafter total fixed rate debt(1) $ 255,780 $ 185,957 $ 418,873 $ 248,484 $ 449,570 $ 576,675 $ 2,135,339 average interest rate 6.9 % 5.0 % 6.5 % 6.7 % 5.9 % 10.8 % 7.5 % variable rate debt(2) $ 231,587 $ 63,386 $ 659,562 $ 234,242 $ 74,387 $ 101,495 $ 1,364,659 average interest rate 2.1 % 5.9 % 3.4 % 3.6 % 5.6 % 9.8 % 3.9 % interest payments $ 22,582 $ 12,913 $ 49,868 $ 25,131 $ 30,675 $ 72,238 $ 213,407 (1) represents 61.0% of all outstanding debt at december 31, 2007. (2) represents 39.0% of all outstanding debt at december 31, 2007. if market rates of interest on our variable rate debt increased or decreased by 10%, then the increase or decrease in interest cost on the variable rate debt would be $5.0 million (net of the swap) annually. as of december 31, 2007, the book value and the estimated fair value of our total consolidated debt (both secured and unsecured) was $3.5 billion and $3.6 billion, respectively, based on our estimate of current market interest rates. as of december 31, 2007 and 2006, variable rate debt comprised 39.0% and 37.1%, respectively, of all our outstanding debt. variable rate debt was $1.4 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively, as of december 31, 2007 and 2006. the increase is primarily due to higher outstanding balances on our credit facilities. this increase in our outstanding variable rate debt increases our risk associated with unfavorable interest rate fluctuations. financial instruments. we record all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value as an asset or liability, with an offset to accumulated other comprehensive income or income. for revenues or expenses denominated in non-functional currencies, we may use derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk. our derivative financial instrument in effect at december 31, 2007 was one interest rate swap hedging cash flows of variable rate borrowings based on u.s. libor (usd). the following table summarizes our financial instruments as of december 31, 2007 (in thousands): maturity dates june 9, notional related derivatives (in thousands) 2010 amount fair value notional amount (u.s. dollars) $ 25,000 $ 25,000 receive floating(%) us libor pay fixed rate(%) 5.17 % fair market value $ (786 ) $ (786 ) total $ 25,000 $ (786 ) international operations. our exposure to market risk also includes foreign currency exchange rate risk. the u.s. dollar is the functional currency for our subsidiaries operating in the united states and mexico. the functional currency for our subsidiaries operating outside the united states, other than mexico, is generally the local currency 69 table of contents of the country in which the entity or property is located, mitigating the effect of foreign exchange gains and losses. our subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the u.s. dollar translate their financial statements into u.s. dollars. assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rate in effect as of the financial statement date. we translate income statement accounts using the average exchange rate for the period and significant nonrecurring transactions using the rate on the transaction date. the gains resulting from the translation are included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as a separate component of stockholders equity and totaled $14.8 million for the year ended december 31, 2007. our international subsidiaries may have transactions denominated in currencies other than their functional currency. in these instances, non-monetary assets and liabilities are reflected at the historical exchange rate, monetary assets and liabilities are remeasured at the exchange rate in effect at the end of the period and income statement accounts are remeasured at the average exchange rate for the period. we also record gains or losses in the income statement when a transaction with a third party, denominated in a currency other than the entity functional currency, is settled and the functional currency cash flows realized are more or less than expected based upon the exchange rate in effect when the transaction was initiated. for the year ended december 31, 2007, unrealized and realized gains from remeasurement and translation included in our results of operations were $3.9 million.risk factors business risks our operations involve various risks that could have adverse consequences to us. these risks include, among others: risks of the current economic environment if the global market and economic crisis intensifies or continues in the long term, disruptions in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. recent global market and economic conditions have been unprecedented and challenging with tighter credit conditions, slower growth through the fourth quarter of 2008 and recession in most major economies continuing into 2009. continued concerns about the systemic impact of inflation, the availability and cost of credit, declining real estate market, energy costs and geopolitical issues have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for the global economy. in the fourth quarter of 2008, added concerns fueled by the failure of several large financial institutions and government interventions in the credit markets led to increased market uncertainty and instability in the capital and credit markets. these conditions, combined with declining business activity levels and consumer confidence, increased unemployment and volatile oil prices, have contributed to unprecedented levels of volatility in the capital markets. if the global market and economic crisis intensifies or continues in the long term, disruptions in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. as a result of these market conditions, the cost and availability of credit have been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide funding to businesses and consumers. these factors have led to a decrease in spending by businesses and consumers alike, and a corresponding decrease in global infrastructure spending. while we currently believe that we have sufficient working capital and capacity under our credit facilities in the near term, continued turbulence in the global markets and economies and prolonged declines in business and consumer spending may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, as well as the liquidity and financial condition of our customers. if these market conditions persist in the long term, they may limit our ability, and the ability of our customers, to timely replace maturing liabilities, and access the credit markets to meet liquidity needs. if the long-term debt ratings of the operating partnership fall below our current levels, the borrowing cost of debt under our unsecured credit facilities and certain term loans may increase. in addition, if the long-term debt ratings of the operating partnership fall below investment grade, we may be unable to request borrowings in currencies other than u.s. dollars or japanese yen, as applicable; however, the lack of other currency borrowings does not affect our ability to fully draw down under the credit facilities or term loans. while we currently do not expect our long-term debt ratings to fall below investment grade, in the event that our ratings do fall below those levels, we may be unable to exercise our options to extend the term of our credit facilities or our $230 million secured term loan credit agreement, and the loss of our ability to borrow in foreign currencies could affect our ability to optimally hedge our borrowings against foreign currency exchange rate changes. in addition, while based on publicly available information regarding our lenders, we currently do not expect to lose borrowing capacity under our existing lines of credit and term loans as a result of a dissolution, bankruptcy, consolidation, merger or other business combination among our lenders, we cannot assure you that continuing long-term disruptions in the global economy and the continuation of tighter credit conditions among, and potential failures of, third-party financial institutions as a result of such disruptions will not have an adverse effect on our borrowing capacity and liquidity position. our access to funds under our credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the lenders that are parties to such facilities to meet their funding commitments to us. we can not assure you that if one of our lenders fails (some of whom are lenders under a number of our facilities), we will be successful in finding a replacement lender and, as a result, our borrowing capacity under the applicable facilities may be permanently reduced. if we do not have sufficient cash flows and income from our operations to meet our financial commitments and those lenders 9 table of contents are not able to meet their funding commitments to us, our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. certain of our third-party indebtedness is held by our consolidated or unconsolidated joint ventures. in the event that our joint venture partner is unable to meet its obligations under our joint venture agreements or the third-party debt agreements, we may elect to pay our joint venture partner portion of debt to avoid foreclosure on the mortgaged property or permit the lender to foreclose on the mortgaged property to meet the joint venture debt obligations. in either case, we could face a loss of income and asset value on the property. until the financial and real estate markets stabilize, we have limited our capital deployment activities to situations where we are fulfilling prior commitments. there can be no assurance that the markets will stabilize in the near future or that we will choose to or be able to increase our levels of capital deployment at such time or ever. in addition, a continued increase in the cost of credit and inability to access the capital and credit markets may adversely impact the occupancy of our properties, the disposition of our properties, private capital raising and contribution of properties to our co-investment ventures. for example, an inability to fully lease our properties may result in such properties not meeting our investment criteria for contributions to our co-investment ventures. if we are unable to contribute completed development properties to our co-investment ventures or sell our completed development projects to third parties, we will not be able to recognize gains from the contribution or sale of such properties and, as a result, our net income available to our common stockholders and our funds from operations will decrease. additionally, business layoffs, downsizing, industry slowdowns and other similar factors that affect our customers may adversely impact our business and financial condition. furthermore, general uncertainty in the real estate markets has resulted in conditions where the pricing of certain real estate assets may be difficult due to uncertainty with respect to capitalization rates and valuations, among other things, which may add to the difficulty of buyers or our co-investment ventures to obtain financing on favorable terms to acquire such properties or cause potential buyers to not complete acquisitions of such properties. the market uncertainty with respect to capitalization rates and real estate valuations also adversely impacts our net asset value. in addition, we may face difficulty in refinancing our mortgage debt, or may be unable to refinance such debt at all, if our property values significantly decline. such a decline may also cause a default under the loan-to-value covenants in some of our joint ventures mortgage debt, which may require our joint ventures to re-margin or pay down a portion of the applicable debt. there can be no assurance, however, that in such an event, we will be able to do so to prevent foreclosure. in the event that we do not have sufficient cash available to us through our operations to continue operating our business as usual, we may need to find alternative ways to increase our liquidity. such alternatives may include, without limitation, divesting ourselves of properties, whether or not they otherwise meet our strategic objectives to keep in the long term, at less than optimal terms; issuing and selling our debt and equity in public or private transactions under less than optimal conditions; entering into leases with our customers at lower rental rates or less than optimal terms; or entering into lease renewals with our existing customers without an increase in rental rates at turnover. there can be no assurance, however, that such alternative ways to increase our liquidity will be available to us. additionally, taking such measures to increase our liquidity may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. as of december 31, 2008, we had $223.9 million in cash and cash equivalents. our available cash and cash equivalents are held in accounts managed by third-party financial institutions and consist of invested cash and cash in our operating accounts. the invested cash is invested in money market funds that invest solely in direct obligations of the government of the united states or in time deposits with certain financial institutions. to date, we have experienced no loss or lack of access to our invested cash or cash equivalents; however, we can provide no assurances that access to our invested cash and cash equivalents will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. at any point in time, we also have a significant amount of cash deposits in our operating accounts that are with third-party financial institutions, and, as of december 31, 2008, the amount in such deposits was approximately $176.6 million on a consolidated basis. these balances exceed the federal deposit insurance corporation insurance limits. while we monitor daily the cash balances in our operating accounts and adjust the cash balances as appropriate, these cash balances could be impacted if the underlying financial institutions fail or be subject to other 10 table of contents adverse conditions in the financial markets. to date, we have experienced no loss or lack of access to cash in our operating accounts. the price per share of our stock may decline or fluctuate significantly. the market price per share of our common stock may decline or fluctuate significantly in response to many factors, including: general market and economic conditions; actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results or dividends or our payment of dividends in shares of our stock; changes in our funds from operations or earnings estimates; difficulties or inability to access capital or extend or refinance existing debt; breaches of covenants and defaults under our credit facilities and other debt; decreasing (or uncertainty in) real estate valuations; publication of research reports about us or the real estate industry; the general reputation of real estate investment trusts and the attractiveness of their equity securities in comparison to other equity securities (including securities issued by other real estate-based companies); general stock and bond market conditions, including changes in interest rates on fixed income securities, that may lead prospective purchasers of our stock to demand a higher annual yield from future dividends; a change in analyst ratings or our credit ratings; changes in market valuations of similar companies; adverse market reaction to any additional debt we incur in the future; additions or departures of key management personnel; actions by institutional stockholders; speculation in the press or investment community; terrorist activity may adversely affect the markets in which our securities trade, possibly increasing market volatility and causing the further erosion of business and consumer confidence and spending; governmental regulatory action and changes in tax laws; and the realization of any of the other risk factors included or incorporated by reference in this report. many of the factors listed above are beyond our control. these factors may cause the market price of shares of our common stock to decline, regardless of our financial condition, results of operations, business or our prospects. debt financing risks we face risks associated with the use of debt to fund our business activities, including refinancing and interest rate risks. as of december 31, 2008, we had total debt outstanding of $4.0 billion. as of december 31, 2008, we guaranteed $1.2 billion of the operating partnership obligations with respect to the senior debt securities referenced in our financial statements. we are subject to risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest. we anticipate that we will repay only a small portion of the principal of our debt prior to maturity. accordingly, we will likely need to refinance at least a portion of our outstanding debt as it matures. there is a risk that we may not be able to refinance existing debt or that the terms of any refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of our existing debt. if we are unable to refinance or extend principal payments due at maturity or pay them with proceeds of other capital 11 table of contents transactions, then we expect that our cash flow will not be sufficient in all years to repay all such maturing debt and to pay cash dividends to our stockholders. furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing (such as the reluctance of lenders to make commercial real estate loans) result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. higher interest rates on newly incurred debt may negatively impact us as well. if interest rates increase, our interest costs and overall costs of capital will increase, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operation and cash flow, the market price of our stock, our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt, our ability to pay cash dividends to our stockholders and our capital deployment activity. in addition, there may be circumstances that will require us to obtain amendments or waivers to provisions in our credit facilities or other financings. there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain necessary amendments or waivers at all or without significant expense. in such case, we may not be able to fund our business activities as planned, within budget or at all. in addition, if we mortgage one or more of our properties to secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet mortgage payments, then the property could be foreclosed upon or transferred to the lender with a consequent loss of income and asset value. a foreclosure on one or more of our properties could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to our stockholders, and the market price of our stock. as of december 31, 2008, we had outstanding bank guarantees in the amount of $27.8 million used to secure contingent obligations, primarily obligations under development and purchase agreements, including $0.7 million guaranteed under a purchase agreement entered into by an unconsolidated joint venture. as of december 31, 2008, we also guaranteed $49.6 million and $231.8 million on outstanding loans for six of our consolidated co-investment ventures and four of our unconsolidated co-investment ventures, respectively, as well as the following credit facility held by amb europe fund i, fcp-fis, one of our unconsolidated co-investment ventures. in december 2008, we agreed to guarantee 50.2 million euros (approximately $70.1 million in u.s. dollars using the exchange rate as of december 31, 2008) that our european affiliate borrowers and/or their affiliates borrowed under an existing credit facility held by amb europe fund i, fcp-fis. the european affiliate borrowers are in the process of granting security interests to the lender, as the security agent, under and in accordance with the terms of such facility, all of which security interests are expected to become effective in the first half of 2009. we agreed to guarantee the 50.2 million euro amount borrowed under such existing credit facility only until the security interests are granted, at which time the guarantees will be extinguished. also, we have entered into contribution agreements with certain of our unconsolidated co-investment venture funds. these contribution agreements require us to make additional capital contributions to the applicable co-investment venture fund upon certain defaults by the co-investment venture of its debt obligations to the lenders. such additional capital contributions will cover all or part of the applicable co-investment venture debt obligation and may be greater than our share of the co-investment venture debt obligation or the value of our share of any property securing such debt. our contribution obligations under these agreements will be reduced by the amounts recovered by the lender and the fair market value of the property, if any, used to secure the debt and obtained by the lender upon default. our potential obligations under these contribution agreements were $260.6 million as of december 31, 2008. we intend to continue to guarantee debt of our unconsolidated co-investment venture funds and make additional contributions to our unconsolidated co-investment venture funds in connection with property contributions to the funds. such payment obligations under such guarantees and contribution obligations under such contribution agreements, if required to be paid, could be of a magnitude that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to our stockholders and the market price of our stock. adverse changes in our credit ratings could negatively affect our financing activity. the credit ratings of our senior unsecured long-term debt and preferred stock are based on our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position and other factors employed by the credit rating agencies in their rating analyses of us. our credit ratings can affect the amount of capital we can access, as well as the terms and pricing of any debt we may incur. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings, and in the event our current credit ratings are downgraded, we would likely incur higher borrowing costs and may encounter difficulty in obtaining additional financing. also, a downgrade in our credit ratings may trigger additional payments or other negative consequences under our current and future credit facilities 12 table of contents and debt instruments. for example, if our credit ratings of our senior unsecured long-term debt are downgraded to below investment grade levels, we may not be able to obtain or maintain extensions on certain of our existing debt. adverse changes in our credit ratings could negatively impact our refinancing activities, our ability to manage our debt maturities, our future growth, our financial condition, the market price of our stock, and our development and acquisition activity. covenants in our debt agreements could adversely affect our financial condition. the terms of our credit agreements and other indebtedness require that we comply with a number of financial and other covenants, such as maintaining debt service coverage and leverage ratios and maintaining insurance coverage. these covenants may limit flexibility in our operations, and our failure to comply with these covenants could cause a default under the applicable debt agreement even if we have satisfied our payment obligations. as of december 31, 2008, we had certain non-recourse, secured loans, which are cross-collateralized by multiple properties. if we default on any of these loans, we may then be required to repay such indebtedness, together with applicable prepayment charges, to avoid foreclosure on all the cross-collateralized properties within the applicable pool. foreclosure on our properties, or our inability to refinance our loans on favorable terms, could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to our stockholders and the market price of our stock. in addition, our credit facilities and senior debt securities contain certain cross-default provisions, which are triggered in the event that our other material indebtedness is in default. these cross-default provisions may require us to repay or restructure the credit facilities and the senior debt securities in addition to any mortgage or other debt that is in default, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to our stockholders and the market price of our stock. failure to hedge effectively against exchange and interest rates may adversely affect results of operations. we seek to manage our exposure to exchange and interest rate volatility by using exchange and interest rate hedging arrangements, such as cap agreements and swap agreements. these agreements involve risks, such as the risk that the counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to exchange or interest rate changes and that a court could rule that such agreements are not legally enforceable. hedging may reduce overall returns on our investments. failure to hedge effectively against exchange and interest rate changes may materially adversely affect our results of operations. we are dependent on external sources of capital. in order to qualify as a real estate investment trust, we are required each year to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our real estate investment trust taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends-paid deduction and by excluding any net capital gain) and are subject to tax to the extent our income is not fully distributed. while historically we have satisfied these distribution requirements by making cash distributions to our stockholders, we may choose to satisfy these requirements by making distributions of cash or other property, including, in limited circumstances, our own stock. for distributions with respect to taxable years ending on or before december 31, 2009, recent internal revenue service guidance allows us to satisfy up to 90% of the distribution requirements discussed above through the distribution of shares of our stock, if certain conditions are met. assuming we continue to satisfy these distribution requirements with cash, we may not be able to fund all future capital needs, including acquisition and development activities, from cash retained from operations and may have to rely on third-party sources of capital. further, in order to maintain our real estate investment trust status and avoid the payment of federal income and excise taxes, we may need to borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the real estate investment trust distribution requirements even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings. these short-term borrowing needs could result from differences in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for federal income tax purposes, or the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt or amortization payments. our ability to access private debt and equity capital on favorable terms or at all is dependent upon a number of factors, including general 13 table of contents market conditions, the market perception of our growth potential, our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions and the market price of our securities. we could incur more debt, increasing our debt service. as of december 31, 2008, our share of total debt-to-our share of total market capitalization ratio was 61.4%. our definition of our share of total market capitalization is our share of total debt plus preferred equity liquidation preferences plus market equity. see footnote 1 to the capitalization ratios table contained in part ii, item 7: management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation liquidity and capital resources for our definitions of market equity and our share of total debt. as this ratio percentage increases directly with a decrease in the market price per share of our capital stock, an unstable market environment will impact this ratio in a volatile manner. however, there can be no assurance that we would not also become more highly leveraged, resulting in an increase in debt service that could adversely affect the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. furthermore, if we become more highly leveraged, we may not be in compliance with the debt covenants contained in the agreements governing our co-investment ventures, which could adversely impact our private capital business. other real estate industry risks our performance and value are subject to general economic conditions and risks associated with our real estate assets. the investment returns available from equity investments in real estate depend on the amount of income earned and capital appreciation generated by the properties, as well as the expenses incurred in connection with the properties. if our properties do not generate income sufficient to meet operating expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, then our ability to pay cash dividends to our stockholders could be adversely affected. in addition, there are significant expenditures associated with an investment in real estate (such as mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs) that generally do not decline when circumstances reduce the income from the property. income from, and the value of, our properties may be adversely affected by: changes in the general economic climate, such as the current one, including diminished access to or availability of capital (including difficulties in financing, refinancing and extending existing debt) and rising inflation; local conditions, such as oversupply of or a reduction in demand for industrial space; the attractiveness of our properties to potential customers; competition from other properties; our ability to provide adequate maintenance and insurance; increased operating costs; increased cost of compliance with regulations; the potential for liability under applicable laws (including changes in tax laws); and disruptions in the global supply chain caused by political, regulatory or other factors, including terrorism. in addition, periods of economic slowdown or recession in the united states and in other countries, rising interest rates, diminished access to or availability of capital or declining demand for real estate, may result in a general decrease in rents, an increased occurrence of defaults under existing leases or greater difficulty in financing our acquisition and development activities, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. future terrorist attacks may result in declining economic activity, which could reduce the demand for and the value of our properties. to the extent that future attacks impact our customers, their businesses similarly could be adversely affected, including their ability to continue to honor their existing leases. 14 table of contents our properties are concentrated predominantly in the industrial real estate sector. as a result of this concentration, we feel the impact of an economic downturn in this sector more acutely than if our portfolio included other property types. declining real estate valuations and impairment charges could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. the current economic downturn has generally resulted in lower real estate valuations, which has required us to recognize real estate impairment charges on our assets. in the quarter ended december 31, 2008, we recognized non-cash impairment charges of approximately $207.2 million on an owned and managed basis including $195.4 million of real estate impairment losses ($193.9 million on a consolidated basis) and $11.8 million of charges for the write-off of pursuit costs related to development projects that we no longer plan to commence and reserves against tax assets associated with the reduction in development activity. to the extent that the book value of a land parcel or development asset exceeded the fair market value of the property, based on its intended holding period, a non-cash impairment charge was recognized for the shortfall. we examined the estimated fair value of all of our assets under development and assets held for sale or contribution. the estimated fair value of each of these assets was calculated based upon our intent to sell or contribute these properties, assumptions regarding rental rates, costs to complete, lease-up and holding periods and sales prices or contribution values. to determine the fair market value for our land holdings, we considered our intent to sell or to develop the parcels and, in the case of the latter, assumptions regarding rental rates, costs to complete, lease-up and holding periods and sales prices or contribution values are taken into account. there can be no assurance that the estimates and assumptions we use to assess impairments are accurate and will reflect actual results. further deterioration in real estate market conditions may lead to additional impairment charges in the future, possibly against other assets we hold or of a greater magnitude than we have currently recognized. a worsening real estate market may cause us to reevaluate the assumptions used in our impairment analysis and our intent to hold, sell, develop or contribute properties. impairment charges could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay cash dividends to our stockholders and the market price of our stock. see part iv, item 15: note 3 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for a more detailed discussion of the real estate impairment losses recorded in our results of operations during the fourth quarter of 2008. we may be unable to renew leases or relet space as leases expire. as of december 31, 2008, on an owned and managed basis, leases on a total of 16.8% of our industrial properties (based on annualized base rent) will expire on or prior to december 31, 2009. we derive most of our income from rent received from our customers. accordingly, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and our ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock could be adversely affected if we are unable to promptly relet or renew these expiring leases or if the rental rates upon renewal or reletting are significantly lower than expected. periods of economic slowdown or recession are likely to adversely affect our leasing activities. if a customer experiences a downturn in its business or other type of financial distress, then it may be unable to make timely rental payments or renew its lease. further, our ability to rent space and the rents that we can charge are impacted, not only by customer demand, but by the number of other properties we have to compete with to appeal to customers. we could be adversely affected if a significant number of our customers are unable to meet their lease obligations. our results of operations, distributable cash flow and the value of our stock would be adversely affected if a significant number of our customers were unable to meet their lease obligations to us. in the current economic environment, it is likely that customer bankruptcies will increase. if a customer seeks the protection of bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws, such customer lease may be terminated in the process and result in a reduction of cash flow to us. in the event of a significant number of lease defaults and/or tenant bankruptcies, our cash flow may not be sufficient to pay cash dividends to our stockholders and repay maturing debt and any other obligations. as of december 31, 2008, on an owned and managed basis, we did not have any single customer account for annualized 15 table of contents base rent revenues greater than 4.1%. however, in the event of lease defaults by a significant number of our customers, we may incur substantial costs in enforcing our rights as landlord. we may be unable to complete divestitures on advantageous terms or at all. we intend to continue to divest ourselves of properties, which are currently in our pipeline, are held for sale or which otherwise do not meet our strategic objectives, and we may, in certain circumstances, divest ourselves of properties to increase our liquidity or to capitalize on opportunities that arise. our ability to dispose of properties on advantageous terms or at all depends on factors beyond our control, including competition from other sellers, current market conditions (including capitalization rates applicable to our properties) and the availability of financing for potential buyers of our properties. if we are unable to dispose of properties at all or on favorable terms or redeploy the proceeds of property divestitures in accordance with our investment strategy, then our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, ability to meet our debt obligations in a timely manner and ability to pay cash dividends to our stockholders and the market price of our stock could be adversely affected. actions by our competitors may affect our ability to divest properties and may decrease or prevent increases of the occupancy and rental rates of our properties. we compete with other owners, operators and developers of real estate, some of which own properties similar to ours in the same submarkets in which our properties are located. if our competitors sell assets similar to assets we intend to divest in the same markets and/or at valuations below our valuations for comparable assets, we may be unable to divest our assets at all or at favorable pricing or on favorable terms. in addition, if our competitors offer space at rental rates below current market rates or below the rental rates we currently charge our customers, we may lose potential customers, and we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we currently charge in order to retain customers when our customers leases expire. as a result, our financial condition, cash flow, cash available for distribution, trading price of our common stock and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations could be materially adversely affected. we may not be successful in contributing properties to our co-investment ventures. although we are curtailing our capital deployment activities until the financial and real estate markets stabilize, we may contribute or sell properties to our co-investment ventures on a case-by-case basis. however, we may fail to contribute properties to our co-investment ventures due to such factors as our inability to acquire, develop, or lease properties that meet the investment criteria of such ventures, or our co-investment ventures inability to access debt and equity capital to pay for property contributions or their allocation of available capital to cover other capital requirements such as forward commitments, loan maturities and future redemptions. if the co-investment ventures are unable to raise additional capital on favorable terms after currently available capital is depleted or if the value of such properties are appraised at less than the cost of such properties, then such contributions or sales could be delayed or prevented, adversely affecting our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to our stockholders, and the market price of our stock. for example, although we have acquired land for development and made capital commitments, we cannot be assured that we ultimately will be able to contribute such properties to our co-investment ventures as we have planned. a delay in these contributions could result in adverse effects on our liquidity and on our ability to meet projected earnings levels in a particular reporting period. failure to meet our projected earnings levels in a particular reporting period could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, distributable cash flow and the value of our securities. we are subject to risks and liabilities in connection with properties owned through co-investment ventures, limited liability companies, partnerships and other investments. as of december 31, 2008, approximately 89.9 million square feet of our properties were held through several joint ventures, limited liability companies or partnerships with third parties. our organizational documents do not limit the amount of available funds that we may invest in partnerships, limited liability companies or co-investment ventures, and we may continue to develop and acquire properties through co-investment ventures, limited liability 16 table of contents companies, partnerships with and investments in other entities when warranted by the circumstances. such partners may share certain approval rights over major decisions and some partners may manage the properties in the joint venture partnership, limited liability company or joint venture investments. partnership, limited liability company or co-investment venture investments involve certain risks, including: if our partners, co-members or co-venturers go bankrupt, then we and any other remaining general partners, members or co-venturers may generally remain liable for the partnership s, limited liability company or co-investment venture liabilities; if our partners fail to fund their share of any required capital contributions, then we may choose to or be required to contribute such capital; our partners, co-members or co-venturers might have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals that would affect our ability to operate the property; our partners, co-members or co-venturers may have the power to act contrary to our instructions, requests, policies or objectives, including our current policy with respect to maintaining our qualification as a real estate investment trust; the joint venture, limited liability company and partnership agreements often restrict the transfer of a co-venturer s, member or partner interest or may otherwise restrict our ability to sell the interest when we desire or on advantageous terms; our relationships with our partners, co-members or co-venturers are generally contractual in nature and may be terminated or dissolved under the terms of the agreements, and in such event, we may not continue to own or operate the interests or assets underlying such relationship or may need to purchase such interests or assets at an above-market price to continue ownership; disputes between us and our partners, co-members or co-investment venturers may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and directors from focusing their time and effort on our business and result in subjecting the properties owned by the applicable partnership, limited liability company, or joint venture to additional risk; and we may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of our partners, co-members or co-venturers. we generally seek to maintain sufficient control or influence over our partnerships, limited liability companies and joint ventures to permit us to achieve our business objectives, however, we may not be able to do so, and the occurrence of one or more of the events described above could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to our stockholders and the market price of our stock. we may be unable to complete renovation, development and redevelopment projects at all or on advantageous terms. on a strategic and selective basis, we may develop, renovate and redevelop properties. in the long term after the credit markets stabilize, we may expand and increase our investment in our development, renovation and redevelopment business. the real estate development, renovation and redevelopment business involves significant risks that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to our stockholders and the market price of our stock, which include the following risks: we may not be able to obtain financing for development projects at all or on favorable terms and complete construction on schedule or within budget, resulting in increased debt service expense and construction costs and delays in leasing the properties, generating cash flow and, if applicable, contributing properties to a joint venture; we may not be able to obtain, or may experience delays in obtaining, all necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other governmental permits and authorizations; the properties may perform below anticipated levels, producing cash flow below budgeted amounts; we may not be able to lease properties at all or on favorable terms; 17 table of contents construction costs, total investment amounts and our share of remaining funding may exceed our estimates and projects may not be completed, delivered or stabilized as planned; we may not be able to capture the anticipated enhanced value created by our value-added conversion projects ever or on our expected timetables; we may fail to contribute properties to our co-investment ventures due to such factors as our inability to acquire, develop, or lease properties that meet the investment criteria of such ventures, or our co-investment ventures inability to access debt and equity capital to pay for property contributions or their allocation of available capital to cover other capital requirements such as future redemptions; we may experience delays (temporary or permanent) if there is public opposition to our activities; substantial renovation, new development and redevelopment activities, regardless of their ultimate success, typically require a significant amount of management time and attention, diverting their attention from our day-to-day operations; and upon completion of construction, we may not be able to obtain, or obtain on advantageous terms, permanent financing for activities that we have financed through construction loans. we may be unable to consummate acquisitions at all or on advantageous terms or acquisitions may not perform as we expect. on a strategic and selective basis, we may continue to acquire properties, primarily industrial in nature. the acquisition of properties entails various risks, including the risks that our investments may not perform or grow in value as we expect, that we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate our new acquisitions into our existing operations or, if applicable, contribute the acquired properties to a joint venture, and that our cost estimates for bringing an acquired property up to market standards may prove inaccurate. in addition, we expect to finance future acquisitions through a combination of borrowings under our unsecured credit facilities, proceeds from equity or debt offerings by us or the operating partnership or our subsidiaries and proceeds from property divestitures, which may not be available and which could adversely affect our cash flow. further, we face significant competition for attractive investment opportunities from other real estate investors, including both publicly-traded real estate investment trusts and private institutional investors and funds. this competition increases as investments in real estate become increasingly attractive relative to other forms of investment. as a result of competition, we may be unable to acquire additional properties as we desire or the purchase price may be significantly elevated. any of the above risks could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and the ability to pay cash dividends to our stockholders, and the market price of our stock. real estate investments are relatively illiquid, making it difficult for us to respond promptly to changing conditions. real estate assets are not as liquid as certain other types of assets. further, the internal revenue code regulates the number of properties that we, as a real estate investment trust, can dispose of in a year, their tax bases and the cost of improvements that we make to the properties. in addition, a portion of the properties held directly or indirectly by certain of our subsidiary partnerships were acquired in exchange for limited partnership units in the applicable partnership. the contribution agreements for such properties may contain restrictions on certain sales, exchanges or other dispositions of these properties, or a portion thereof, that result in a taxable transaction for specified periods, following the contribution of these properties to the applicable partnership. these limitations may affect our ability to sell properties. this lack of liquidity and the internal revenue code restrictions may limit our ability to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions and, as a result, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow, the market price of our stock, the ability to pay cash dividends to our stockholders, and our ability to access capital necessary to meet our debt payments and other obligations. 18 table of contents risks associated with our international business our international activities are subject to special risks and we may not be able to effectively manage our international business. we have acquired and developed, and may continue to acquire and develop on a strategic and selective basis, properties outside the united states. because local markets affect our operations, our international investments are subject to economic fluctuations in the international locations in which we invest. access to capital may be more restricted, or unavailable entirely or on favorable terms, in certain locations. in addition, our international operations are subject to the usual risks of doing business abroad such as revisions in tax treaties or other laws and regulations, including those governing the taxation of our international revenues, restrictions on the transfer of funds, and, in certain parts of the world, uncertainty over property rights and political instability. we cannot predict the likelihood that any of these developments may occur. further, we have entered, and may in the future enter, into agreements with non-u.s. entities that are governed by the laws of, and are subject to dispute resolution in the courts of, another country or region. we cannot accurately predict whether such a forum would provide us with an effective and efficient means of resolving disputes that may arise. further, even if we are able to obtain a satisfactory decision through arbitration or a court proceeding, we could have difficulty enforcing any award or judgment on a timely basis or at all. we also have offices in many countries outside the united states and, as a result, our operations may be subject to risks that may limit our ability to effectively establish, staff and manage our offices outside the united states, including: differing employment practices and labor issues; local business and cultural factors that differ from our usual standards and practices; regulatory requirements and prohibitions that differ between jurisdictions; and health concerns. our global growth (including growth in new regions in the united states) subjects us to certain risks, including risks associated with funding increasing headcount, integrating new offices, and establishing effective controls and procedures to regulate the operations of new offices. in addition, payroll expenses are paid in local currencies and, therefore, we are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in the rate of exchange between the u.s. dollar and these currencies. further, our business has grown rapidly and may continue to grow in a strategic and deliberate manner. if we fail to effectively manage our international growth, then our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to our stockholders, and the market price of our stock could be adversely affected. we are subject to risks from potential fluctuations in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and the currencies of the other countries in which we invest. we may pursue growth opportunities in international markets on a strategic and selective basis. as we invest in countries where the u.s. dollar is not the national currency, we are subject to international currency risks from the potential fluctuations in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and the currencies of those other countries. a significant depreciation in the value of the currency of one or more countries where we have a significant investment may materially affect our results of operations. we attempt to mitigate any such effects by borrowing in the currency of the country in which we are investing and, under certain circumstances, by putting in place international currency put option contracts to hedge exchange rate fluctuations. for leases denominated in international currencies, we may use derivative financial instruments to manage the international currency exchange risk. we cannot assure you, however, that our efforts will successfully neutralize all international currency risks. 19 table of contents acquired properties may be located in new markets, where we may face risks associated with investing in an unfamiliar market. we have acquired and may continue to acquire properties on a strategic and selective basis in international markets that are new to us. when we acquire properties located in these markets, we may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local economy, forging new business relationships in the area and unfamiliarity with local government and permitting procedures. we work to mitigate such risks through extensive diligence and research and associations with experienced partners; however, there can be no guarantee that all such risks will be eliminated. general business risks our performance and value are impacted by the local economic conditions of and the risks associated with doing business in california. as of december 31, 2008, our industrial properties located in california represented 23.7% of the aggregate square footage of our industrial operating properties and 22.3% of our industrial annualized base rent, on an owned and managed basis. our revenue from, and the value of, our properties located in california may be affected by local real estate conditions (such as an oversupply of or reduced demand for industrial properties) and the local economic climate. business layoffs, downsizing, industry slowdowns, changing demographics and other factors may adversely impact california economic climate. because of the number of properties we have located in california, a downturn in california economy or real estate conditions could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to our stockholders and the market price of our stock. we may experience losses that our insurance does not cover. we carry commercial liability, property and rental loss insurance covering all the properties that we own and manage in types and amounts that we believe are adequate and appropriate given the relative risks applicable to the property, the cost of coverage and industry practice. certain losses, such as those due to terrorism, windstorms, floods or seismic activity, may be insured subject to certain limitations, including large deductibles or co-payments and policy limits. although we have obtained coverage for certain acts of terrorism, with policy specifications and insured limits that we consider commercially reasonable given the cost and availability of such coverage, we cannot be certain that we will be able to renew coverage on comparable terms or collect under such policies. in addition, there are other types of losses, such as those from riots, bio-terrorism or acts of war, that are not generally insured in our industry because it is not economically feasible to do so. we may incur material losses in excess of insurance proceeds and we may not be able to continue to obtain insurance at commercially reasonable rates. given current market conditions, there can also be no assurance that the insurance companies providing our coverage will not fail or have difficulty meeting their coverage obligations to us. furthermore, we cannot assure you that our insurance companies will be able to continue to offer products with sufficient coverage at commercially reasonable rates. if we experience a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds our insured limits with respect to one or more of our properties or if our insurance companies fail to meet their coverage commitments to us in the event of an insured loss, then we could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties, as well as the anticipated future revenue from those properties and, if there is recourse debt, then we would remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the properties. moreover, as the general partner of the operating partnership, we generally will be liable for all of the operating partnership unsatisfied recourse obligations, including any obligations incurred by the operating partnership as the general partner of co-investment ventures. any such losses or higher insurance costs could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to our stockholders and the market price of our stock. a number of our properties are located in areas that are known to be subject to earthquake activity. u.s. properties located in active seismic areas include properties in the san francisco bay area, los angeles, and seattle. our largest concentration of such properties is in california where, on an owned and managed basis, as of december 31, 2008, we had 296 industrial buildings, aggregating approximately 31.2 million square feet and representing 23.7% of our industrial operating properties based on aggregate square footage and 22.3% based on industrial annualized base rent, on an owned and managed basis. international properties located in active seismic 20 table of contents areas include tokyo and osaka, japan and mexico city, mexico. we carry earthquake insurance on all of our properties located in areas historically subject to seismic activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles that we believe are commercially reasonable. we evaluate our earthquake insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants. a number of our properties are located in areas that are known to be subject to hurricane and/or flood risk. we carry hurricane and flood hazard insurance on all of our properties located in areas historically subject to such activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles that we believe are commercially reasonable. we evaluate our insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants. contingent or unknown liabilities could adversely affect our financial condition. we have acquired and may in the future acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities. as a result, if a liability were asserted against us based upon ownership of any of these entities or properties, then we might have to pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely affect our cash flow. contingent or unknown liabilities with respect to entities or properties acquired might include: liabilities for environmental conditions; losses in excess of our insured coverage; accrued but unpaid liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; tax, legal and regulatory liabilities; claims of customers, vendors or other persons dealing with our predecessors prior to our formation or acquisition transactions that had not been asserted or were unknown prior to our formation or acquisition transactions; and claims for indemnification by the general partners, officers and directors and others indemnified by the former owners of our properties. risks associated with our dependence on key personnel we depend on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. from time to time, our personnel and their roles may change. as part of our cost savings plan, we have reduced our total global headcount and may do so again in the future. while we believe that we have retained our key talent and left our global platform intact and can find suitable employees to meet our personnel needs, the loss of key personnel, any change in their roles, or the limitation of their availability could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends to our stockholders, and the market price of our stock. we do not have employment agreements with any of our executive officers. because our compensation packages include equity-based incentives, pressure on our stock price or limitations on our ability to award such incentives could affect our ability to offer competitive compensation packages to our executives and key employees. if we are unable to continue to attract and retain our executive officers, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain key employees become more expensive, our performance and competitive position could be materially adversely affected. conflicts of interest risks some of our directors and executive officers are involved in other real estate activities and investments and, therefore, may have conflicts of interest with us. from time to time, certain of our executive officers and directors may own interests in other real-estate related businesses and investments, including de minimis holdings of the equity securities of public and private real estate companies. our executive officers involvement in other real estate-related activities could divert their attention from our day-to-day operations. our executive officers have entered into non-competition agreements with us 21 table of contents pursuant to which they have agreed not to engage in any activities, directly or indirectly, in respect of commercial real estate, and not to make any investment in respect of any industrial or retail real estate, other than through ownership of not more than 5% of the outstanding shares of a public company engaged in such activities or through certain specified investments. state law may limit our ability to enforce these agreements. we will not acquire any properties from our executive officers, directors or their affiliates unless the transaction is approved by a majority of the disinterested and independent (as defined by the rules of the new york stock exchange) members of our board of directors with respect to that transaction. our role as general partner of the operating partnership may conflict with the interests of our stockholders. as the general partner of the operating partnership, we have fiduciary obligations to the operating partnership limited partners, the discharge of which may conflict with the interests of our stockholders. in addition, those persons holding limited partnership units will have the right to vote as a class on certain amendments to the operating partnership partnership agreement and individually to approve certain amendments that would adversely affect their rights. the limited partners may exercise these voting rights in a manner that conflicts with the interests of our stockholders. in addition, under the terms of the operating partnership partnership agreement, holders of limited partnership units will have approval rights with respect to specified transactions that affect all stockholders but which they may not exercise in a manner that reflects the interests of all stockholders. risks associated with government regulations the costs of compliance with environmental laws and regulations and any related potential liability could exceed our budgets for these items. under various environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be liable for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products at, on, under, in or from its property. the costs of removal or remediation of such substances could be substantial. these laws typically impose liability and clean-up responsibility without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. even if more than one person may have been responsible for the contamination, each person covered by the environmental laws may be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs incurred. in addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages based on personal injury, property damage or other costs, including investigation and clean-up costs, resulting from the environmental contamination. environmental laws in some countries, including the united states, also require that owners or operators of buildings containing asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos, adequately inform or train those who may come into contact with asbestos and undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, in the event that asbestos is disturbed during building renovation or demolition. these laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos. some of our properties are known to contain asbestos-containing building materials. in addition, some of our properties are leased or have been leased, in part, to owners and operators of businesses that use, store or otherwise handle petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, creating a potential for the release of such hazardous or toxic substances. further, certain of our properties are on, adjacent to or near other properties that have contained or currently contain petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, or upon which others have engaged, are engaged or may engage in activities that may release such hazardous or toxic substances. from time to time, we may acquire properties, or interests in properties, with known adverse environmental conditions where we believe that the environmental liabilities associated with these conditions are quantifiable and that the acquisition will yield a superior risk-adjusted return. in such an instance, we underwrite the costs of environmental investigation, clean-up and monitoring into the acquisition cost and obtain appropriate environmental insurance for the property. further, in connection with certain divested properties, we have agreed to remain responsible for, and to bear the cost of, remediating or monitoring certain environmental conditions on the properties. 22 table of contents at the time of acquisition, we subject all of our properties to a phase i or similar environmental assessments by independent environmental consultants and we may have additional phase ii testing performed upon the consultant recommendation. these environmental assessments have not revealed, and we are not aware of, any environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations taken as a whole. nonetheless, it is possible that the assessments did not reveal all environmental liabilities and that there are material environmental liabilities unknown to us, or that known environmental conditions may give rise to liabilities that are greater than we anticipated. further, our properties current environmental condition may be affected by customers, the condition of land, operations in the vicinity of the properties (such as releases from underground storage tanks) or by unrelated third parties. if the costs of compliance with existing or future environmental laws and regulations exceed our budgets for these items, then our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to our stockholders, and the market price of our stock could be adversely affected. compliance or failure to comply with the americans with disabilities act and other similar regulations could result in substantial costs. under the americans with disabilities act, places of public accommodation must meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the award of damages to private litigants. if we are required to make unanticipated expenditures to comply with the americans with disabilities act, including removing access barriers, then our cash flow and the amounts available for dividends to our stockholders may be adversely affected. our properties are also subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life-safety requirements. we could incur fines or private damage awards if we fail to comply with these requirements. while we believe that our properties are currently in material compliance with these regulatory requirements, the requirements may change or new requirements may be imposed that could require significant unanticipated expenditures by us that will affect our cash flow and results of operations. federal income tax risks our failure to qualify as a real estate investment trust would have serious adverse consequences to our stockholders. we elected to be taxed as a real estate investment trust under sections 856 through 860 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the internal revenue code ), commencing with our taxable year ended december 31, 1997. we believe we have operated so as to qualify as a real estate investment trust under the internal revenue code and believe that our current organization and method of operation comply with the rules and regulations promulgated under the internal revenue code to enable us to continue to qualify as a real estate investment trust. however, it is possible that we have been organized or have operated in a manner that would not allow us to qualify as a real estate investment trust, or that our future operations could cause us to fail to qualify. qualification as a real estate investment trust requires us to satisfy numerous requirements (some on an annual and others on a quarterly basis) established under highly technical and complex sections of the internal revenue code for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations, and involves the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. for example, in order to qualify as a real estate investment trust, we must derive at least 95% of our gross income in any year from qualifying sources. in addition, we must pay dividends to our stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our real estate investment trust taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding capital gains) and must satisfy specified asset tests on a quarterly basis. while historically we have satisfied the distribution requirement discussed above by making cash distributions to our stockholders, we may choose to satisfy this requirement by making distributions of cash or other property, including, in limited circumstances, our own stock. for distributions with respect to taxable years ending on or before december 31, 2009, recent internal revenue service guidance allows us to satisfy up to 90% of this distribution requirement through the distribution of shares of our stock, if certain conditions are met. the provisions of the internal revenue code and applicable treasury regulations regarding qualification as a real estate investment trust are more complicated in our case because we hold our assets through the operating partnership. legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or 23 table of contents court decisions could significantly change the tax laws with respect to qualification as a real estate investment trust or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification. however, we are not aware of any pending tax legislation that would adversely affect our ability to qualify as a real estate investment trust. if we fail to qualify as a real estate investment trust in any taxable year, we will be required to pay federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. unless we are entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from treatment as a real estate investment trust for the four taxable years following the year in which we lost our qualification. if we lost our real estate investment trust status, our net earnings available for investment or distribution to stockholders would be significantly reduced for each of the years involved. in addition, we would no longer be required to make distributions to our stockholders. furthermore, we own a direct or indirect interest in certain subsidiary reits which elected to be taxed as a reit under sections 856 through 860 of the internal revenue code. provided that each subsidiary reit qualifies as a reit, our interest in such subsidiary reit will be treated as a qualifying real estate asset for purposes of the reit asset tests, and any dividend income or gains derived by us from such subsidiary reit will generally be treated as income that qualifies for purposes of the reit gross income tests. to qualify as a reit, the subsidiary reit must independently satisfy various reit qualification requirements. if such subsidiary reit were to fail to qualify as a reit, and certain relief provisions did not apply, it would be treated as a regular taxable corporation and its income would be subject to united states federal income tax. in addition, a failure of the subsidiary reit to qualify as a reit would have an adverse effect on our ability to comply with the reit income and asset tests, and thus our ability to qualify as a reit. certain property transfers may generate prohibited transaction income, resulting in a penalty tax on gain attributable to the transaction. from time to time, we may transfer or otherwise dispose of some of our properties, including by contributing properties to our co-investment venture funds. under the internal revenue code, any gain resulting from transfers of properties we hold as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is treated as income from a prohibited transaction subject to a 100% penalty tax. we do not believe that our transfers or disposals of property or our contributions of properties into our co-investment ventures are prohibited transactions. however, whether property is held for investment purposes is a question of fact that depends on all the facts and circumstances surrounding the particular transaction. the internal revenue service may contend that certain transfers or dispositions of properties by us or contributions of properties into our co-investment venture funds are prohibited transactions. while we believe that the internal revenue service would not prevail in any such dispute, if the internal revenue service were to argue successfully that a transfer, disposition, or contribution of property constituted a prohibited transaction, we would be required to pay a 100% penalty tax on any gain allocable to us from the prohibited transaction. in addition, income from a prohibited transaction might adversely affect our ability to satisfy the income tests for qualification as a real estate investment trust. we may in the future choose to pay dividends in our own stock, in which case you may be required to pay tax in excess of the cash you receive. we may distribute taxable dividends that are payable in our stock. under irs revenue procedure 2009-15, up to 90% of any such taxable dividend for 2008 and 2009 could be payable in our stock. taxable stockholders receiving such dividends will be required to include the full amount of the dividend as ordinary income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits for united states federal income tax purposes. as a result, a u.s. stockholder may be required to pay tax with respect to such dividends in excess of the cash received. if a u.s. stockholder sells the stock it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our stock at the time of the sale. furthermore, with respect to non-u.s. stockholders, we may be required to withhold u.s. tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in stock. in addition, if a significant number of our stockholders determine to sell shares of our stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, it may put downward pressure on the trading price of our stock. 24 table of contents risks associated with ownership of our stock limitations in our charter and bylaws could prevent a change in control. certain provisions of our charter and bylaws may delay, defer or prevent a change in control or other transaction that could provide the holders of our common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for the common stock. to maintain our qualification as a real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding stock may be owned, actually or constructively, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the internal revenue code to include certain entities) during the last half of a taxable year after the first taxable year for which a real estate investment trust election is made. furthermore, our common stock must be held by a minimum of 100 persons for at least 335 days of a 12-month taxable year (or a proportionate part of a short tax year). in addition, if we, or an owner of 10% or more of our stock, actually or constructively owns 10% or more of one of our customers (or a customer of any partnership in which we are a partner), then the rent received by us (either directly or through any such partnership) from that customer will not be qualifying income for purposes of the real estate investment trust gross income tests of the internal revenue code. to help us maintain our qualification as a real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes, we prohibit the ownership, actually or by virtue of the constructive ownership provisions of the internal revenue code, by any single person, of more than 9.8% (by value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the issued and outstanding shares of each of our common stock, series l preferred stock, series m preferred stock, series o preferred stock, and series p preferred stock (unless such limitations are waived by our board of directors). we also prohibit the ownership, actually or constructively, of any shares of our series d preferred stock by any single person so that no such person, taking into account all of our stock so owned by such person, including any common stock or other series of preferred stock, may own in excess of 9.8% of our issued and outstanding capital stock (unless such limitations are waived by our board of directors). we refer to this limitation as the ownership limit. the charter provides that shares acquired or held in violation of the ownership limit will be transferred to a trust for the benefit of a designated charitable beneficiary. the charter further provides that any person who acquires shares in violation of the ownership limit will not be entitled to any dividends on the shares or be entitled to vote the shares or receive any proceeds from the subsequent sale of the shares in excess of the lesser of the price paid for the shares or the amount realized from the sale. a transfer of shares in violation of the above limits may be void under certain circumstances. the ownership limit may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control and, therefore, could adversely affect our stockholders ability to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for the shares of our common stock in connection with such transaction. our charter authorizes us to issue additional shares of common and preferred stock and to establish the preferences, rights and other terms of any series or class of preferred stock that we issue. our board of directors could establish a series or class of preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction, including a change in control, that might involve a premium price for the common stock or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. our charter and bylaws and maryland law also contain other provisions that may impede various actions by stockholders without the approval of our board of directors, which in turn may delay, defer or prevent a transaction, including a change in control. those provisions in our charter and bylaws include: directors may be removed only for cause and only upon a two-thirds vote of stockholders; our board can fix the number of directors within set limits (which limits are subject to change by our board), and fill vacant directorships upon the vote of a majority of the remaining directors, even though less than a quorum, or in the case of a vacancy resulting from an increase in the size of the board, a majority of the entire board; stockholders must give advance notice to nominate directors or propose business for consideration at a stockholders meeting; and the request of the holders of 50% or more of our common stock is necessary for stockholders to call a special meeting. 25 table of contents those provisions provided for under maryland law include: a two-thirds vote of stockholders is required to amend our charter; and stockholders may only act by written consent with the unanimous approval of all stockholders entitled to vote on the matter in question. in addition, our board could elect to adopt, without stockholder approval, other provisions under maryland law that may impede a change in control. if we issue additional securities, then the investment of existing stockholders will be diluted. as a real estate investment trust, we are dependent on external sources of capital and may issue common or preferred stock or debt securities to fund our future capital needs. we have authority to issue shares of common stock or other equity or debt securities, and to cause the operating partnership or amb property ii, l.p., one of our subsidiaries, to issue limited partnership units, in exchange for property or otherwise. existing stockholders have no preemptive right to acquire any additional securities issued by the operating partnership, amb property ii, l.p., or us and any issuance of additional equity securities may adversely effect the market price of our stock and could result in dilution of an existing stockholder investment. earnings, cash dividends, asset value and market interest rates affect the price of our stock. as a real estate investment trust, the market value of our equity securities, in general, is based primarily upon the market perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash dividends. the market value of our equity securities is based secondarily upon the market value of our underlying real estate assets. for this reason, shares of our stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than our net asset value per share. to the extent that we retain operating cash flow for investment purposes, working capital reserves, or other purposes, these retained funds, while increasing the value of our underlying assets, may not correspondingly increase the market price of our stock. our failure to meet the market expectations with regard to future earnings and cash dividends likely would adversely affect the market price of our stock. further, the distribution yield on the stock (as a percentage of the price of the stock) relative to market interest rates may also influence the price of our stock. an increase in market interest rates might lead prospective purchasers of our stock to expect a higher distribution yield, which would adversely affect our stock market price. additionally, if the market price of our stock declines significantly, then we might breach certain covenants with respect to our debt obligations, which could adversely affect our liquidity and ability to make future acquisitions and our ability to pay cash dividends to our stockholders. our board of directors has decided to align our regular dividend payments with the projected taxable income from recurring operations alone. we may make special distributions going forward, as necessary, related to taxable income associated with any asset dispositions and gain activity. in the past, our board of directors has suspended dividends to our stockholders, and it is possible that they may do so again in the future, or decide to pay dividends in our own stock as provided for in the internal revenue code. we could change our investment and financing policies without a vote of stockholders. subject to our current investment policy to maintain our qualification as a real estate investment trust (unless a change is approved by our board of directors under certain circumstances), our board of directors determines our investment and financing policies, our growth strategy and our debt, capitalization, distribution and operating policies. our board of directors may revise or amend these strategies and policies at any time without a vote of stockholders. any such changes may not serve the interests of all stockholders and could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations, including our ability to pay cash dividends to our stockholders. shares available for future sale could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. the operating partnership and amb property ii, l.p. had 3,439,522 common limited partnership units issued and outstanding as of december 31, 2008, all of which are currently exchangeable on a one-for-one basis into shares of our common stock. in the future, the operating partnership or amb property ii, l.p. may issue additional limited 26 table of contents partnership units, and we may issue shares of common stock, in connection with the acquisition of properties or in private placements. these shares of common stock and the shares of common stock issuable upon exchange of limited partnership units may be sold in the public securities markets over time, pursuant to registration rights that we have granted, or may grant in connection with future issuances, or pursuant to rule 144 under the securities act of 1933. in addition, common stock issued under our stock option and incentive plans may also be sold in the market pursuant to registration statements that we have filed or pursuant to rule 144. as of december 31, 2008, under our stock option and incentive plans, we had 8,447,215 shares of common stock reserved and available for future issuance, had outstanding options to purchase 6,206,678 shares of common stock (of which 5,161,609 are vested and exercisable and 178,890 have exercise prices below market value at december 31, 2008) and had 859,026 unvested restricted shares of common stock outstanding. future sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the market or the perception that such sales might occur could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. further, the existence of the common limited partnership units of the operating partnership and amb property ii, l.p. and the shares of our common stock reserved for issuance upon exchange of limited partnership units and the exercise of options, and registration rights referred to above, may adversely affect the terms upon which we are able to obtain additional capital through the sale of equity securities. risks associated with our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting our business could be adversely impacted if we have deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting. the design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors, misstatements or misrepresentations. while management will continue to review the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, there can be no guarantee that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. furthermore, our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting with respect to entities that we do not control or manage or third-party entities that we may acquire may be substantially more limited than those we maintain with respect to the subsidiaries that we have controlled or managed over the course of time. deficiencies, including any material weakness, in our internal control over financial reporting which may occur in the future could result in misstatements of our results of operations, restatements of our financial statements, a decline in our stock price, or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the risk of loss from adverse changes in market prices, interest rates and international exchange rates. our future earnings and cash flows are dependent upon prevailing market rates. accordingly, we manage our market risk by matching projected cash inflows from operating, investing and financing activities with projected cash outflows for debt service, acquisitions, capital expenditures, distributions to stockholders and unitholders, and other cash requirements. the majority of our outstanding debt has fixed interest rates, which minimize the risk of fluctuating interest rates. our exposure to market risk includes interest rate fluctuations in connection with our credit facilities and other variable rate borrowings and our ability to incur more debt without stockholder approval, thereby increasing our debt service obligations, which could adversely affect our cash flows. as of december 31, 2008, we had three outstanding interest rate swaps, two interest rate caps, and two outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $876.8 million (in u.s. dollars). see financial instruments below. 84 table of contents the table below summarizes the maturities and interest rates associated with our fixed and variable rate debt outstanding at book value and estimated fair value before net unamortized debt discounts of $9.7 million as of december 31, 2008 (dollars in thousands): 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 thereafter total fair value fixed rate debt(1) $ 478,175 $ 636,486 $ 142,008 $ 379,261 $ 540,525 $ 304,066 $ 2,480,521 $ 2,104,418 average interest rate 3.9 % 5.6 % 6.6 % 5.9 % 6.1 % 6.4 % 5.6 % n/a variable rate debt(2) $ 319,862 $ 627,541 $ 457,496 $ 62,896 $ 22,279 $ 29,343 $ 1,519,417 $ 1,427,698 average interest rate 2.1 % 2.5 % 2.4 % 1.5 % 2.9 % 6.3 % 2.4 % n/a interest payments $ 25,215 $ 51,365 $ 20,169 $ 23,366 $ 33,817 $ 21,173 $ 175,105 n/a (1) represents 62.0% of all outstanding debt at december 31, 2008. (2) represents 38.0% of all outstanding debt at december 31, 2008. if market rates of interest on our variable rate debt increased or decreased by 10%, then the increase or decrease in interest cost on our variable rate debt would be $3.6 million (net of the swap) annually. as of december 31, 2008, the book value and the estimated fair value of our total consolidated debt (both secured and unsecured) was $4.0 billion and $3.5 billion, respectively, based on our estimate of current market interest rates. as of december 31, 2008 and 2007, variable rate debt comprised 38.0% and 39.0%, respectively, of all our outstanding debt. variable rate debt was $1.5 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively, as of december 31, 2008 and 2007. financial instruments. we record all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value as an asset or liability, with an offset to accumulated other comprehensive income or income. for revenues or expenses denominated in non-functional currencies, we may use derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk. our derivative financial instruments in effect at december 31, 2008 were three interest rate swaps hedging cash flows of variable rate borrowings based on u.s. libor (usd), two interest rate caps hedging cash flows of variable rate borrowings based on japanese yen libor, and two currency forward contracts hedging intercompany loans. 85 table of contents the following table summarizes our financial instruments as of december 31, 2008 (in thousands): maturity dates march 31, september 27, december 11, september 4, november 21, notional fair related derivatives (dollars in thousands) 2009 2009 2009 2010 2011 amount value interest rate swaps (usd) notional amount $ 325,000 $ 325,000 receive floating(%) us libor pay fixed rate(%) 2.50 % fair market value (usd) $ (4,266 ) $ (4,266 ) notional amount $ 130,000 $ 130,000 receive floating(%) us libor pay fixed rate(%) 2.70 % fair market value (usd) $ (2,609 ) $ (2,609 ) notional amount $ 100,000 $ 100,000 receive floating(%) us libor pay fixed rate(%) 2.70 % fair market value (usd) $ (1,208 ) $ (1,208 ) interest rate caps (jpy) notional amount $ 86,017 $ 86,017 receive floating(%) jpy-libor-bba pay fixed rate(%) 1.50 % fair market value (usd) $ 51 $ 51 notional amount $ 11,028 $ 11,028 receive floating(%) jpy-libor-bba pay fixed rate(%) 1.50 % fair market value (usd) $ 7 $ 7 foreign exchange forward contracts fx forward contract, euro notional amount (usd) $ 161,980 $ 161,980 forward strike rate 1.41 3/31/09 forward rate as of 12/31/2008 1.39 fair market value (usd) $ 1,508 $ 1,508 fx forward contract, gbp notional amount (usd) $ 62,736 $ 62,736 forward strike rate 1.44 3/31/09 forward rate as of 12/31/2008 1.46 fair market value (usd) $ (720 ) $ (720 ) $ 876,761 $ (7,237 ) international operations. our exposure to market risk also includes foreign currency exchange rate risk. the u.s. dollar is the functional currency for our subsidiaries operating in the united states, mexico and certain subsidiaries in europe. the functional currency for our subsidiaries operating outside the united states, other than mexico and certain subsidiaries in europe, is generally the local currency of the country in which the entity or property is located, mitigating the effect of foreign exchange gains and losses. our subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the u.s. dollar translate their financial statements into u.s. dollars. assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rate in effect as of the financial statement date. we translate income statement accounts using the average exchange rate for the period and significant nonrecurring transactions using the rate on the transaction date. the gains resulting from the translation are included in accumulated other comprehensive income as a separate component of stockholders equity and totaled $23.6 million and $14.8 million for the years ended december 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. our international subsidiaries may have transactions denominated in currencies other than their functional currency. in these instances, non-monetary assets and liabilities are reflected at the historical exchange rate, monetary assets and liabilities are remeasured at the exchange rate in effect at the end of the period and income 86 table of contents statement accounts are remeasured at the average exchange rate for the period. we also record gains or losses in the income statement when a transaction with a third party, denominated in a currency other than the entity functional currency, is settled and the functional currency cash flows realized are more or less than expected based upon the exchange rate in effect when the transaction was initiated. for the years ended december 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, total unrealized and realized (losses) gains from remeasurement included in our results of operations were $(5.7) million, $3.9 million and $0.8 million, respectively.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the risk of loss from adverse changes in market prices, interest rates and international exchange rates. our future earnings and cash flows are dependent upon prevailing market rates. accordingly, we manage our market risk by matching projected cash inflows from operating, investing and financing 61 activities with projected cash outflows for debt service, acquisitions, capital expenditures, distributions to stockholders and unitholders, and other cash requirements. the majority of our outstanding debt has fixed interest rates, which minimizes the risk of fluctuating interest rates. our exposure to market risk includes interest rate fluctuations in connection with our credit facilities and other variable rate borrowings and our ability to incur more debt without stockholder approval, thereby increasing our debt service obligations, which could adversely affect our cash flows. as of december 31, 2004, we had two outstanding interest rate swaps with aggregate notional amount of $137.1 million (in u.s. dollars). see financial instruments disclosure below. the table below summarizes the market risks associated with our fixed and variable rate debt outstanding before unamortized debt premiums of $10.8 million as of december 31, 2004 (dollars in thousands): 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 thereafter total fixed rate debt(1) $ 358,798 $ 172,312 $ 145,740 $ 386,761 $ 188,305 $ 1,496,223 $ 2,748,139 average interest rate 7.0 % 6.6 % 6.9 % 6.7 % 4.8 % 7.2 % 6.6 % variable rate debt(2) $ 1,049 $ 84,037 $ 341,191 $ 5,571 $ 37,375 $ 29,063 $ 498,286 average interest rate 3.6 % 2.6 % 2.0 % 2.8 % 2.7 % 1.9 % 2.1 % interest payments $ 25,154 $ 13,558 $ 16,880 $ 26,069 $ 10,048 $ 108,280 $ 199,989 (1) represents 84.7% of all outstanding debt. (2) represents 15.3% of all outstanding debt. if market rates of interest on our variable rate debt increased by 10%, then the increase in interest expense on the variable rate debt would be $1.1 million annually. as of december 31, 2004, the book value and the estimated fair value of our total consolidated debt (both secured and unsecured) was $3.4 billion based on our estimate of current market interest rates. as of december 31, 2004 and 2003, variable rate debt comprised 15.3% and 14.7%, respectively, of all our outstanding debt. variable rate debt was $498.3 million and $378.0 million, respectively, as of december 31, 2004 and 2003. the increase is primarily due to higher outstanding balances on our credit facilities. this increase in our outstanding variable rate debt increases our risk associated with unfavorable interest rate fluctuations. financial instruments. we record all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value as an asset or liability, with an offset to accumulated other comprehensive income or income. for revenues or expenses denominated in non-functional currencies, we may use derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk. our derivative financial instruments in effect at december 31, 2004 were two put options (buy usd/sell mxn) hedging against adverse currency exchange fluctuations of the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar and two interest rate swaps hedging cash flows of our variable rate borrowings based on 62 euribor (europe) and japanese tibor (japan). the following table summarizes our financial instruments as of december 31, 2004: maturity dates notional related derivatives (in thousands) march-05 dec-08 october-12 amount fair value interest rate swaps: plain interest rate swap, japan notional amount (u.s. dollars) $ 126,669 $ 126,669 receive floating(%) 3m tibor pay fixed rate(%) 1.32 % fair market value $ $ (1,211 ) plain interest rate swap, europe notional amount (u.s. dollars) $ 10,437 $ 10,437 receive floating(%) 3m euribor pay fixed rate(%) 3.72 % fair market value $ $ (13 ) foreign exchange agreements: option to sell mxn/ buy usd contract amount (u.s. dollars) $ 2,422 $ 2,422 contract fx rate 11.50 contract premium $ 43 $ 30 total $ 139,528 $ (1,194 ) international operations. our exposure to market risk also includes foreign currency exchange rate risk. the u.s. dollar is the functional currency for our subsidiaries operating in the united states and mexico. the functional currency for our subsidiaries operating outside north america is generally the local currency of the country in which the entity is located, mitigating the effect of currency exchange gains and losses. our subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the u.s. dollar translate their financial statements into u.s. dollars. assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rate in effect as of the financial statement date. we translate income statement accounts using the average exchange rate for the period and significant nonrecurring transactions using the rate on the transaction date. losses resulting from the translation are included in accumulated other comprehensive income as a separate component of stockholders equity and totaled $0.4 million for the year ended december 31, 2004. our international subsidiaries may have transactions denominated in currencies other than their functional currency. in these instances, non-monetary assets and liabilities are reflected at the historical exchange rate, monetary assets and liabilities are remeasured at the exchange rate in effect at the end of the period and income statement accounts are remeasured at the average exchange rate for the period. for the year ended december 31, 2004, gains from remeasurement included in our statements of operations were $0.5 million. we also record gains or losses in the income statement when a transaction with a third party, denominated in a currency other than the entity functional currency, is settled and the functional currency cash flows realized are more or less than expected based upon the exchange rate in effect when the transaction was initiated. we believe that these gains and losses are immaterial. 63risk factors in this report. we undertake no duty to update any forward-looking statements appearing in this report except as may be required by law. part i item 1. business the company we are the leading global owner, operator and developer of industrial real estate, focused on markets tied to global trade across the americas, europe and asia. as of december 31, 2011, we owned, or had investments in, on a consolidated basis or through unconsolidated investees, properties and development projects totaling approximately 600 million square feet (55.7 million square meters) in 22 countries. these properties are leased to approximately 4,500 customers, including third-party logistics providers, manufacturers, retailers, transportation companies and other enterprises. of the approximately 600 million square feet of our owned and managed portfolio as of december 31, 2011: approximately 559 million square feet were operating industrial distribution buildings with a gross book value of $42.8 billion that were 92.2% occupied; approximately 13 million square feet in our development portfolio with a total current investment of $1.0 billion and a total expected investment of $1.4 billion that were 43.6% leased; approximately 25 million square feet consist of properties we manage on behalf of third parties, properties in which we have an ownership interest but do not manage and non-industrial properties we own; and the largest customer and 25 largest customers accounted for 2.4% and 17.9%, respectively, of the annualized base rent of the combined portfolio. prologis, inc. (the reit ) is a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust. the reit is the sole general partner of prologis, l.p. (the operating partnership ). we operate the reit and the operating partnership as one enterprise. the management of the reit consists of the same members as the management of the operating partnership. these members are officers of the reit and employees of the operating partnership. as general partner with control of the operating partnership, the reit consolidates the operating partnership for financial reporting purposes, and the reit does not have significant assets other than its investment in the operating partnership. therefore, the assets and liabilities of the reit and the operating partnership are the same on their respective financial statements and we refer to the reit and the operating partnership collectively throughout this document as the company , prologis , we , our or us . the reit commenced operations as a fully integrated real estate company in 1997, elected to be taxed as a real estate investment trust (a reit ) under the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended ( internal revenue code ), and believes the current organization and method of operation will enable the reit to maintain its status as a reit. the operating partnership was also formed in 1997. we have investments in entities through a variety of ventures. we co-invest in entities that own multiple properties with private capital investors and provide asset and property management services to these entities. we refer to these entities as co-investment ventures. our ownership interest in these entities generally ranges from 10-50%. we also have investments in joint ventures, generally with one partner and that we do not manage. we refer to our investments in the entities accounted for on the equity method, both unconsolidated co-investment ventures and joint ventures as unconsolidated investees. our global headquarters are located at pier 1, bay 1, san francisco, california 94111 and our global operational headquarters are located at 4545 airport way, denver, colorado 80239. our other principal office locations are in amsterdam, the grand duchy of luxembourg, mexico city, shanghai, singapore and tokyo. 3 table of contents our internet website address is www.prologis.com. all reports required to be filed with the securities and exchange commission (the sec ) are available or may be accessed free of charge through the investor relations section of our internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. the reit common stock is listed on the new york stock exchange ( nyse ) under the ticker pld and is a component of the s&amp;p 500. merger of amb and prologis and acquisition of pepr on june 3, 2011, amb property corporation ( amb ) completed the merger with prologis, a maryland reit ( prologis ) in which prologis shareholders received 0.4464 of a share of common stock of amb for each outstanding common share of beneficial interest in prologis (the merger). following the merger, amb changed its name to prologis, inc. in the merger, amb was the legal acquirer and prologis was the accounting acquirer. in may 2011, we also acquired a controlling interest in and began consolidating prologis european properties ( pepr ) (the pepr acquisition ). we have recorded the purchase price allocations for both the merger ($5.9 billion) and pepr acquisition ($1.6 billion) in our december 31, 2011 consolidated balance sheet. our results for 2011 reflect approximately seven months of the impact of the merger and the pepr acquisition. therefore, period to period comparisons may not be meaningful. see note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 for more information relating to both the merger and pepr acquisition. investment strategy we believe that gross domestic product ( gdp ) growth and growth in global trade are important drivers of demand for our product. trade and gdp are correlated as higher levels of investment, production and consumption within a globalized economy are consistent with increased levels of imports and exports. as the world produces and consumes more, we believe that the volume of global trade will continue to increase at a rate in excess of growth in global gdp. significant supply chain reconfiguration, obsolescence and customers preference to lease, rather than own, facilities also drive demand for quality distribution space. our investment strategy focuses on providing distribution and logistics space to customers whose businesses are tied to global trade and depend on the efficient movement of goods through the global supply chain to support global trade. we have a deep global presence with assets under management of $43.8 billion spanning 22 countries on four continents. our properties are primarily located in two main market categories, global markets and regional markets. global markets comprise approximately 30 of the largest markets tied to global trade. these markets feature large population centers with high per-capita consumption rates and are located near major airports, seaports and ground transportation systems. similar to global markets, regional markets benefit from large population centers but typically are not as tied to the global supply chain and are often less supply constrained. as of december 31, 2011, global and regional markets represented approximately 83% and 12%, respectively of our overall owned and managed platform (based on our share of net operating income of the properties). approximately 5% of our total portfolio falls in markets that we do not classify as global or regional markets. our investment strategy would be to exit these other markets over time. our portfolio allows us to have local market knowledge, construction expertise and a commitment to sustainable design. we are supported by a broad and diverse customer base, comprising relationships with multinational corporations that result in repeatable business. business strategy our business strategy focuses on three principal lines of business within two business segments, as follows: real estate operations segment rental operations - this represents the primary source of our core revenue, earnings and funds from operations (or ffo as defined in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition ). we collect rent from our customers under operating leases, including reimbursements for the vast majority of our operating costs. we seek to generate long-term internal growth in rents by maintaining a high occupancy rate at our properties, by controlling expenses and through contractual rent increases on existing space and renewals on rollover space, thus capitalizing on the economies of scale inherent in owning, operating and growing a large global portfolio. our rental income is diversified due to both our global presence and our broad customer base. we expect to increase overall rental income primarily through the leasing of space currently available in our properties. we believe that our regular maintenance programs, capital expenditure programs, energy management and sustainability programs create cost efficencies that provide a benefit to our customers as well as the company. capital deployment activities - our development and re-development activities support our rental operations and are therefore included with that line of business for segment reporting. we develop and re-develop industrial properties primarily in global and regional markets to meet our customers needs. within this line of business, we provide additional value creation by utilizing: (i) the land that we currently own in global and regional markets; (ii) the development expertise of our local personnel; (iii) our global customer relationships; and (iv) the demand for high quality distribution facilities in key markets. we seek to increase our rental income and the net asset value of the company, through the leasing of newly developed space, as well as through the acquisition of new properties. depending on several factors, we may develop properties directly or in co-investment ventures for long-term hold, for contribution into one of our co-investment ventures, or for sale to third parties. properties that we choose to contribute or sell may result in the recognition of gains or losses. generally, in the u.s., europe and japan we are developing directly while in emerging markets such as brazil, china and mexico we are developing with our private capital partners in a variety of co-investment ventures. private capital segment - we co-invest in properties with private capital investors through a variety of co-investment ventures. we have a direct and long-standing relationship with a significant number of institutional investors. we tailor industrial portfolios to investors specific 4 table of contents needs and deploy capital in both close-ended and open-ended structures, while providing complete portfolio management and financial reporting services. we generally own 10-50% in the ventures. we believe our co-investment in each of our ventures provides a strong alignment of interests with our co-investment partners interests. we generate revenues from our unconsolidated co-investment ventures by providing asset management and property management services. we may also earn revenues through additional services provided such as leasing, acquisition, construction, development, disposition, legal and tax services. depending on the structure of the venture and the returns provided to our partners, we may also earn revenues through incentive returns or promotes. we believe our co-investment program with private capital investors will continue to serve as a source of capital for new investments and provide revenues for our stockholders, as well as mitigate risk associated with our foreign currency exposure. we expect to grow this business with the formation of new ventures and by raising additional third-party capital in our existing ventures. our operating segments as discussed above, our current business strategy includes two operating segments: real estate operations, which includes our capital deployment activities, and private capital. our real estate operations segment represents the long-term ownership of industrial operating properties, including development activities. our private capital segment represents the long-term management of co-investment ventures and the properties they own. please see item 1a risk factors , our property information and market presence as presented in item 2. properties , a discussion of our segment results in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and our segment footnote note22 to our consolidated financial statements in item 8 for more information with regard to the investments and results of operations of our segments. competition the existence of competitively priced distribution space available in any market could have a material impact on our ability to rent space and on the rents that we can charge. to the extent we wish to acquire land for future development of properties in our real estate operations segment or dispose of land, we may compete with local, regional, and national developers. we also face competition from investment managers for institutional capital. we believe we have competitive advantages due to (i) our ability to respond quickly to customers needs for high-quality distribution space in key global distribution markets; (ii) our established relationships with key customers served by our local personnel; (iii) our ability to leverage our organizational structure to provide a single point of contact for our global customers through our global customer solutions team; (iv) our property management and leasing expertise; (v) our relationships and proven track record with current and prospective investors in our private capital business; (vi) our global experience in the development and management of industrial properties; (vii) the strategic locations of our land that we expect to develop; and (viii) our personnel who are experienced in the land entitlement process. customers we have developed a customer base that is diverse in terms of industry concentration and represents a broad spectrum of international, national, regional and local distribution space users. at december 31, 2011, in our real estate operations segment, we had 3,163 customers occupying 266.0 million square feet of distribution space. in the unconsolidated properties we manage, we had 2,476 customers occupying 249.3 million square feet of distribution space. in our real estate operations segment, our largest customer and 25 largest customers accounted for 0.6% and 7.2%, respectively, of our annualized base rent at december 31, 2011. within our global customer solutions team, we develop long-term relationships with our customers and understand their business and needs, serving as their strategic partner for real estate on a global basis. keeping in close contact with customers and focusing on exceptional customer service sets us apart from other real estate providers as much more than a landlord. we believe that what we offer in terms of scope, scale and quality of assets is unique. our in-depth knowledge of our markets helps us stay ahead of trends and create forward-thinking solutions for their distribution networks. this depth of customer knowledge results in greater retention and expanded service, which garners additional business from the same customer across multiple geographies. approximately 50.0 % of our annual base rent is derived from customers who lease from us in more than one location and more than one country. in our private capital segment, we consider our private capital investors to be our customers. as of december 31, 2011, we partnered with 117 investors, several of which invest in multiple funds. employees we employ 1,457 persons in our entire organization. our employees work in four countries in the americas (925 persons), in 15 countries in europe (345 persons) and in three countries in asia (187 persons). of the total, we have assigned 862 employees to our real estate operations segment and 67 employees to our private capital segment. we have 528 employees who work in corporate and support positions who are not assigned to a segment who may assist with segment activities. we believe our relationships with our employees are good. our employees are not organized under collective bargaining agreements, although some of our employees in europe are represented by statutory works councils and benefit from applicable labor agreements. management overview at the time of the merger, we established key strategic priorities to guide our path over the next two years. these priorities are: to align our portfolio with our investment strategy while serving the needs of our customers; 5 table of contents to strengthen our financial position and build one of the top balance sheets in the reit industry; to streamline our private capital business and position it for substantial growth; to improve the utilization of our low yielding assets; and to build the most effective and efficient organization in the reit industry and to become the employer of choice among top professionals interested in real estate as a career. align our portfolio with our investment strategy subsequent to the merger, we performed a comprehensive review of our owned and managed portfolio, and categorized the portfolio into three main segments global, regional and other markets. global markets represent approximately 83% of our overall owned and managed platform (based on our share of net operating income of the properties). regional markets represent 12% of our total owned and managed platform. we intend to hold only the highest quality class-a product in our regional markets. we also own a small number of assets in other markets, which account for 5% of our owned and managed platform and that we plan to exit from in an orderly fashion in the next few years. by segmenting our markets in this manner, we were able to construct a strategy that includes culling the portfolio for buildings and potentially submarkets that are no longer a strategic fit for the company. we expect to use the proceeds from dispositions to pay down debt and to recycle capital into new development projects or strategic acquisitions. strengthen our financial position we intend to further strengthen our financial position by lowering our financial risk and currency exposure and building one of the strongest balance sheets in the reit industry. we expect to lower our financial risk by reducing leverage and maintaining staggered debt maturities, which will provide us with more financial flexibility and allow continued access to debt capital markets. this financial flexibility will position us to capitalize on market opportunities across the entire business cycle as they become available. we expect to lower our currency exposure by owning assets outside the u.s. primarily in co-investment ventures in which we maintain an ownership interest and provide services generating private capital revenue. we will accomplish this through contributions and sales to our existing and newly formed co-investment ventures. in addition, we expect that new development projects, particularly in emerging markets such as brazil, china and mexico, will be done in conjunction with our private capital partners. we will also reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange fluctuations by borrowing in local currencies when appropriate. streamline private capital business we are rationalizing our private capital business in conjunction with our private capital investors. some of our co-investment ventures have fee structures that do not adequately compensate us for the services we provide. therefore, we may terminate or restructure certain of these co-investment ventures. in other cases, we may combine some co-investment ventures to gain operational efficiencies. in every case, however, we will work very closely with our partners and venture investors who will be active participants in these decisions. we plan to grow our private capital business with the deployment of the private capital commitments we have already raised, formation of new co-investment ventures and raising incremental capital for our existing co-investment ventures. improve the utilization of our low yielding assets we plan to increase the value of our low yielding assets by stabilizing our operating portfolio to its historical average of 95% leased, completing the build-out and lease-up of our development projects as well as monetizing our land through development or sale to third parties. build the most effective and efficient organization in the reit industry and become the employer of choice among top professionals interested in real estate as a career we have identified more than $115 million of merger cost synergies on an annualized basis, as compared to the combined expenses of amb and prologis on a pre-merger basis. these synergies include gross general and administrative savings, reduced global line of credit facility fees and lower amortization of non real estate assets. we believe we have realized approximately 90% of these synergies already and expect to realize the full amount by year - end 2012. in addition, we are in the process of implementing a new enterprise wide system that will include a property management/billing system, a human resources system, a general ledger and accounting system and a data warehouse. in connection with this implementation, we are striving to utilize the most effective global business processes with the enhanced system functionality. we have implemented two new compensation plans that we believe will better align employees compensation to our performance. we believe these efforts and others will help us with the attainment of this objective. see item 7 management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for a discussion of our 2011 results and progress attaining the objectives outlined above. code of ethics and business conduct we maintain a code of ethics and business conduct applicable to our board and all of our officers and employees, including the principal co-executive officers, the principal financial officer and the principal accounting officer, or persons performing similar functions. a copy of our code of ethics and business conduct is available on our website, www.prologis.com. in addition to being accessible through our website, copies of our code of ethics and business conduct can be obtained, free of charge, upon written request to investor relations, pier 1, bay 1, san francisco, california 94111. any amendments to or waivers of our code of ethics and business conduct that apply to the principal 6 table of contents executive officers, the principal financial officer, or the principal accounting officer, or persons performing similar functions, and that relate to any matter enumerated in item 406(b) of regulation s-k, will be disclosed on our website. environmental matters we are exposed to various environmental risks that may result in unanticipated losses and affect our operating results and financial condition. either the previous owners or we subjected a majority of the properties we have acquired, including land, to environmental reviews. while some of these assessments have led to further investigation and sampling, none of the environmental assessments has revealed an environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see note 21 to our consolidated financial statements in item 8 and item 1a. risk factors . insurance coverage we carry insurance coverage on our properties. we determine the type of coverage and the policy specifications and limits based on what we deem to be the risks associated with our ownership of properties and our business operations in specific markets. such coverages include property damage and rental loss insurance resulting from such perils as fire, additional perils as covered under an extended coverage policy, named windstorm, flood, earthquake and terrorism; commercial general liability insurance; and environmental insurance. insurance is maintained through a combination of commercial insurance, self insurance and through a wholly-owned captive insurance entity. we believe that our insurance coverage contains policy specifications and insured limits that are customary for similar properties, business activities and markets and we believe our properties are adequately insured. however, an uninsured loss could result in loss of capital investment and anticipated revenues and earnings. see further discussion in item 1a. risk factors . item 1a. risk factors our operations and structure involve various risks that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, distributable cash flow and value of our securities. these risks include, among others: general disruptions in the global capital and credit markets may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. global market and economic conditions have been challenging with tighter credit conditions and slower growth in most major economies during the last few years. although signs of recovery may exist, there are continued concerns about the systemic impact of inflation, the availability and cost of credit, a lagging real estate market and geopolitical issues that contribute to increased market volatility and uncertain expectations for the global economy. to the extent there is turmoil in the financial markets, it has the potential to materially affect the value of our properties and investments in our unconsolidated investees, the availability or the terms of financing that we and our unconsolidated investees have or may anticipate utilizing, our ability and that of our unconsolidated investees to make principal and interest payments on, or refinance any outstanding debt when due and may impact the ability of our customers to enter into new leasing transactions or satisfy rental payments under existing leases. the market volatility over the last several years has made the valuation of our properties and those of our unconsolidated investees more difficult. there may be significant uncertainty in the valuation, or in the stability of the value, of our properties and those of our unconsolidated investees, that could result in a decrease in the value of our properties and those of our unconsolidated investees. as a result, we may not be able to recover the current carrying amount of our investments in real estate properties, including our unconsolidated investees, which may require us to recognize an impairment charge in earnings in addition to the charges we previously recognized. any additional, continued or recurring disruptions in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities. as a global company, we are subject to social, political and economic risks of doing business in many countries. we conduct a significant portion of our business and employ a substantial number of people outside of the united states. during 2011, we generated approximately 41.9% or $642 million of our revenue from operations outside the united states. circumstances and developments related to international operations that could negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations include, but are not limited to, the following factors: difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations in certain regions; differing employment practices and labor issues; local businesses and cultural factors that differ from our usual standards and practices; volatility in currencies; currency restrictions, which may prevent the transfer of capital and profits to the united states; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and other laws; potentially adverse tax consequences; 7 table of contents the responsibility of complying with multiple and potentially conflicting laws, e.g., with respect to corrupt practices, employment and licensing; the impact of regional or country-specific business cycles and economic instability; political instability, uncertainty over property rights, civil unrest, drug trafficking, political activism or the continuation or escalation of terrorist or gang activities (particularly with respect to our operations in mexico); foreign ownership restrictions with respect to operations in countries; and access to capital may be more restricted, or unavailable on favorable terms or at all in certain locations. our global growth (including growth in new regions in the united states) also subjects us to certain risks, including risks associated with funding increasing headcount, integrating new offices, and establishing effective controls and procedures to regulate the operations of new offices and to monitor compliance with regulations such as the foreign corrupt practices act, the uk bribery act and similar laws. although we have committed substantial resources to expand our global platform, if we are unable to successfully manage the risks associated with our global business or to adequately manage operational fluctuations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. in addition, our international operations and, specifically, the ability of our non-u.s. subsidiaries to dividend or otherwise transfer cash among our subsidiaries, including transfers of cash to pay interest and principal on our debt, may be affected by currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations and potentially adverse tax consequences, among other things. the depreciation in the value of the foreign currency in countries where we have a significant investment may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. we have pursued, and intend to continue to pursue, growth opportunities in international markets where the u.s. dollar is not the functional currency. at december 31, 2011, approximately 43.5% or $12.1 billion of our total assets are invested in a currency other than the u.s. dollar, primarily the euro, japanese yen and british pound sterling. as a result, we are subject to foreign currency risk due to potential fluctuations in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the u.s. dollar. a significant change in the value of the foreign currency of one or more countries where we have a significant investment may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, debt covenant ratios and results of operations. although we attempt to mitigate adverse effects by borrowing under debt agreements denominated in foreign currencies and, on occasion and when deemed appropriate, using derivative contracts, there can be no assurance that those attempts to mitigate foreign currency risk will be successful. real estate investments are not as liquid as certain other types of assets, which may reduce economic returns to investors. real estate investments are not as liquid as certain other types of investments and this lack of liquidity may limit our ability to react promptly to changes in economic or other conditions. in addition, significant expenditures associated with real estate investments, such as secured mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs, are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from the investments. like other companies qualifying as reits under the internal revenue code, we are only able to hold property for sale in the ordinary course of business through taxable reit subsidiaries in order to not incur punitive taxation on any tax gain from the sale of such property. while we may dispose of certain properties that have been held for investment in order to generate liquidity, if we do not satisfy certain safe harbors or we believe there is too much risk of incurring the punitive tax on any tax gain from the sale, we may not pursue such sales. in the event that we do not have sufficient cash available to us through our operations or available credit facilities to continue operating our business as usual, we may need to find alternative ways to increase our liquidity. such alternatives may include, without limitation, divesting ourselves of properties, whether or not they otherwise meet our strategic objectives to keep in the long term, at less than optimal terms, incurring debt, entering into leases with our customers at lower rental rates or less than optimal terms or entering into lease renewals with our existing customers without an increase in rental rates at turnover. there can be no assurance, however, that such alternative ways to increase our liquidity will be available to us. additionally, taking such measures to increase our liquidity may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, our ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities. risks related to our business general economic conditions and other events or occurrences that affect areas in which our properties are geographically concentrated, may impact financial results. we are exposed to general economic conditions, local, regional, national and international economic conditions and other events and occurrences that affect the markets in which we own properties. our operating performance is further impacted by the economic conditions of the specific markets in which we have concentrations of properties. as of december 31, 2011, approximately 23.0% of our consolidated operating properties or $4.9 billion (based on investment before depreciation) are located in california, which represented 18.8% of the aggregate square footage of our operating properties and 20.8% of our annualized base rent. our revenue from, and the value of, our properties located in california may be affected by local real estate conditions (such as an oversupply of or reduced demand for industrial properties) and the local economic climate. business layoffs, downsizing, industry 8 table of contents slowdowns, changing demographics and other factors may adversely impact california economic climate. because of the number of properties we have located in california, a downturn in california economy or real estate conditions could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities. in addition to california, we also have significant holdings (defined as more than 3% of total investment before depreciation) in operating properties in certain global and regional markets located in chicago, dallas/fort worth, france, japan, new jersey/new york city, south florida and the united kingdom. our operating performance could be adversely affected if conditions become less favorable in any of the markets in which we have a concentration of properties. conditions such as an oversupply of distribution space or a reduction in demand for distribution space, among other factors, may impact operating conditions. any material oversupply of distribution space or material reduction in demand for distribution space could adversely affect our results of operations, distributable cash flow and the value of our securities. in addition, our unconsolidated investees have concentrations of properties in the same markets mentioned above, as well as in markets in central and eastern pennsylvania, germany, mexico, poland and reno and are subject to the economic conditions in those markets. a number of our properties are located in areas that are known to be subject to earthquake activity. u.s. properties located in active seismic areas include properties in the san francisco bay area, los angeles, and seattle. international properties located in active seismic areas include japan and mexico. we generally carry earthquake insurance on our properties located in areas historically subject to seismic activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles if we believe it is commercially reasonable. we evaluate our earthquake insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants and in some specific instances have elected to self insure our earthquake exposure based on this analysis. we have elected not to carry earthquake insurance for wholly owned assets in japan based on this analysis. further, a number of our properties are located in areas that are known to be subject to hurricane and/or flood risk. we carry hurricane and flood hazard insurance on all of our properties located in areas historically subject to such activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles if we believe it is commercially reasonable. we evaluate our insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants. our insurance coverage does not include all potential losses. we and our unconsolidated investees currently carry insurance coverage including property damage and rental loss insurance resulting from certain perils such as fire and additional perils as covered under an extended coverage policy, namely windstorm, flood, earthquake and terrorism; commercial general liability insurance; and environmental insurance, as appropriate for the markets where each of our properties and business operations are located. the insurance coverage contains policy specifications and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties, business activities and markets. we believe our properties and the properties of our unconsolidated investees are adequately insured. however, there are certain losses, including losses from floods, earthquakes, acts of war, acts of terrorism or riots, that are not generally insured against or that are not generally fully insured against because it is not deemed economically feasible or prudent to do so. if an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs with respect to one or more of our properties, we could experience a significant loss of capital invested and future revenues in these properties and could potentially remain obligated under any recourse debt associated with the property. furthermore, we cannot be sure that our insurance companies will be able to continue to offer products with sufficient coverage at commercially reasonable rates. if we experience a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds insured limits with respect to one or more of our properties or if our insurance companies fail to meet their coverage commitments to us in the event of an insured loss, then we could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties, as well as the anticipated future revenue from those properties and, if there is recourse debt, then we would remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the properties. any such losses or higher insurance costs could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities. investments in real estate properties are subject to risks that could adversely affect our business. investments in real estate properties are subject to varying degrees of risk. while we seek to minimize these risks through geographic diversification of our portfolio, market research and our property management capabilities, these risks cannot be eliminated. some of the factors that may affect real estate values include: local conditions, such as an oversupply of distribution space or a reduction in demand for distribution space in an area; the attractiveness of our properties to potential customers; competition from other available properties; increasing costs of rehabilitating, repositioning, renovating and making improvements to our properties; our ability to provide adequate maintenance of, and insurance on, our properties; our ability to control rents and variable operating costs; 9 table of contents governmental regulations, including zoning, usage and tax laws and changes in these laws; and potential liability under, and changes in, environmental, zoning and other laws. our investments are concentrated in the industrial distribution sector and our business would be adversely affected by an economic downturn in that sector. our investments in real estate assets are primarily concentrated in the industrial distribution sector. this concentration may expose us to the risk of economic downturns in this sector to a greater extent than if our business activities were more diversified. our operating results and distributable cash flow will depend on the continued generation of lease revenues from customers and we may be unable to lease vacant space or renew leases or re-lease space on favorable terms as leases expire. our operating results and distributable cash flow would be adversely affected if a significant number of our customers were unable to meet their lease obligations. we are also subject to the risk that, upon the expiration of leases for space located in our properties, leases may not be renewed by existing customers, the space may not be re-leased to new customers or the terms of renewal or re-leasing (including the cost of required renovations or concessions to customers) may be less favorable to us than current lease terms. our competitors may offer space at rental rates below current market rates or below the rental rates we currently charge our customers, we may lose potential customers, and we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we currently charge in order to retain customers when our customers leases expire. in the event of default by a significant number of customers, we may experience delays and incur substantial costs in enforcing our rights as landlord, and may be unable to re-lease spaces. a customer may experience a downturn in its business, which may cause the loss of the customer or may weaken its financial condition, resulting in the customer failure to make rental payments when due or requiring a restructuring that might reduce cash flow from the lease. in addition, a customer may seek the protection of bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws, which could result in the rejection and termination of such customer lease and thereby cause a reduction in our available cash flow. if we decide to contribute or sell properties to an unconsolidated investee or third parties to generate proceeds, we may not be successful. we may contribute or sell properties to certain of our unconsolidated investees or third parties on a case-by-case basis. our ability to sell properties on advantageous terms is affected by competition from other owners of properties that are trying to dispose of their properties; market conditions, including the capitalization rates applicable to our properties; and other factors beyond our control. if our competitors sell assets similar to assets we intend to divest in the same markets and/or at valuations below our valuations for comparable assets, we may be unable to divest our assets at favorable pricing or on favorable terms or at all. the unconsolidated investee or third parties who might acquire our properties may need to have access to debt and equity capital, in the private and public markets, in order to acquire properties from us. should they have limited or no access to capital on favorable terms, then dispositions could be delayed. if we are unable to generate proceeds through property sales we may have to delay our deleveraging plans, which may result in adverse effects on our liquidity, distributable cash flow, debt covenant ratios, and the value of our securities. we may acquire properties, which involves risks that could adversely affect our operating results and the value of our securities. we may acquire industrial properties. the acquisition of properties involves risks, including the risk that the acquired property will not perform as anticipated and that any actual costs for rehabilitation, repositioning, renovation and improvements identified in the pre-acquisition due diligence process will exceed estimates. when we acquire properties, we may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local economy, forging new business relationships in the area and unfamiliarity with local government and permitting procedures. additionally, there is, and it is expected there will continue to be, significant competition for properties that meet our investment criteria as well as risks associated with obtaining financing for acquisition activities. our real estate development strategies may not be successful. our real estate development strategy is focused on monetizing land in the future through sales to third parties, development of industrial properties to hold for long-term investment or contribution or sale to an unconsolidated investee, depending on market conditions, our liquidity needs and other factors. we may expand investment in our development, renovation and redevelopment business and we will complete the build-out and leasing of our development platform. we may also develop, renovate and redevelop properties within existing or newly formed development co-investment ventures. the real estate development, renovation and redevelopment business involves significant risks that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities, which include the following risks: we may not be able to obtain financing for development projects on favorable terms or at all and complete construction on schedule or within budget, resulting in increased debt service and construction costs and delays in leasing the properties and generating cash flow; we may not be able to obtain, or may experience delays in obtaining, all necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other governmental permits and authorizations; we may seek to sell certain land parcels and not be able to find a third party to acquire such land or the sales price will not allow us to recover our investment, resulting in additional impairment charges; 10 table of contents development opportunities that we explore may be abandoned and the related investment impaired; the properties may perform below anticipated levels, producing cash flow below budgeted amounts; we may not be able to lease properties on favorable terms or at all; construction costs, total investment amounts and our share of remaining funding may exceed our estimates and projects may not be completed, delivered or stabilized as planned; we may not be able to attract third party investment in new development co-investment ventures or sufficient customer demand for our product; we may not be able to capture the anticipated enhanced value created by our redevelopment projects on expected timetables or at all; we may experience delays (temporary or permanent) if there is public opposition to our activities; and substantial renovation, new development and redevelopment activities, regardless of their ultimate success, typically require a significant amount of management time and attention, diverting their attention from our day-to-day operations. we are exposed to various environmental risks that may result in unanticipated losses that could affect our operating results and financial condition. under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner, developer or operator of real estate may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances. the costs of removal or remediation of such substances could be substantial. such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release or presence of such hazardous substances. in addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages based on personal injury, property damage or other costs, including investigation and clean-up costs, resulting from the environmental contamination. environmental laws in some countries, including the united states, also require that owners or operators of buildings containing asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos, adequately inform or train those who may come into contact with asbestos and undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, in the event that asbestos is disturbed during building renovation or demolition. these laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos. some of our properties are known to contain asbestos-containing building materials. in addition, some of our properties are leased or have been leased, in part, to owners and operators of businesses that use, store or otherwise handle petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, creating a potential for the release of such hazardous or toxic substances. further, certain of our properties are on, adjacent to or near other properties that have contained or currently contain petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, or upon which others have engaged, are engaged or may engage in activities that may release such hazardous or toxic substances. from time to time, we may acquire properties, or interests in properties, with known adverse environmental conditions where we believe that the environmental liabilities associated with these conditions are quantifiable and that the acquisition will yield a superior risk-adjusted return. in connection with certain divested properties, we have agreed to remain responsible for, and to bear the cost of, remediating or monitoring certain environmental conditions on the properties. we cannot give any assurance that other such conditions do not exist or may not arise in the future. the presence of such substances on our real estate properties could adversely affect our ability to lease, develop or sell such properties or to borrow using such properties as collateral and may have an adverse effect on our distributable cash flow. we are subject to risks and liabilities in connection with forming co-investment ventures, investing in new or existing co-investment ventures, attracting third party investment and investing in and managing properties through co-investment ventures. as of december 31, 2011, we have an investment in approximately 277.8 million square feet held through unconsolidated investees. our organizational documents do not limit the amount of available funds that we may invest in unconsolidated investees, and we may and currently intend to develop and acquire properties through co-investment ventures and investments in other entities when warranted by the circumstances. however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to form new co-investment ventures, attract third party investment or make additional investments in new or existing co-investment ventures, successfully develop or acquire properties through unconsolidated entities, or realize value from such unconsolidated entities. our inability to do so may have an adverse effect on our growth, our earnings and the market price of our securities. our partners in our unconsolidated investments may share certain approval rights over major decisions and some partners may manage the properties in the unconsolidated investees. our unconsolidated investments involve certain risks, including: if our partners fail to fund their share of any required capital contributions, then we may choose to contribute such capital; 11 table of contents our partners might have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals that would affect our ability to operate the property; the venture or other governing agreements often restrict the transfer of an interest in the co-investment venture or may otherwise restrict our ability to sell the interest when we desire or on advantageous terms; our relationships with our partners are generally contractual in nature and may be terminated or dissolved under the terms of the agreements, and in such event, we may not continue to manage or invest in the assets underlying such relationships resulting in reduced fee revenue or causing a need to purchase such interest to continue ownership; and disputes between us and our partners may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and directors from focusing their time and effort on our business and result in subjecting the properties owned by the applicable co-investment venture to additional risk. we generally seek to maintain sufficient influence over our unconsolidated investees to permit us to achieve our business objectives; however, we may not be able to do so, and the occurrence of one or more of the events described above could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities. contingent or unknown liabilities could adversely affect our financial condition. we have acquired and may in the future acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities. as a result, if a liability were asserted against us based upon ownership of any of these entities or properties, then we might have to pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely affect our cash flow. contingent or unknown liabilities with respect to entities or properties acquired might include: liabilities for environmental conditions; losses in excess of our insured coverage; accrued but unpaid liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; tax, legal and regulatory liabilities; and claims for indemnification by the general partners, officers and directors and others indemnified by the former owners of our properties. risks related to financing and capital we face risks associated with the use of debt to fund our business activities, including refinancing and interest rate risks, and our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected if we are unable to make required payments on our debt or are unable to refinance our debt. we are subject to risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest. there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any maturing indebtedness, that such refinancing would be on terms as favorable as the terms of the maturing indebtedness, or that we will be able to otherwise obtain funds by selling assets or raising equity to make required payments on maturing indebtedness. if we are unable to refinance our indebtedness at maturity or meet our payment obligations, the amount of our distributable cash flow and our financial condition would be adversely affected and, if the maturing debt is secured, the lender may foreclose on the property securing such indebtedness. our global senior credit agreement, yen-based credit agreement and certain other debt bears interest at variable rates. increases in interest rates would increase our interest expense under these agreements. in addition, our unconsolidated investees may be unable to refinance indebtedness or meet payment obligations, which may impact our distributable cash flow and our financial condition and/or we may be required to recognize impairment charges of our investments. covenants in our credit agreements could limit our flexibility and breaches of these covenants could adversely affect our financial condition. the terms of our various credit agreements, including our global senior credit agreement and yen-based credit agreement, the indentures under which our senior notes are issued and other note agreements, require us to comply with a number of customary financial covenants, such as maintaining debt service coverage, leverage ratios, fixed charge ratios and other operating covenants including maintaining insurance coverage. these covenants may limit our flexibility in our operations, and breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable indebtedness. if we default under the covenant provisions and are unable to cure the default, refinance the indebtedness or meet payment obligations, the amount of our distributable cash flow and our financial condition could be adversely affected. adverse changes in our credit ratings could negatively affect our financing activity. the credit ratings of our senior unsecured notes and preferred stock are based on our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position and other factors employed by the credit rating agencies in their rating analyses of us. our credit ratings can affect 12 table of contents the amount of capital we can access, as well as the terms and pricing of any debt we may incur. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings, and in the event our credit ratings are downgraded, we would likely incur higher borrowing costs and may encounter difficulty in obtaining additional financing. also, a downgrade in our credit ratings may trigger additional payments or other negative consequences under our current and future credit facilities and debt instruments. adverse changes in our credit ratings could negatively impact our refinancing and other capital market activities, our ability to manage debt maturities, our future growth, our financial condition, the market price of our securities, and our development and acquisition activity. we are dependent on external sources of capital. in order to qualify as a reit, we are required each year to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our reit taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends-paid deduction and by excluding any net capital gain) and we may be subject to tax to the extent our income is not fully distributed. while historically we have satisfied these distribution requirements by making cash distributions to our stockholders, we may choose to satisfy these requirements by making distributions of cash or other property, including, in limited circumstances, our own stock. for distributions with respect to taxable years ending on or before december 31, 2011, and in some cases declared as late as december 31, 2012, the reit can satisfy up to 90% of the distribution requirements discussed above through the distribution of shares of our stock if certain conditions are met. assuming we continue to satisfy these distribution requirements with cash, we may not be able to fund all future capital needs, including acquisition and development activities, from cash retained from operations and may have to rely on third-party sources of capital. further, in order to maintain our reit status and not have to pay federal income and excise taxes, we may need to borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the reit distribution requirements even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings. these short-term borrowing needs could result from differences in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for federal income tax purposes, or the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt or amortization payments. our ability to access debt and equity capital on favorable terms or at all is dependent upon a number of factors, including general market conditions, the market perception of our growth potential, our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions and the market price of our securities. federal income tax risks our failure to qualify as a reit would have serious adverse consequences. the reit elected to be taxed as a reit under sections 856 through 860 of the internal revenue code, commencing with the taxable year ended december 31, 1997. we believe we have operated so as to qualify as a reit under the internal revenue code and believe that the current organization and method of operation comply with the rules and regulations promulgated under the internal revenue code to enable us to continue to qualify as a reit. however, it is possible that we are organized or have operated in a manner that would not allow us to qualify as a reit, or that our future operations could cause us to fail to qualify. qualification as a reit requires us to satisfy numerous requirements (some on an annual and others on a quarterly basis) established under highly technical and complex sections of the internal revenue code for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations, and involves the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. for example, in order to qualify as a reit, the reit must derive at least 95% of its gross income in any year from qualifying sources. in addition, we must pay dividends to our stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of the reit taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding capital gains) and must satisfy specified asset tests on a quarterly basis. the provisions of the internal revenue code and applicable treasury regulations regarding qualification as a reit are more complicated in our case because we hold assets through the operating partnership. if we fail to qualify as a reit in any taxable year, we will be required to pay federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on taxable income at regular corporate rates. unless we are entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from treatment as a reit for the four taxable years following the year in which we lost the qualification. if we lost our reit status, our net earnings would be significantly reduced for each of the years involved. furthermore, we own a direct or indirect interest in certain subsidiary reits which elected to be taxed as reits under sections 856 through 860 of the internal revenue code. provided that each subsidiary reit qualifies as a reit, our interest in such subsidiary reit will be treated as a qualifying real estate asset for purposes of the reit asset tests, and any dividend income or gains derived by us from such subsidiary reit will generally be treated as income that qualifies for purposes of the reit gross income tests. to qualify as a reit, the subsidiary reit must independently satisfy all of the reit qualification requirements. if such subsidiary reit were to fail to qualify as a reit, and certain relief provisions did not apply, it would be treated as a regular taxable corporation and its income would be subject to united states federal income tax. in addition, a failure of the subsidiary reit to qualify as a reit would have an adverse effect on our ability to comply with the reit income and asset tests, and thus our ability to qualify as a reit. certain property transfers may generate prohibited transaction income, resulting in a penalty tax on gain attributable to the transaction. from time to time, we may transfer or otherwise dispose of some of our properties, including by contributing properties to our co-investment ventures. under the internal revenue code, any gain resulting from transfers of properties we hold as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is treated as income from a prohibited transaction subject to a 100% penalty tax. we do not believe that our transfers or disposals of property or our contributions of properties into our co-investment ventures are prohibited transactions. however, whether property is held for investment purposes is a question of fact that depends on all the facts and circumstances surrounding the particular transaction. the internal revenue service may contend that certain transfers or dispositions of properties by us or contributions of properties into our co-investment ventures are prohibited transactions. while we believe that the internal revenue service 13 table of contents would not prevail in any such dispute, if the internal revenue service were to argue successfully that a transfer, disposition, or contribution of property constituted a prohibited transaction, we would be required to pay a 100% penalty tax on any gain allocable to us from the prohibited transaction. in addition, income from a prohibited transaction might adversely affect our ability to satisfy the income tests for qualification as a reit. legislative or regulatory action could adversely affect us. in recent years, numerous legislative, judicial and administrative changes have been made to the federal income tax taws applicable to investments in reits and similar entities. additional changes to tax laws are likely to continue to occur in the future, and may impact our taxation or that of our stockholders. risks relating to the merger the combined company may be unable to integrate its businesses successfully and realize the anticipated synergies and related benefits of the merger or do so within the anticipated timeframe. on june 3, 2011, amb and prologis completed the merger. the merger involved a combination of two companies that previously operated as independent public companies, each of which operated its own private capital platform focused on the industrial real estate sector and served as the sponsor or manager of, or in a similar capacity with respect to, numerous private equity investment vehicles. the combined company is required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations of the constituent companies. potential difficulties the combined company may encounter in the integration process include the following: the inability to successfully combine the businesses in a manner that permits the combined company to achieve the cost savings anticipated to result from the merger; the complexities associated with managing the combined businesses out of several different locations and integrating personnel and systems from the two companies; the additional complexities of combining two companies with different histories, cultures, regulatory restrictions, markets and customer bases; the failure to retain key employees of either of the two companies; and performance shortfalls as a result of the diversion of management attention caused by completing the merger. for all these reasons, it is possible that the integration process could result in the distraction of our management, the disruption of our ongoing business or the diversion of our resources to the integration process as we attempt to complete the integration process, any of which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to security holders and the market price of our securities. other risks risks associated with our dependence on key personnel. we depend on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. from time to time, our personnel and their roles may change. in connection with the completion of the merger, there were changes to our personnel and their roles. while we believe that we have retained our key talent and can find suitable employees to meet our personnel needs, the loss of key personnel, any change in their roles, or the limitation of their availability could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to security holders and the market price of our securities. if we are unable to continue to attract and retain our executive officers, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain key employees become more expensive, our performance and competitive position could be materially adversely affected. compliance or failure to comply with the americans with disabilities act and other similar regulations could result in substantial costs. under the americans with disabilities act, places of public accommodation must meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the award of damages to private litigants. if we are required to make unanticipated expenditures to comply with the americans with disabilities act, including removing access barriers, then our cash flow and the amounts available to make distributions and payments to our security holders may be adversely affected. our properties are also subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life-safety requirements. we could incur fines or private damage awards if we fail to comply with these requirements. while we believe that our properties are currently in material compliance with these regulatory requirements, the requirements may change or new requirements may be imposed that could require significant unanticipated expenditures by us that will affect our cash flow and results of operations. we are subject to governmental regulations and actions that affect operating results and financial condition. many laws, including tax laws, and governmental regulations apply to us, our unconsolidated investees and our properties. changes in these laws and governmental regulations, or their interpretation by agencies or the courts, could occur, which might affect our ability to conduct business. 14 table of contents our business could be adversely impacted if we have deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting. the design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors, misstatements or misrepresentations. while management will continue to review the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, there can be no guarantee that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. deficiencies, including any material weakness, in our internal control over financial reporting which may occur in the future could result in misstatements of our results of operations, restatements of our financial statements, a decline in the price of our securities, or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. we are exposed to the potential impacts of future climate change and climate change related risks. we consider that we are exposed to potential physical risks from possible future changes in climate. our distribution facilities may be exposed to rare catastrophic weather events, such as severe storms and/or floods. if the frequency of extreme weather events increases due to climate change, our exposure to these events could increase. we do not currently consider ourselves to be exposed to regulatory risks related to climate change, as our operations do not emit a significant amount of greenhouse gases. however, we may be adversely impacted as a real estate developer in the future by potential impacts to the supply chain and/or stricter energy efficiency standards for buildings. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and foreign-exchange related variability and earnings volatility on our foreign investments. we have used certain derivative financial instruments, primarily foreign currency put option and forward contracts, to reduce our foreign currency market risk, as we deem appropriate. we have also used interest rate swap agreements to reduce our interest rate market risk. we do not use financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes and all financial instruments are entered into in accordance with established policies and procedures. we monitor our market risk exposures using a sensitivity analysis. our sensitivity analysis estimates the exposure to market risk sensitive instruments assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse change in year end interest rates. the results of the sensitivity analysis are summarized below. the sensitivity analysis is of limited predictive value. as a result, our ultimate realized gains or losses with respect to interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations will depend on the exposures that arise during a future period, hedging strategies at the time and the prevailing interest and foreign currency exchange rates. interest rate risk our interest rate risk management objective is to limit the impact of future interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows. to achieve this objective, we primarily borrow on a fixed rate basis for longer-term debt issuances. at december 31, 2011, we have &yen;61.1 billion ($788.4 million) in tmk bond agreements and a &yen;12.5 billion ($161.3 million) term loan with variable interest rates. we have entered into interest rate swap agreements to fix the interest rate on &yen;21.8 billion ($281.2 million as of december 31, 2011) of the tmk bonds and the entire term loan for the term of the agreements. at december 31, 2011, we have also entered into interest rate swap agreements to fix the interest rate on 771.6 million ($1.0 billion) of secured debt, of which 743.6 million ($972.2 million) relates to pepr, with variable interest rates. in 2011, we had weighted average daily outstanding borrowings of $870.9 million on our variable rate credit facilities. based on the results of the sensitivity analysis, which assumed a 10% adverse change in interest rates, the estimated market risk exposure for the variable rate lines of credit was approximately $1.8 million of cash flow in 2011. 45 table of contents foreign currency risk foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. our primary exposure to foreign currency exchange rates relates to the translation of the net income and financial position of our foreign subsidiaries into u.s. dollars, principally euro, british pound sterling and yen. to mitigate our foreign currency exchange exposure, we borrow in the functional currency of the borrowing entity, when appropriate. we also may use foreign currency put option contracts to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with the projected net operating income of our foreign consolidated subsidiaries and unconsolidated investees. at december 31, 2011, we had no put option contracts outstanding and, therefore, we may experience fluctuations in our earnings as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we also have some exposure to movements in exchange rates related to certain intercompany loans we issue from time to time and we may use foreign currency forward contracts to manage these risks. at december 31, 2011, we had no forward contracts outstanding and, therefore, we may experience fluctuations in our earnings from the remeasurement of these intercompany loans due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates.risk factors in this report. we undertake no duty to update any forward-looking statements appearing in this report except as may be required by law. part i item 1. business the company we are the leading global owner, operator and developer of industrial real estate, focused on global and regional markets across the americas, europe and asia. as of december 31, 2012, on an owned and managed basis, we had properties and development projects totaling 554 million square feet (51.5 million square meters) in 21 countries. these properties are leased to approximately 4,500 customers, including third-party logistics providers, manufacturers, retailers, transportation companies, and other enterprises. of the 554 million square feet of our owned and managed portfolio as of december 31, 2012: 522 million square feet were in our operating portfolio with a gross book value of $40.1 billion that were 94.0% occupied; 22 million square feet were in our development portfolio with a total expected investment of $2.1 billion that were 50.8% leased; 10 million square feet consisted of properties in which we have an ownership interest but do not manage and other properties we own, including assets held for sale; and the largest customer and 25 largest customers accounted for 2.0% and 18.7%, respectively, of the annualized base rent. prologis, inc. commenced operations as a fully integrated real estate company in 1997, elected to be taxed as a reit under the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended ( internal revenue code ), and believes the current organization and method of operation will enable prologis, inc. to maintain its status as a reit. the operating partnership was also formed in 1997. we have investments in entities through a variety of ventures. we co-invest in entities that own multiple properties with private capital investors and provide asset and property management services to these entities. we refer to these entities as co-investment ventures. our ownership interest in these entities generally ranges from 15-50%. these entities may be consolidated or unconsolidated, depending on the structure, our partner participating and other rights and our level of control of the entity. the co-investment ventures may have one or more investors. we also have investments in joint ventures, generally with one partner and that we do not manage. we refer to our investments in the entities accounted for on the equity method, both unconsolidated co-investment ventures and joint ventures, as unconsolidated entities. our global headquarters are located at pier 1, bay 1, san francisco, california 94111 and our global operational headquarters are located at 4545 airport way, denver, colorado 80239. our other principal office locations are in amsterdam, the grand duchy of luxembourg, mexico city, shanghai, singapore and tokyo. our internet website address is www.prologis.com. all reports required to be filed with the securities and exchange commission (the sec ) are available or may be accessed free of charge through the investor relations section of our internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. the common stock of prologis, inc. is listed on the new york stock exchange ( nyse ) under the ticker pld and is a component of the s&amp;p 500. merger of amb and prologis and acquisition of pepr on june 3, 2011, amb property corporation ( amb ) completed a merger with prologis, a maryland reit ( prologis ) in which prologis shareholders received 0.4464 of a share of common stock of amb for each outstanding common share of beneficial interest in prologis (the merger ). in the merger, amb was the legal acquirer and prologis was the accounting acquirer. following the merger, amb changed its 4 table of contents name to prologis, inc. in may 2011, we also acquired a controlling interest in and began consolidating prologis european properties ( pepr ) (the pepr acquisition ). our results for 2011 reflect approximately seven months of the impact of the merger and the pepr acquisition. therefore, period to period comparisons may not be meaningful. see note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 for more information relating to both the merger and pepr acquisition. investment strategy we believe that gross domestic product ( gdp ) growth and growth in global trade are important drivers of demand for our product. trade and gdp are correlated as higher levels of investment, production and consumption within a globalized economy are consistent with increased levels of imports and exports. as the world produces and consumes more, we believe that the volume of global trade will continue to increase at a rate in excess of growth in global gdp. significant supply chain reconfiguration, obsolescence and customers preference to lease, rather than own, facilities also drive demand for quality distribution space. our investment strategy focuses on providing distribution and logistics space to customers whose businesses are tied to global trade and depend on the efficient movement of goods through the global supply chain to support global trade. we have a deep global presence with assets under management of $43.1 billion spanning 21 countries on four continents. our properties are primarily located in two main market categories, global markets and regional markets. global markets comprise approximately 30 of the largest markets tied to global trade. these markets feature large population centers with high per-capita consumption rates and are located near major airports, seaports and ground transportation systems. similar to global markets, regional markets benefit from large population centers but typically are not as tied to the global supply chain and are often less supply constrained. we intend to primarily hold only the highest quality class-a product in global and regional markets. as of december 31, 2012, global and regional markets represented approximately 83% and 12%, respectively of our overall owned and managed platform (based on our share of net operating income of the properties). we also own a small number of assets in other markets, which account for approximately 5% of our owned and managed platform, and from which we generally plan to exit from in an orderly fashion in the next few years, although we may continue to opportunistically invest in other markets. our portfolio allows us to have local market knowledge, construction expertise and a commitment to sustainable design. we are supported by a broad and diverse customer base, comprising relationships with multinational corporations that result in repeatable business. business strategy our business strategy includes two operating segments: real estate operations and private capital. we generate revenue, earnings, net operating income (calculated as rental income less rental expenses), funds from operations (or ffo as defined in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations ) and cash flows through our segments primarily through three lines of business, as follows: real estate operations segment rental operations - this represents the primary source of our core revenue, earnings and ffo. we collect rent from our customers under operating leases, including reimbursements for the vast majority of our operating costs. we seek to generate long-term internal growth in rental income by maintaining a high occupancy rate at our properties, by controlling expenses and through contractual rent increases on existing space and renewals on rollover space, thus capitalizing on the economies of scale inherent in owning, operating and growing a large global portfolio. our rental income is diversified due to both our global presence and our broad customer base. we expect to generate long-term internal growth in rents by increasing our occupancy rate and through rent increases on existing space and renewals on rollovers. we believe that our property management and leasing teams, regular maintenance programs, capital expenditure programs, energy management and sustainability programs create cost efficiencies, allowing us to leverage our global platform and provide flexible solutions for our customers as well as for us. capital deployment activities - our development and re-development activities support our rental operations and are therefore included with that line of business for segment reporting. we develop and re-develop industrial properties primarily in global and regional markets to meet our customers needs. within this line of business, we provide additional value creation by utilizing: (i) the land that we currently own in global and regional markets; (ii) the development expertise of our local personnel; (iii) our global customer relationships; and (iv) the demand for high quality distribution facilities in key markets. we seek to increase our rental income and the net asset value of the company through the leasing of newly developed space, as well as through the acquisition of new properties. depending on several factors, we may develop properties directly or in co-investment ventures for long-term hold, for contribution into one of our co-investment ventures, or for sale to third parties. properties that we choose to contribute or sell may result in the recognition of gains or losses. generally, in the united states, europe and japan we are developing directly while in emerging markets such as brazil, china and mexico we are developing with our private capital partners in a variety of co-investment ventures. private capital segment - we co-invest in properties with private capital investors through a variety of co-investment ventures. we have a direct and long-standing relationship with a significant number of institutional investors. we tailor industrial portfolios to investors specific needs and deploy capital in both close-ended and open-ended venture structures and other joint ventures, while providing complete portfolio management and financial reporting services. we generally own 15-50% in these ventures. we believe our co-investment in each of our ventures provides a strong alignment of interests with our co-investment partners interests. we generate revenues from our unconsolidated co-investment ventures by providing asset management and property management services. we may also earn revenues through additional services provided such as leasing, acquisition, construction, development, disposition, legal and tax services. depending on the structure of the venture and the returns provided to our partners, we may also earn revenues through incentive returns or promotes. we believe our co-investment program with private capital investors will continue to serve as a source of capital for new investments and provide revenues for 5 table of contents our stockholders, as well as mitigate risk associated with our foreign currency exposure. we expect to grow this business with the formation of new ventures, such as the two ventures discussed below under item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and by raising additional third-party capital in our existing ventures. our operating segments as discussed above, our current business strategy includes two operating segments: real estate operations, which includes our capital deployment activities, and private capital. please see item 1a risk factors , our property information and market presence as presented in item 2. properties , a discussion of our segment results in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and our segment footnote note 22 to our consolidated financial statements in item 8 for more information with regard to the investments and results of operations of our segments. competition the existence of competitively priced distribution space available in any market could have a material impact on our ability to rent space and on the rents that we can charge, which impacts both of our operating segments. to the extent we wish to acquire land for future development of properties in our real estate operations segment or dispose of land, we may compete with local, regional, and national developers. we also face competition from investment managers for institutional capital within our private capital segment. we believe we have competitive advantages due to (i) our ability to respond quickly to customers needs for high-quality distribution space in key global distribution markets; (ii) our established relationships with key customers served by our local personnel; (iii) our ability to leverage our organizational structure to provide a single point of contact for our global customers through our global customer solutions team; (iv) our property management and leasing expertise; (v) our relationships and proven track record with current and prospective investors in our private capital business; (vi) our global experience in the development and management of industrial properties; (vii) the strategic locations of our land that we expect to develop; and (viii) our personnel who are experienced in the land entitlement process. customers we have developed a customer base that is diverse in terms of industry concentration and represents a broad spectrum of international, national, regional and local distribution space users. at december 31, 2012, in our real estate operations segment, we had 3,832 customers occupying 296.5 million square feet of distribution space. in the unconsolidated properties we manage, we had 2,703 customers occupying 195.9 million square feet of distribution space. in our real estate operations segment, our largest customer and 25 largest customers accounted for 1.6% and 18.7%, respectively, of our annualized base rent at december 31, 2012. within our global customer solutions team, we develop long-term relationships with our customers and understand their business and needs, serving as their strategic partner for real estate on a global basis. keeping in close contact with customers and focusing on exceptional customer service sets us apart from other real estate providers as much more than a landlord. we believe that what we offer in terms of scope, scale and quality of assets is unique. our in-depth knowledge of our markets helps us stay ahead of trends and create forward-thinking solutions for their distribution networks. this depth of customer knowledge results in greater retention and expanded service, which garners additional business from the same customer across multiple geographies. in our real estate operations segment, approximately 50.0% of our annual base rent is derived from customers who lease from us in more than one location and more than one country. in our private capital segment, we consider our private capital investors to be our customers. as of december 31, 2012, we partnered with 107 investors, several of which invest in multiple ventures. employees we employ 1,445 persons in our entire organization. our employees work in four countries in the americas (875 persons), in 15 countries in europe (385 persons) and in three countries in asia (185 persons). of the total, we have assigned 885 employees to our real estate operations segment and 100 employees to our private capital segment. we have 460 employees who work in corporate and support positions who are not assigned to a segment who may assist with segment activities. we believe our relationships with our employees are good. our employees are not organized under collective bargaining agreements, although some of our employees in europe are represented by statutory works councils and benefit from applicable labor agreements. management overview at the time of the merger, we established our key strategic priorities to guide our path through the end of 2013. these priorities were: to align our portfolio with our investment strategy while serving the needs of our customers; to strengthen our financial position and build one of the top balance sheets in the reit industry; to streamline our private capital business and position it for substantial growth; to improve the utilization of our low yielding assets; and to build the most effective and efficient organization in the reit industry and to become the employer of choice among top professionals interested in real estate as a career. 6 table of contents align our portfolio with our investment strategy as discussed above, we have categorized our portfolio into three main segments global, regional and other markets. by segmenting our markets in this manner, we were able to construct a plan that includes culling the portfolio for buildings and potentially submarkets that are no longer a strategic fit. we expect to use the proceeds from dispositions to pay down debt that is secured by the disposed assets, if any, repay other debt and to recycle capital into new development projects and/or strategic acquisitions. strengthen our financial position we intend to further strengthen our financial position by lowering our financial risk and currency exposure and building one of the strongest balance sheets in the reit industry. we expect to lower our financial risk by reducing leverage and maintaining staggered debt maturities, which will increase our financial flexibility and provide for continued access to capital markets. this financial flexibility will position us to capitalize on market opportunities across the entire business cycle as they arise. we expect to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange fluctuations by borrowing in local currency where appropriate, and utilizing derivative contracts to hedge our foreign denominated equity and swap u.s. dollar denominated debt into obligations denominated in foreign currencies. we expect to also lower our foreign currency risk by holding assets outside the united states primarily in co-investment ventures in which we maintain an ownership interest and provide services generating private capital revenue. we will accomplish this through contributions and sales to our existing and newly formed co-investment ventures, including the new ventures in europe and japan discussed below under item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations . in addition, we expect that new development projects, particularly in those emerging markets such as brazil, china and mexico, will be done in conjunction with our private capital partners. streamline private capital business we are working with our private capital investors to rationalize certain of our co-investment ventures. some of our legacy co-investment ventures have fee structures that do not adequately compensate us for the services we provide. therefore, we have terminated or restructured certain of these co-investment ventures. in other cases, we may combine some co-investment ventures to gain operational efficiencies. in every case, however, we have and will continue to work very closely with our partners and venture investors who have been and will be active participants in these decisions. we expect to continue with these activities during 2013. we plan to grow our private capital business with the deployment of the private capital commitments we have already raised, formation of new co-investment ventures, including the new ventures in europe and japan, and raising incremental capital for our existing co-investment ventures. improve the utilization of our low yielding assets we plan to increase the value of our low yielding assets by stabilizing our operating portfolio to 95% leased, completing the build-out and lease-up of our development projects as well as monetizing our land through development or sale to third parties. build the most effective and efficient organization in the reit industry and become the employer of choice among top professionals interested in real estate as a career we realized more than $115 million of cost synergies on an annualized basis, compared to the combined expenses of amb and prologis on a pre-merger basis. these synergies included gross general and administrative savings, reduced global line of credit facility fees and lower amortization of non real estate assets. we will continue to look for and achieve additional savings opportunities. in addition, we implemented a new enterprise wide system that includes a property management/billing system (implemented in april 2012), a human resources system (implemented in july 2012), a general ledger and accounting system and a data warehouse (implemented in january 2013). in connection with this implementation, we are striving to utilize the most effective global business processes with the enhanced system functionality, and have also implemented several analytical tools to further empower and assist our regional and local teams. in early 2012, we implemented two new compensation plans that we believe will better align employees compensation to our company performance. we believe these efforts and others will help us with the attainment of this objective. see item 7 management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for a discussion of our 2012 results and progress attaining the objectives outlined above. code of ethics and business conduct we maintain a code of ethics and business conduct applicable to our board of directors ( board ) and all of our officers and employees, including the principal executive officer, the principal financial officer and the principal accounting officer, or persons performing similar functions. a copy of our code of ethics and business conduct is available on our website, www.prologis.com. in addition to being accessible through our website, copies of our code of ethics and business conduct can be obtained, free of charge, upon written request to investor relations, pier 1, bay 1, san francisco, california 94111. any amendments to or waivers of our code of ethics and business conduct that apply to the principal executive officer, the principal financial officer, or the principal accounting officer, or persons performing similar functions, and that relate to any matter enumerated in item 406(b) of regulation s-k, will be disclosed on our website. environmental matters we are exposed to various environmental risks that may result in unanticipated losses and affect our operating results and financial condition. either the previous owners or we subjected a majority of the properties we have acquired, including land, to environmental reviews. while 7 table of contents some of these assessments have led to further investigation and sampling, none of the environmental assessments has revealed an environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see note 21 to our consolidated financial statements in item 8 and item 1a. risk factors . insurance coverage we carry insurance coverage on our properties. we determine the type of coverage and the policy specifications and limits based on what we deem to be the risks associated with our ownership of properties and our business operations in specific markets. such coverage includes property damage and rental loss insurance resulting from such perils as fire, additional perils as covered under an extended coverage policy, namely windstorm, flood, earthquake and terrorism; commercial general liability insurance; and environmental insurance. insurance is maintained through a combination of commercial insurance, self insurance and through a wholly-owned captive insurance entity. we believe that our insurance coverage contains policy specifications and insured limits that are customary for similar properties, business activities and markets and we believe our properties are adequately insured. however, an uninsured loss could result in loss of capital investment and anticipated revenues and earnings. see further discussion in item 1a. risk factors . item 1a. risk factors our operations and structure involve various risks that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, distributable cash flow and value of our securities. these risks include, among others: general disruptions in the global capital and credit markets may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. global market and economic conditions have been challenging with tighter credit conditions and slower growth in most major economies during the last few years. although signs of recovery are emerging, there are continued concerns about the systemic impact of inflation, the availability and cost of credit, a lagging real estate market and geopolitical issues that contribute to increased market volatility and uncertain expectations for the global economy. to the extent there is turmoil in the financial markets, it has the potential to materially affect the value of our properties and investments in our unconsolidated entities, the availability or the terms of financing that we and our unconsolidated entities have or may anticipate utilizing, our ability and that of our unconsolidated entities to make principal and interest payments on, or refinance any outstanding debt when due and may impact the ability of our customers to enter into new leasing transactions or satisfy rental payments under existing leases. the market volatility over the last several years has made the valuation of our properties and those of our unconsolidated entities more difficult. there may be significant uncertainty in the valuation, or in the stability of the value, of our properties and those we invest in through unconsolidated entities, that could result in a decrease in the value of our properties and our investments in unconsolidated entities. as a result, we may not be able to recover the current carrying amount of our investments in real estate properties, including our unconsolidated entities, which may require us to recognize an impairment charge in earnings where it is known in addition to the charges we previously recognized. any additional, continued or recurring disruptions in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities. as a global company, we are subject to social, political and economic risks of doing business in many countries. we conduct a significant portion of our business and employ a substantial number of people outside of the united states. during 2012, we generated approximately 41.8% or $838.6 million of our revenue from operations outside the united states. circumstances and developments related to international operations that could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow include, but are not limited to, the following factors: difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations in certain regions; differing employment practices and labor issues; local businesses and cultural factors that differ from our usual standards and practices; volatility in currencies; currency restrictions, which may prevent the transfer of capital and profits to the united states; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and other laws; potentially adverse tax consequences; the responsibility of complying with multiple and potentially conflicting laws, e.g., with respect to corrupt practices, employment and licensing; 8 table of contents the impact of regional or country-specific business cycles and economic instability; political instability, uncertainty over property rights, civil unrest, drug trafficking, political activism or the continuation or escalation of terrorist or gang activities (particularly with respect to our operations in mexico); foreign ownership restrictions with respect to operations in countries; and access to capital may be more restricted, or unavailable on favorable terms or at all in certain locations. our global growth also subjects us to certain risks, including risks associated with funding increasing headcount, integrating new offices, and establishing effective controls and procedures to regulate the operations of new offices and to monitor compliance with regulations such as the foreign corrupt practices act, the united kingdom bribery act and similar laws. although we have committed substantial resources to expand our global platform, if we are unable to successfully manage the risks associated with our global business or to adequately manage operational fluctuations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. in addition, our international operations and, specifically, the ability of our non-united states subsidiaries to dividend or otherwise transfer cash among our subsidiaries, including transfers of cash to pay interest and principal on our debt, may be affected by currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations and potentially adverse tax consequences, among other things. the depreciation in the value of the foreign currency in countries where we have a significant investment may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. we have pursued, and intend to continue to pursue, growth opportunities in international markets where the u.s. dollar is not the functional currency. at december 31, 2012, approximately 40.6% or $11.1 billion of our total assets are invested in a currency other than the u.s. dollar, primarily the british pound sterling, euro and japanese yen. as a result, we are subject to foreign currency risk due to potential fluctuations in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the u.s. dollar. a significant change in the value of the foreign currency of one or more countries where we have a significant investment may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, debt covenant ratios, results of operations and cash flow. although we attempt to mitigate adverse effects by borrowing under debt agreements denominated in foreign currencies and using derivative contracts, there can be no assurance that those attempts to mitigate foreign currency risk will be successful. hedging arrangements involve risks, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements and the risk of fluctuation in the relative value of the foreign currency. the funds required to settle such arrangements could be significant depending on the stability and movement of foreign currency. the failure to hedge effectively against exchange rate changes may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. real estate investments are not as liquid as certain other types of assets, which may reduce economic returns to investors. real estate investments are not as liquid as certain other types of investments and this lack of liquidity may limit our ability to react promptly to changes in economic or other conditions. in addition, significant expenditures associated with real estate investments, such as secured mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs, are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from the investments. like other companies qualifying as reits under the internal revenue code, we are only able to hold property for sale in the ordinary course of business through taxable reit subsidiaries in order to not incur punitive taxation on any tax gain from the sale of such property. while we may dispose of certain properties that have been held for investment in order to generate liquidity, if we do not satisfy certain safe harbors or we believe there is too much risk of incurring the punitive tax on any tax gain from the sale, we may not pursue such sales. in the event that we do not have sufficient cash available to us through our operations or available credit facilities to continue operating our business as usual, we may need to find alternative ways to increase our liquidity. such alternatives may include, without limitation, divesting ourselves of properties, whether or not they otherwise meet our strategic objectives to keep in the long term, at less than optimal terms, incurring debt, entering into leases with our customers at lower rental rates or less than optimal terms or entering into lease renewals with our existing customers without an increase in rental rates at turnover. there can be no assurance, however, that such alternative ways to increase our liquidity will be available to us. additionally, taking such measures to increase our liquidity may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, our ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities. risks related to our business general economic conditions and other events or occurrences that affect areas in which our properties are geographically concentrated, may impact financial results. we are exposed to general economic conditions, local, regional, national and international economic conditions and other events and occurrences that affect the markets in which we own properties. our operating performance is further impacted by the economic conditions of the specific markets in which we have concentrations of properties. 9 table of contents as of december 31, 2012, approximately 25.1% of our consolidated operating properties or $5.7 billion (based on investment before depreciation) are located in california, which represented 20.5% of the aggregate square footage of our operating properties and 23.1% of our annualized base rent. our revenue from, and the value of, our properties located in california may be affected by local real estate conditions (such as an oversupply of or reduced demand for industrial properties) and the local economic climate. business layoffs, downsizing, industry slowdowns, changing demographics and other factors may adversely impact california economic climate. because of the number of properties we have located in california, a downturn in california economy or real estate conditions could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities. in addition to california, we also have significant holdings (defined as more than 3% of total investment before depreciation) in operating properties in certain global and regional markets located in chicago, dallas/fort worth, france, japan, mexico, new jersey/new york city, south florida and the united kingdom. our operating performance could be adversely affected if conditions become less favorable in any of the markets in which we have a concentration of properties. conditions such as an oversupply of distribution space or a reduction in demand for distribution space, among other factors, may impact operating conditions. any material oversupply of distribution space or material reduction in demand for distribution space could adversely affect our results of operations, distributable cash flow and the value of our securities. in addition, the unconsolidated entities in which we invest have concentrations of properties in the same markets mentioned above, as well as in markets in germany, the netherlands, poland and seattle are subject to the economic conditions in those markets. a number of our properties are located in areas that are known to be subject to earthquake activity. united states properties located in active seismic areas include properties in the san francisco bay area, los angeles, and seattle. international properties located in active seismic areas include japan and mexico. we generally carry earthquake insurance on our properties located in areas historically subject to seismic activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles if we believe it is commercially reasonable. we evaluate our earthquake insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants and in some specific instances have elected to self insure our earthquake exposure based on this analysis. we have elected not to carry earthquake insurance for wholly owned assets in japan based on this analysis. further, a number of our properties are located in areas that are known to be subject to hurricane and/or flood risk. we carry hurricane and flood hazard insurance on all of our properties located in areas historically subject to such activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles if we believe it is commercially reasonable. we evaluate our insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants. our insurance coverage does not include all potential losses. we and our unconsolidated entities currently carry insurance coverage including property damage and rental loss insurance resulting from certain perils such as fire and additional perils as covered under an extended coverage policy, namely windstorm, flood, earthquake and terrorism; commercial general liability insurance; and environmental insurance, as appropriate for the markets where each of our properties and business operations are located. the insurance coverage contains policy specifications and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties, business activities and markets. we believe our properties and the properties of our unconsolidated entities are adequately insured. however, there are certain losses, including losses from floods, earthquakes, acts of war, acts of terrorism or riots, that are not generally insured against or that are not generally fully insured against because it is not deemed economically feasible or prudent to do so. if an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs with respect to one or more of our properties, we could experience a significant loss of capital invested and future revenues in these properties and could potentially remain obligated under any recourse debt associated with the property. furthermore, we cannot be sure that the insurance companies will be able to continue to offer products with sufficient coverage at commercially reasonable rates. if we experience a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds insured limits with respect to one or more of our properties or if the insurance companies fail to meet their coverage commitments to us in the event of an insured loss, then we could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties, as well as the anticipated future revenue from those properties and, if there is recourse debt, then we would remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the properties. any such losses or higher insurance costs could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities. investments in real estate properties are subject to risks that could adversely affect our business. investments in real estate properties are subject to varying degrees of risk. while we seek to minimize these risks through geographic diversification of our portfolio, market research and our property management capabilities, these risks cannot be eliminated. some of the factors that may affect real estate values include: local conditions, such as an oversupply of distribution space or a reduction in demand for distribution space in an area; the attractiveness of our properties to potential customers; competition from other available properties; 10 table of contents increasing costs of rehabilitating, repositioning, renovating and making improvements to our properties; our ability to provide adequate maintenance of, and insurance on, our properties; our ability to control rents and variable operating costs; governmental regulations, including zoning, usage and tax laws and changes in these laws; and potential liability under, and changes in, environmental, zoning and other laws. our investments are concentrated in the industrial distribution sector and our business would be adversely affected by an economic downturn in that sector. our investments in real estate assets are primarily concentrated in the industrial distribution sector. this concentration may expose us to the risk of economic downturns in this sector to a greater extent than if our business activities were more diversified. our operating results and distributable cash flow will depend on the continued generation of lease revenues from customers and we may be unable to lease vacant space or renew leases or re-lease space on favorable terms as leases expire. our operating results and distributable cash flow would be adversely affected if a significant number of our customers were unable to meet their lease obligations. we are also subject to the risk that, upon the expiration of leases for space located in our properties, leases may not be renewed by existing customers, the space may not be re-leased to new customers or the terms of renewal or re-leasing (including the cost of required renovations or concessions to customers) may be less favorable to us than current lease terms. our competitors may offer space at rental rates below current market rates or below the rental rates we currently charge our customers, we may lose potential customers, and we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we currently charge in order to retain customers when our customers leases expire. in the event of default by a significant number of customers, we may experience delays and incur substantial costs in enforcing our rights as landlord, and may be unable to re-lease spaces. a customer may experience a downturn in its business, which may cause the loss of the customer or may weaken its financial condition, resulting in the customer failure to make rental payments when due or requiring a restructuring that might reduce cash flow from the lease. in addition, a customer may seek the protection of bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws, which could result in the rejection and termination of such customer lease and thereby cause a reduction in our available cash flow. if we decide to contribute or sell properties to an unconsolidated entity or third parties to generate proceeds, we may not be successful. we may contribute or sell properties to certain of our unconsolidated entities or third parties on a case-by-case basis. our ability to sell properties on advantageous terms is affected by competition from other owners of properties that are trying to dispose of their properties; market conditions, including the capitalization rates applicable to our properties; and other factors beyond our control. if our competitors sell assets similar to assets we intend to divest in the same markets and/or at valuations below our valuations for comparable assets, we may be unable to divest our assets at favorable pricing or on favorable terms or at all. the unconsolidated entity or third parties who might acquire our properties may need to have access to debt and equity capital, in the private and public markets, in order to acquire properties from us. should they have limited or no access to capital on favorable terms, then dispositions could be delayed. if we are unable to generate proceeds through property sales we may have to delay our deleveraging plans, which may result in adverse effects on our liquidity, distributable cash flow, debt covenant ratio, and the market price of our securities. we may acquire properties, which involves risks that could adversely affect our operating results and the value of our securities. we may acquire industrial properties. the acquisition of properties involves risks, including the risk that the acquired property will not perform as anticipated and that any actual costs for rehabilitation, repositioning, renovation and improvements identified in the pre-acquisition due diligence process will exceed estimates. when we acquire properties, we may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local economy, forging new business relationships in the area and unfamiliarity with local government and permitting procedures. additionally, there is, and it is expected there will continue to be, significant competition for properties that meet our investment criteria as well as risks associated with obtaining financing for acquisition activities. our real estate development strategies may not be successful. our real estate development strategy is focused on monetizing land in the future through sales to third parties, development of industrial properties to hold for long-term investment or contribution or sale to an unconsolidated entity, depending on market conditions, our liquidity needs and other factors. we may expand investment in our development, renovation and redevelopment business and we will complete the build-out and leasing of our development platform. we may also develop, renovate and redevelop properties within existing or newly formed development co-investment ventures. the real estate development, renovation and redevelopment business involves significant risks that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities, which include the following risks: we may not be able to obtain financing for development projects on favorable terms or at all; we may not be able to obtain, or may experience delays in obtaining, all necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other governmental permits and authorizations; 11 table of contents we may seek to sell certain land parcels and not be able to find a third party to acquire such land or the sales price will not allow us to recover our investment, resulting in additional impairment charges; development opportunities that we explore may be abandoned and the related investment impaired; the properties may perform below anticipated levels, producing cash flow below budgeted amounts; we may not be able to lease properties on favorable terms or at all; construction costs, total investment amounts and our share of remaining funding may exceed our estimates and projects may not be completed, delivered or stabilized as planned; we may not be able to attract third party investment in new development co-investment ventures or sufficient customer demand for our product; we may not be able to capture the anticipated enhanced value created by our redevelopment projects on expected timetables or at all; we may experience delays (temporary or permanent) if there is public or government opposition to our activities; and substantial renovation, new development and redevelopment activities, regardless of their ultimate success, typically require a significant amount of management time and attention, diverting their attention from our day-to-day operations. we are exposed to various environmental risks that may result in unanticipated losses that could affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flow. under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner, developer or operator of real estate may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances. the costs of removal or remediation of such substances could be substantial. such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release or presence of such hazardous substances. in addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages based on personal injury, property damage or other costs, including investigation and clean-up costs, resulting from the environmental contamination. environmental laws in some countries, including the united states, also require that owners or operators of buildings containing asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos, adequately inform or train those who may come into contact with asbestos and undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, in the event that asbestos is disturbed during building renovation or demolition. these laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos. some of our properties are known to contain asbestos-containing building materials. in addition, some of our properties are leased or have been leased, in part, to owners and operators of businesses that use, store or otherwise handle petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, creating a potential for the release of such hazardous or toxic substances. further, certain of our properties are on, adjacent to or near other properties that have contained or currently contain petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, or upon which others have engaged, are engaged or may engage in activities that may release such hazardous or toxic substances. from time to time, we may acquire properties, or interests in properties, with known adverse environmental conditions where we believe that the environmental liabilities associated with these conditions are quantifiable and that the acquisition will yield a superior risk-adjusted return. in connection with certain divested properties, we have agreed to remain responsible for, and to bear the cost of, remediating or monitoring certain environmental conditions on the properties. we cannot give any assurance that other such conditions do not exist or may not arise in the future. the presence of such substances on our real estate properties could adversely affect our ability to lease, develop or sell such properties or to borrow using such properties as collateral and may have an adverse effect on our distributable cash flow. we are subject to risks and liabilities in connection with forming co-investment ventures, investing in new or existing co-investment ventures, attracting third party investment and investing in and managing properties through co-investment ventures. as of december 31, 2012, we had an investment in real estate containing approximately 214.5 million square feet held through unconsolidated entities. our organizational documents do not limit the amount of available funds that we may invest in unconsolidated entities, and we may and currently intend to develop and acquire properties through co-investment ventures and investments in other entities when warranted by the circumstances. however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to form new co-investment ventures, attract third party investment or make additional investments in new or existing co-investment ventures, successfully develop or acquire properties through unconsolidated entities, or realize value from such unconsolidated entities. our inability to do so may have an adverse effect on our growth, our earnings and the market price of our securities. 12 table of contents our partners in our unconsolidated investments may share certain approval rights over major decisions and some partners may manage the properties in the unconsolidated entities. our unconsolidated investments involve certain risks, including: if our partners fail to fund their share of any required capital contributions, then we may choose to contribute such capital; our partners might have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals that would affect our ability to operate the property; the venture or other governing agreements often restrict the transfer of an interest in the co-investment venture or may otherwise restrict our ability to sell the interest when we desire or on advantageous terms; our relationships with our partners are generally contractual in nature and may be terminated or dissolved under the terms of the agreements, and in such event, we may not continue to manage or invest in the assets underlying such relationships resulting in reduced fee revenue or causing a need to purchase such interest to continue ownership; and disputes between us and our partners may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and directors from focusing their time and effort on our business and result in subjecting the properties owned by the applicable co-investment venture to additional risk. we generally seek to maintain sufficient influence over our unconsolidated entities to permit us to achieve our business objectives; however, we may not be able to do so. we have formed publicly traded investment vehicles, like our publicly traded reit in japan, for which we serve as sponsor and/or manager. we have contributed, and may continue to contribute, assets into such vehicles. as with any of our publicly traded entities or funds, there is a risk that we may not be able to continue to manage such entities and their assets in the event that our managerial relationship is terminated. the occurrence of one or more of the events described above could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities. contingent or unknown liabilities could adversely affect our financial condition. we have acquired and may in the future acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities. as a result, if a liability were asserted against us based upon ownership of any of these entities or properties, then we might have to pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely affect our cash flow. contingent or unknown liabilities with respect to entities or properties acquired might include: liabilities for environmental conditions; losses in excess of our insured coverage; accrued but unpaid liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; tax, legal and regulatory liabilities; and claims for indemnification by the general partners, officers and directors and others indemnified by the former owners of our properties. risks related to financing and capital we face risks associated with the use of debt to fund our business activities, including refinancing and interest rate risks, and our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected if we are unable to make required payments on our debt or are unable to refinance our debt. we are subject to risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest. there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any maturing indebtedness, that such refinancing would be on terms as favorable as the terms of the maturing indebtedness, or that we will be able to otherwise obtain funds by selling assets or raising equity to make required payments on maturing indebtedness. if we are unable to refinance our indebtedness at maturity or meet our payment obligations, the amount of our distributable cash flow and our financial condition would be adversely affected and, if the maturing debt is secured, the lender may foreclose on the property securing such indebtedness. our global senior credit agreement, japanese yen-based credit agreement and certain other debt bears interest at variable rates. increases in interest rates would increase our interest expense under these agreements. from time to time, we may enter into interest rate swap or cap agreements. such hedging arrangements involve risks, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements. the funds required to settle any swap breakage arrangements, if any, could be significant depending on the size of underlying financing and the applicable interest rates at the time of breakage. the failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. in addition, our unconsolidated entities may be unable to refinance indebtedness or meet payment obligations, which may impact our distributable cash flow and our financial condition and/or we may be required to recognize impairment charges of our investments. 13 table of contents covenants in our credit agreements could limit our flexibility and breaches of these covenants could adversely affect our financial condition. the terms of our various credit agreements, including our global senior credit agreement and japanese yen-based credit agreement, the indentures under which our senior notes are issued and other note agreements, require us to comply with a number of customary financial covenants, such as maintaining debt service coverage, leverage ratios, fixed charge ratios and other operating covenants including maintaining insurance coverage. these covenants may limit our flexibility in our operations, and breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable indebtedness. if we default under the covenant provisions and are unable to cure the default, refinance the indebtedness or meet payment obligations, the amount of our distributable cash flow and our financial condition could be adversely affected. adverse changes in our credit ratings could negatively affect our financing activity. the credit ratings of our senior unsecured notes and preferred stock are based on our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position and other factors employed by the credit rating agencies in their rating analyses of us. our credit ratings can affect the amount of capital we can access, as well as the terms and pricing of any debt we may incur. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings, and in the event our credit ratings are downgraded, we would likely incur higher borrowing costs and may encounter difficulty in obtaining additional financing. also, a downgrade in our credit ratings may trigger additional payments or other negative consequences under our current and future credit facilities and debt instruments. adverse changes in our credit ratings could negatively impact our refinancing and other capital market activities, our ability to manage debt maturities, our future growth, our financial condition, the market price of our securities, and our development and acquisition activity. we are dependent on external sources of capital . in order to qualify as a reit, we are required each year to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our reit taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends-paid deduction and by excluding any net capital gain) and we may be subject to tax to the extent our income is not fully distributed. while historically we have satisfied these distribution requirements by making cash distributions to our stockholders, we may choose to satisfy these requirements by making distributions of cash or other property, including, in limited circumstances, our own stock. for distributions with respect to taxable years ending on or before december 31, 2012, and in some cases declared as late as december 31, 2013, the reit can satisfy up to 90% of the distribution requirements discussed above through the distribution of shares of our stock if certain conditions are met. assuming we continue to satisfy these distribution requirements with cash, we may not be able to fund all future capital needs, including acquisition and development activities, from cash retained from operations and may have to rely on third-party sources of capital. further, in order to maintain our reit status and not have to pay federal income and excise taxes, we may need to borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the reit distribution requirements even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings. these short-term borrowing needs could result from differences in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for federal income tax purposes, or the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt or amortization payments. our ability to access debt and equity capital on favorable terms or at all is dependent upon a number of factors, including general market conditions, the market perception of our growth potential, our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions and the market price of our securities. our stockholders may experience dilution if we issue additional common stock. any additional future issuance of common stock will reduce the percentage of our common stock owned by investors. in most circumstances, stockholders will not be entitled to vote on whether or not we issue additional common stock. in addition, depending on the terms and pricing of an additional offering of our common stock and the value of the properties, our stockholders may experience dilution in both book value and fair value of their common stock. federal income tax risks our failure to qualify as a reit would have serious adverse consequences. we elected to be taxed as a reit under sections 856 through 860 of the internal revenue code commencing with the taxable year ended december 31, 1997. we believe we have operated so as to qualify as a reit under the internal revenue code and believe that our current organization and method of operation comply with the rules and regulations promulgated under the internal revenue code to enable us to continue to qualify as a reit. however, it is possible that we are organized or have operated in a manner that would not allow us to qualify as a reit, or that our future operations could cause us to fail to qualify. qualification as a reit requires us to satisfy numerous requirements (some on an annual and others on a quarterly basis) established under highly technical and complex sections of the internal revenue code for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations, and involves the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. for example, in order to qualify as a reit, prologis must derive at least 95% of its gross income in any year from qualifying sources. in addition, we must pay dividends to our stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding capital gains) and must satisfy specified asset tests on a quarterly basis. the provisions of the internal revenue code and applicable treasury regulations regarding qualification as a reit are more complicated in our case because we hold assets through the operating partnership. 14 table of contents if we fail to qualify as a reit in any taxable year, we will be required to pay federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on taxable income at regular corporate rates. unless we are entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from treatment as a reit for the four taxable years following the year in which we lost the qualification. if we lost our reit status, our net earnings would be significantly reduced for each of the years involved. furthermore, we own a direct or indirect interest in certain subsidiary reits which elected to be taxed as reits under sections 856 through 860 of the internal revenue code. provided that each subsidiary reit qualifies as a reit, our interest in such subsidiary reit will be treated as a qualifying real estate asset for purposes of the reit asset tests, and any dividend income or gains derived by us from such subsidiary reit will generally be treated as income that qualifies for purposes of the reit gross income tests. to qualify as a reit, the subsidiary reit must independently satisfy all of the reit qualification requirements. if such subsidiary reit were to fail to qualify as a reit, and certain relief provisions did not apply, it would be treated as a regular taxable corporation and its income would be subject to united states federal income tax. in addition, a failure of the subsidiary reit to qualify as a reit would have an adverse effect on our ability to comply with the reit income and asset tests, and thus our ability to qualify as a reit. certain property transfers may generate prohibited transaction income, resulting in a penalty tax on gain attributable to the transaction. from time to time, we may transfer or otherwise dispose of some of our properties, including by contributing properties to our co-investment ventures. under the internal revenue code, any gain resulting from transfers of properties we hold as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is treated as income from a prohibited transaction subject to a 100% penalty tax. we do not believe that our transfers or disposals of property or our contributions of properties into our co-investment ventures are prohibited transactions. however, whether property is held for investment purposes is a question of fact that depends on all the facts and circumstances surrounding the particular transaction. the internal revenue code may contend that certain transfers or dispositions of properties by us or contributions of properties into our co-investment ventures are prohibited transactions. while we believe that the internal revenue code would not prevail in any such dispute, if the internal revenue code were to argue successfully that a transfer, disposition, or contribution of property constituted a prohibited transaction, we would be required to pay a 100% penalty tax on any gain allocable to us from the prohibited transaction. in addition, income from a prohibited transaction might adversely affect our ability to satisfy the income tests for qualification as a reit. legislative or regulatory action could adversely affect us. in recent years, numerous legislative, judicial and administrative changes have been made to the federal income tax taws applicable to investments in reits and similar entities. additional changes to tax laws are likely to continue to occur in the future, and may impact our taxation or that of our stockholders. other risks risks associated with our dependence on key personnel. we depend on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. from time to time, our personnel and their roles may change. in connection with the completion of the merger, there were changes to our personnel and their roles. while we believe that we have retained our key talent and have found suitable employees to meet our personnel needs, the loss of key personnel, any change in their roles, or the limitation of their availability could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to security holders and the market price of our securities. if we are unable to continue to attract and retain our executive officers, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain key employees become more expensive, our performance and competitive position could be materially adversely affected. compliance or failure to comply with the americans with disabilities act and other similar regulations could result in substantial costs. under the americans with disabilities act, places of public accommodation must meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the award of damages to private litigants. if we are required to make unanticipated expenditures to comply with the americans with disabilities act, including removing access barriers, then our cash flow and the amounts available to make distributions and payments to our security holders may be adversely affected. our properties are also subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life-safety requirements. we could incur fines or private damage awards if we fail to comply with these requirements. while we believe that our properties are currently in material compliance with these regulatory requirements, the requirements may change or new requirements may be imposed that could require significant unanticipated expenditures by us that will affect our cash flow and results of operations. we are subject to governmental regulations and actions that affect operating results and financial condition. many laws, including tax laws, and governmental regulations apply to us, our unconsolidated entities and our properties. changes in these laws and governmental regulations, or their interpretation by agencies or the courts, could occur, which might affect our ability to conduct business. our business could be adversely impacted if we have deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting. the design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors, misstatements or misrepresentations. while management will continue to review the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures 15 table of contents and internal control over financial reporting, there can be no guarantee that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. deficiencies, including any material weakness, in our internal control over financial reporting that may occur in the future could result in misstatements of our results of operations, restatements of our financial statements, a decline in the price of our securities, or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. we are exposed to the potential impacts of future climate change and climate change related risks. we consider that we are exposed to potential physical risks from possible future changes in climate. our distribution facilities may be exposed to rare catastrophic weather events, such as severe storms and/or floods. if the frequency of extreme weather events increases due to climate change, our exposure to these events could increase. we do not currently consider ourselves to be exposed to regulatory risks related to climate change, as our operations do not emit a significant amount of greenhouse gases. however, we may be adversely impacted as a real estate developer in the future by potential impacts to the supply chain and/or stricter energy efficiency standards for buildings. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and foreign-exchange related variability and earnings volatility on our foreign investments. we have used certain derivative financial instruments, primarily foreign currency put option and forward contracts, to reduce our foreign currency market risk, as we deem appropriate. we have also used interest rate swap agreements to reduce our interest rate market risk. we do not use financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes and all financial instruments are entered into in accordance with established policies and procedures. we monitor our market risk exposures using a sensitivity analysis. our sensitivity analysis estimates the exposure to market risk sensitive instruments assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse change in year end interest rates. the results of the sensitivity analysis are summarized below. the sensitivity analysis is of limited predictive value. as a result, our ultimate realized gains or losses with respect to interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations will depend on the exposures that arise during a future period, hedging strategies at the time and the prevailing interest and foreign currency exchange rates. the failure to hedge effectively against exchange and interest rate changes may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. interest rate risk our interest rate risk objective is to limit the impact of future interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows. to achieve this objective, we primarily borrow on a fixed rate basis for longer-term debt issuances. as of december 31, 2012, we had a total of $3.3 billion of variable rate debt outstanding, of which $0.9 billion was outstanding on our credit facilities, $0.6 billion was outstanding under a multi-currency senior term loan and $1.8 billion was outstanding secured mortgage debt. as of december 31, 2012, we have entered into interest rate swap agreements to fix $1.3 billion of our variable rate secured mortgage debt. our primary interest rate risk not subject to interest rate swap agreements is created by the variable rate credit facilities, senior term loan and selected secured mortgage debt. during the year ended december 31, 2012, we had weighted average daily outstanding borrowings of $1.2 billion on our variable rate debt not subject to interest rate swap agreements. based on the results of a sensitivity analysis assuming a 10% adverse change in interest rates based on our outstanding balances during the period, the impact was $2.0 million, which equates to a change in interest rates of 17 basis points. 45 table of contents foreign currency risk foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. our primary exposure to foreign currency exchange rates relates to the translation of the net income and net investment of our foreign subsidiaries into u.s. dollar, principally euro, british pound sterling and japanese yen, especially to the extent we wish to repatriate funds to the united states. to mitigate our foreign currency exchange exposure, we borrow in the functional currency of the borrowing entity, when appropriate. we also may use foreign currency put option contracts or other forms of hedging instruments to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with the projected net operating income or net equity of our foreign consolidated subsidiaries and unconsolidated entities. hedging arrangements involve risks, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements and the risk of fluctuation in the relative value of the foreign currency. the funds required to settle such arrangements could be significant depending on the stability and movement of foreign currency. the failure to hedge effectively against exchange and interest rate changes may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. we may experience fluctuations in our earnings as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. in fourth quarter 2012, we entered into foreign currency forward contracts that expire in april 2013 with an aggregate notional amount of 1.0 billion ($1.3 billion using the forward rate of 1.30) to further hedge a portion of our investment in europe at a fixed euro rate in u.s. dollars. based on a sensitivity analysis, a strengthening or weakening of the u.s. dollar against the euro by 10% would result in a $130.0 million positive or negative change, respectively, in our cash flows upon settlement of the forward contract. these derivatives were designated and qualify as hedging instruments and therefore the changes in fair value of these derivatives will be recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss in our consolidated balance sheets. we may enter into similar agreements in the future to further hedge our investment in europe or other jurisdictions. we also have some exposure to movements in exchange rates related to certain intercompany loans we issue from time to time and we may use foreign currency forward contracts to manage these risks. at december 31, 2012, we had no forward contracts outstanding and, therefore, we may experience fluctuations in our earnings from the remeasurement of these intercompany loans due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates.risk factors in this report. we undertake no duty to update any forward-looking statements appearing in this report except as may be required by law. part i item 1. business the company we are the leading global owner, operator and developer of industrial real estate, focused on global and regional markets across the americas, europe and asia. as of december 31, 2013, on an owned and managed basis, we had properties and development projects totaling 569 million square feet (52.9 million square meters) in 21 countries. these properties are leased to more than 4,500 customers, including third-party logistics providers, transportation companies, retailers, manufacturers, and other enterprises. of the 569 million square feet (representing an investment of $45.5 billion) in our owned and managed portfolio as of december 31, 2013: 529 million square feet were in our operating portfolio with a gross book value of $41.5 billion that were 95.1 % occupied; 30 million square feet were in our development portfolio with a total expected investment of $2.4 billion that were 45.3% leased; land available for future development was $1.6 billion; 10 million square feet consisted of properties in which we have an ownership interest but do not manage, including other non-industrial properties we own; and the largest customer and 25 largest customers accounted for 1.8% and 17.2 %, respectively, of our annualized base rent. prologis, inc. commenced operations as a fully integrated real estate company in 1997, elected to be taxed as a reit under the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended ( internal revenue code ), and believes the current organization and method of operation will enable prologis, inc. to maintain its status as a reit. the operating partnership was also formed in 1997. we have investments in entities through a variety of ventures. we co-invest in entities that own multiple properties with partners and investors and provide asset and property management services to these entities. we refer to these entities as co-investment ventures. our ownership interest in these entities generally ranges from 15-50%. these entities may be consolidated or unconsolidated, depending on the structure, our partner participating and other rights and our level of control of the entity. the co-investment ventures may have one or more investors. our global headquarters are located at pier 1, bay 1, san francisco, california 94111 and our global operational headquarters are located at 4545 airport way, denver, colorado 80239. our other principal office locations are in amsterdam, the grand duchy of luxembourg, mexico city, shanghai, singapore and tokyo. our internet website address is www.prologis.com . all reports required to be filed with the securities and exchange commission (the sec ) are available or may be accessed free of charge through the investor relations section of our internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. the common stock of prologis, inc. is listed on the new york stock exchange ( nyse ) under the ticker pld and is a component of the s&amp;p 500. on june 3, 2011, amb property corporation ( amb ) completed a merger with prologis, a maryland reit ( prologis ) in which prologis shareholders received 0.4464 of a share of common stock of amb for each outstanding common share of beneficial interest in prologis (the merger ). in the merger, amb was the legal acquirer and prologis was the accounting acquirer. following the merger, amb changed its name to prologis, inc. 4 table of contents investment strategy we believe that growth in gross domestic product ( gdp ) and in global trade are important drivers of demand for our industrial real estate. trade and gdp are correlated as higher levels of investment, production and consumption within a globalized economy are consistent with increased levels of imports and exports. as the world produces and consumes more, we believe that the volume of global trade will continue to increase at a rate in excess of growth in global gdp. significant supply chain reconfiguration, obsolescence and customers preference to lease, rather than own, industrial real estate also drive demand for high quality distribution space. our investment strategy focuses on providing distribution and logistics space to customers whose businesses are tied to global trade and depend on the efficient movement of goods through the global supply chain. we have a deep global presence with assets under management of $45.5 billion (based on expected investment) spanning 21 countries on four continents. our properties are primarily located in two main categories, global markets and regional markets. global markets comprise approximately 30 of the largest markets tied to global trade. these markets feature large population centers with high per-capita consumption rates and are located near major airports, seaports and ground transportation systems. regional markets benefit from large population centers but typically are not as tied to the global supply chain, but rather serve local consumption and are often less supply constrained. we intend to primarily hold only the highest quality class-a product in global and regional markets. as of december 31, 2013, global and regional markets represented approximately 84% and 14%, respectively of our overall owned and managed platform (based on our share of net operating income of the properties). we also own a small number of assets in other markets, which account for approximately 2% of our owned and managed platform. we generally plan to exit from these other markets in an orderly fashion in the next few years, although we may continue to opportunistically invest in other markets. we have local market knowledge, construction expertise and a commitment to sustainable design across our diverse portfolio. we are supported by a broad and diverse customer base, comprising relationships with multinational corporations that result in repeatable business. business strategy and operating segments our business strategy includes two operating segments: real estate operations and investment management. real estate operations segment rental operations - this represents the primary source of our revenue, earnings and funds from operations ( ffo ). we collect rent from our customers under operating leases, including reimbursements for the vast majority of our operating costs. we expect to generate long-term internal growth in rental income by maintaining a high occupancy rate at our properties, by controlling expenses and through contractual rent increases on existing space and through rent increases on renewals on rollover space, thus capitalizing on the economies of scale inherent in owning, operating and growing a large global portfolio. our rental income is diversified due to both our global presence and our broad customer base. we believe that our property management and leasing teams, regular maintenance and capital expenditure programs, energy management and sustainability programs and risk management programs create cost efficiencies, allowing us to leverage our global platform and provide flexible solutions for our customers. capital deployment - capital deployment includes development, re-development and acquisition activities that support our rental operations and are therefore included with that line of business for segment reporting. we acquire, develop and re-develop industrial properties primarily in global and regional markets to meet our customers needs. within this line of business, we capitalize on: (i) the land that we currently own in global and regional markets; (ii) the development expertise of our local personnel; (iii) our global customer relationships; and (iv) the demand for high-quality distribution facilities in key markets. we seek to increase our rental income and the net asset value of the company through the leasing of newly developed space, as well as through the acquisition of new properties. depending on several factors, we may develop properties for long-term hold, for contribution into one of our co-investment ventures, or occasionally for sale to third parties. during 2013, we recognized gains in continuing operations of $563 million from the disposition of properties primarily properties we developed. we develop directly as well as with our partners in certain co-investment ventures. investment management segment - we invest with partners and investors through our co-investment ventures, both private and public. we tailor industrial portfolios to investors specific needs and deploy capital with a focus on larger, long duration ventures and open ended funds with leading global institutions. we also access alternative sources of public equity such as the nippon prologis reit, inc. ( npr ) which began trading on the tokyo stock exchange in early 2013. these private and public vehicles source strategic capital for distinct geographies across our global platform. we typically hold an ownership interest in these ventures between 15-50%. we generate investment management revenues from our unconsolidated co-investment ventures by providing asset management and property management services. we may earn revenues through additional services provided such as leasing, acquisition, construction, development, disposition, legal and tax services. depending on the structure of the venture and the returns provided to our partners, we may also earn revenues through incentive returns or promotes during the life of a venture or upon liquidation. we believe our co-investments with investors will continue to serve as a source of capital for new investments and provide revenues for our stockholders, as well as mitigate risk associated with our foreign currency exposure. we may grow this business with the formation of new ventures and through the growth in existing ventures with new third-party capital and additional investments by us. at december 31, 2013, we had 13 co-investment ventures with assets under management (consolidated and unconsolidated) and approximately 90% of these ventures (based on the gross book value of the buildings in these ventures) are long-life or perpetual vehicles. competition the existence of competitively priced distribution space available in any market could have a material impact on our ability to rent space and on the rents that we can charge, which impacts both of our operating segments. to the extent we wish to acquire land for future development 5 table of contents of properties in our real estate operations segment or dispose of land, we may compete with local, regional, and national developers. we also face competition from investment managers for institutional capital within our investment management segment. we believe we have competitive advantages due to (i) our ability to respond quickly to customers needs for high-quality distribution space in key global and regional distribution markets; (ii) our established relationships with key customers served by our local personnel; (iii) our ability to leverage our organizational scale and structure to provide a single point of contact for our global customers through our global customer solutions team; (iv) our property management and leasing expertise; (v) our relationships and proven track record with current and prospective investors in our investment management business; (vi) our global experience in the development and management of industrial properties; (vii) the strategic locations of our land that we expect to develop; and (viii) our personnel who are experienced in the land entitlement process. customers we have a broad customer base that is diverse in terms of industry concentration and represents a broad spectrum of international, national, regional and local distribution space users. at december 31, 2013, in our real estate operations segment, we had more than 3,500 customers occupying 253.5 million square feet of distribution space. on an owned and managed basis, we had more than 4,500 customers occupying 503.8 million square feet of distribution space. our largest customer and 25 largest customers accounted for 1.6% and 22.6%, respectively, of our annualized base rent at december 31, 2013, for our real estate operations segment and 1.8% and 17.2%, respectively, for our owned and managed portfolio (which includes our real estate operations segment and our unconsolidated co-investment ventures). we develop long-term relationships with our customers and understand their business and needs, serving as their strategic partner for real estate on a global basis. keeping in close contact with customers and focusing on exceptional customer service sets us apart from other real estate providers as much more than a landlord. we believe that what we offer in terms of scope, scale and quality of assets of our owned and managed portfolio is unique. our in-depth knowledge of our markets helps us stay ahead of trends and create forward-thinking solutions for their distribution networks. this depth of customer knowledge results in greater retention and expanded service, which garners additional business from the same customer across multiple geographies. in our real estate operations segment, over half our annual base rent is derived from customers who lease from us in more than one location and, in some cases, more than one country, which is consistent with our owned and managed portfolio. in our investment management segment, we also consider our partners and investors to be our customers. as of december 31, 2013, we partnered with 104 investors, several of which invest in multiple ventures. employees we employ 1,468 persons across the globe. our employees work in 4 countries in the americas (873 persons), 15 countries in europe (387 persons) and 3 countries in asia (208 persons). of the total, we have assigned 918 employees to our real estate operations segment and 98 employees to our investment management segment. we have 452 employees who work in corporate and support positions who are not assigned to a segment. we believe our relationships with our employees are good. our employees are not organized under collective bargaining agreements, although some of our employees in europe are represented by statutory works councils and benefit from applicable labor agreements. code of ethics and business conduct we maintain a code of ethics and business conduct applicable to our board of directors ( board ) and all of our officers and employees, including the principal executive officer, the principal financial officer and the principal accounting officer, or persons performing similar functions. a copy of our code of ethics and business conduct is available on our website, www.prologis.com. in addition to being accessible through our website, copies of our code of ethics and business conduct can be obtained, free of charge, upon written request to investor relations, pier 1, bay 1, san francisco, california 94111. any amendments to or waivers of our code of ethics and business conduct that apply to the principal executive officer, the principal financial officer, or the principal accounting officer, or persons performing similar functions, and that relate to any matter enumerated in item 406(b) of regulation s-k, will be disclosed on our website. environmental matters we are exposed to various environmental risks that may result in unanticipated losses and affect our operating results and financial condition. either the previous owners or we have subjected a majority of the properties we have acquired, including land, to environmental reviews. while some of these assessments have led to further investigation and sampling, none of the environmental assessments has revealed an environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see item 1a. risk factors and note 20 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8. insurance coverage we carry insurance coverage on our properties. we determine the type of coverage and the policy specifications and limits based on what we deem to be the risks associated with our ownership of properties and our business operations in specific markets. such coverage typically includes property damage and rental loss insurance resulting from such perils as fire, windstorm, flood, earthquake and terrorism; commercial general liability insurance; and environmental insurance. insurance is maintained through a combination of commercial insurance, self 6 table of contents insurance and through a wholly-owned captive insurance entity. the costs to insure our properties are primarily covered through reimbursements from our customers. we believe that our insurance coverage contains policy specifications and insured limits that are customary for similar properties, business activities and markets and we believe our properties are adequately insured. see further discussion in item 1a. risk factors. item 1a. risk factors our operations and structure involve various risks that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, distributable cash flow and value of our securities. these risks include, among others: general as a global company, we are subject to social, political and economic risks of doing business in many countries. we conduct a significant portion of our business and employ a substantial number of people outside of the united states. during 2013, we generated approximately $527 million or 30.1% of our revenue from operations outside the united states. circumstances and developments related to international operations that could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow include, but are not limited to, the following factors: difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations in certain regions; differing employment practices and labor issues; local businesses and cultural factors that differ from our usual standards and practices; volatility in currencies; currency restrictions, which may prevent the transfer of capital and profits to the united states; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and other laws; potentially adverse tax consequences; the responsibility of complying with multiple and potentially conflicting laws, e.g., with respect to corrupt practices, employment and licensing; the impact of regional or country-specific business cycles and economic instability; political instability, uncertainty over property rights, civil unrest, drug trafficking, political activism or the continuation or escalation of terrorist or gang activities (particularly with respect to our operations in mexico); foreign ownership restrictions in operations with the respective countries; and access to capital may be more restricted, or unavailable on favorable terms or at all in certain locations. our global growth also subjects us to certain risks, including risks associated with funding increasing headcount, integrating new offices, and establishing effective controls and procedures to regulate the operations of new offices and to monitor compliance with regulations such as the foreign corrupt practices act, the united kingdom bribery act and similar laws. although we have committed substantial resources to expand our global platform, if we are unable to successfully manage the risks associated with our global business or to adequately manage operational fluctuations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. in addition, our international operations and, specifically, the ability of our non-united states subsidiaries to dividend or otherwise transfer cash among our subsidiaries, including transfers of cash to pay interest and principal on our debt, may be affected by currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations and potentially adverse tax consequences, among other things. the depreciation in the value of the foreign currency in countries where we have a significant investment may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. we have pursued, and intend to continue to pursue, growth opportunities in international markets where the u.s. dollar is not the functional currency. at december 31, 2013, approximately $7.3 billion or 29.5 % of our total assets are invested in a currency other than the u.s. dollar, primarily the british pound sterling, euro and japanese yen. as a result, we are subject to foreign currency risk due to potential fluctuations in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the u.s. dollar. a significant change in the value of the foreign currency of one or more countries where we have a significant investment may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, debt covenant ratios, results of operations and cash flow. although we attempt to mitigate adverse effects by borrowing under debt agreements denominated in foreign currencies and using derivative contracts, there can be no assurance that those attempts to mitigate foreign currency risk will be successful. 7 table of contents hedging arrangements involve risks, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements and the risk of fluctuation in the relative value of the foreign currency. the funds required to settle such arrangements could be significant depending on the stability and movement of foreign currency. the failure to hedge effectively against exchange rate changes may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. disruptions in the global capital and credit markets may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. to the extent there is turmoil in the financial markets, it has the potential to materially affect the value of our properties and investments in our unconsolidated entities, the availability or the terms of financing that we and our unconsolidated entities have or may anticipate utilizing, our ability and that of our unconsolidated entities to make principal and interest payments on, or refinance any outstanding debt when due and may impact the ability of our customers to enter into new leasing transactions or satisfy rental payments under existing leases. any additional, continued or recurring disruptions in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities. risks related to our business real estate investments are not as liquid as certain other types of assets, which may reduce economic returns to investors. real estate investments are not as liquid as certain other types of investments and this lack of liquidity may limit our ability to react promptly to changes in economic or other conditions. in addition, significant expenditures associated with real estate investments, such as secured mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs, are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from the investments. like other companies qualifying as reits under the internal revenue code, we are only able to hold property for sale in the ordinary course of business through taxable reit subsidiaries in order to not incur punitive taxation on any tax gain from the sale of such property. while we may dispose of certain properties that have been held for investment in order to generate liquidity, if we do not satisfy certain safe harbors or we believe there is too much risk of incurring the punitive tax on any tax gain from the sale, we may not pursue such sales. in the event that we do not have sufficient cash available to us through our operations or available credit facilities to continue operating our business as usual, we may need to find alternative ways to increase our liquidity. such alternatives may include, without limitation, divesting ourselves of properties, whether or not they otherwise meet our strategic objectives to keep in the long term, at less than optimal terms, incurring debt, entering into leases with our customers at lower rental rates or less than optimal terms or entering into lease renewals with our existing customers without an increase in rental rates at turnover. there can be no assurance, however, that such alternative ways to increase our liquidity will be available to us. additionally, taking such measures to increase our liquidity may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, our ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities. general economic conditions and other events or occurrences that affect areas in which our properties are geographically concentrated, may impact financial results. we are exposed to general economic conditions, local, regional, national and international economic conditions and other events and occurrences that affect the markets in which we own properties. our operating performance is further impacted by the economic conditions of the specific markets in which we have concentrations of properties. as of december 31, 2013, approximately 32.6% of our consolidated operating properties or $5.8 billion (based on investment before depreciation) are located in california, which represented 24.4% of the aggregate square footage of our operating properties and 29.1% of our annualized base rent. our revenue from, and the value of, our properties located in california may be affected by local real estate conditions (such as an oversupply of or reduced demand for industrial properties) and the local economic climate. business layoffs, downsizing, industry slowdowns, changing demographics and other factors may adversely impact california economic climate. because of the number of properties we have located in california, a downturn in california economy or real estate conditions could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities. in addition to california, we also have significant holdings (defined as more than 3% of total investment before depreciation) in operating properties in certain global and regional markets located in central &amp; eastern pennsylvania, chicago, dallas/fort worth, japan, mexico, new jersey/new york city and south florida. our operating performance could be adversely affected if conditions become less favorable in any of the markets in which we have a concentration of properties. conditions such as an oversupply of distribution space or a reduction in demand for distribution space, among other factors, may impact operating conditions. any material oversupply of distribution space or material reduction in demand for distribution space could adversely affect our results of operations, distributable cash flow and the value of our securities. in addition, the unconsolidated entities in which we invest have concentrations of properties in the same markets mentioned above, as well as in markets in france, germany, the netherlands, poland and the united kingdom, and are subject to the economic conditions in those markets. a number of our properties are located in areas that are known to be subject to earthquake activity. united states properties located in active seismic areas include properties in the san francisco bay area, los angeles, and seattle. international properties located in active seismic 8 table of contents areas include japan and mexico. we generally carry earthquake insurance on our properties located in areas historically subject to seismic activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles if we believe it is commercially reasonable. we evaluate our earthquake insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants and in some specific instances have elected to self insure our earthquake exposure based on this analysis. we have elected not to carry earthquake insurance for our assets in japan based on this analysis. further, a number of our properties are located in areas that are known to be subject to hurricane and/or flood risk. we carry hurricane and flood hazard insurance on all of our properties located in areas historically subject to such activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles if we believe it is commercially reasonable. we evaluate our insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants. our insurance coverage does not include all potential losses. we and our unconsolidated entities currently carry insurance coverage including property damage and rental loss insurance resulting from certain perils such as fire and additional perils as covered under an extended coverage policy, namely windstorm, flood, earthquake and terrorism; commercial general liability insurance; and environmental insurance, as appropriate for the markets where each of our properties and business operations are located. the insurance coverage contains policy specifications and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties, business activities and markets. we believe our properties and the properties of our unconsolidated entities are adequately insured. however, there are certain losses, including losses from floods, earthquakes, acts of war, acts of terrorism or riots, that are not generally insured against or that are not generally fully insured against because it is not deemed economically feasible or prudent to do so. if an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs with respect to one or more of our properties, we could experience a significant loss of capital invested and future revenues in these properties and could potentially remain obligated under any recourse debt associated with the property. furthermore, we cannot be sure that the insurance companies will be able to continue to offer products with sufficient coverage at commercially reasonable rates. if we experience a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds insured limits with respect to one or more of our properties or if the insurance companies fail to meet their coverage commitments to us in the event of an insured loss, then we could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties, as well as the anticipated future revenue from those properties and, if there is recourse debt, then we would remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the properties. any such losses or higher insurance costs could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities. investments in real estate properties are subject to risks that could adversely affect our business. investments in real estate properties are subject to varying degrees of risk. while we seek to minimize these risks through geographic diversification of our portfolio, market research and our property management capabilities, these risks cannot be eliminated. some of the factors that may affect real estate values include: local conditions, such as an oversupply of distribution space or a reduction in demand for distribution space in an area; the attractiveness of our properties to potential customers; competition from other available properties; increasing costs of rehabilitating, repositioning, renovating and making improvements to our properties; our ability to provide adequate maintenance of, and insurance on, our properties; our ability to control rents and variable operating costs; governmental regulations, including zoning, usage and tax laws and changes in these laws; and potential liability under, and changes in, environmental, zoning and other laws. our investments are concentrated in the industrial distribution sector and our business would be adversely affected by an economic downturn in that sector. our investments in real estate assets are primarily concentrated in the industrial distribution sector. this concentration may expose us to the risk of economic downturns in this sector to a greater extent than if our business activities were more diversified. our operating results and distributable cash flow will depend on the continued generation of lease revenues from customers and we may be unable to lease vacant space or renew leases or re-lease space on favorable terms as leases expire. our operating results and distributable cash flow would be adversely affected if a significant number of our customers were unable to meet their lease obligations. we are also subject to the risk that, upon the expiration of leases for space located in our properties, leases may not be renewed by existing customers, the space may not be re-leased to new customers or the terms of renewal or re-leasing (including the cost of 9 table of contents required renovations or concessions to customers) may be less favorable to us than current lease terms. our competitors may offer space at rental rates below current market rates or below the rental rates we currently charge our customers, we may lose potential customers, and we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we currently charge in order to retain customers when our customers leases expire. in the event of default by a significant number of customers, we may experience delays and incur substantial costs in enforcing our rights as landlord, and may be unable to re-lease spaces. a customer may experience a downturn in its business, which may cause the loss of the customer or may weaken its financial condition, resulting in the customer failure to make rental payments when due or requiring a restructuring that might reduce cash flow from the lease. in addition, a customer may seek the protection of bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws, which could result in the rejection and termination of such customer lease and thereby cause a reduction in our available cash flow. we may acquire properties, which involves risks that could adversely affect our operating results and the value of our securities. we may acquire industrial properties. the acquisition of properties involves risks, including the risk that the acquired property will not perform as anticipated and that any actual costs for rehabilitation, repositioning, renovation and improvements identified in the pre-acquisition due diligence process will exceed estimates. when we acquire properties, we may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local economy, forging new business relationships in the area and unfamiliarity with local government and permitting procedures. additionally, there is, and it is expected there will continue to be, significant competition for properties that meet our investment criteria as well as risks associated with obtaining financing for acquisition activities. our real estate development strategies may not be successful. our real estate development strategy is focused on monetizing land in the future through sales to third parties, development of industrial properties to hold for long-term investment or contribution or sale to an unconsolidated entity, depending on market conditions, our liquidity needs and other factors. we may expand investment in our development, renovation and redevelopment business and we will complete the build-out and leasing of our development platform. we may also develop, renovate and redevelop properties within existing or newly formed development co-investment ventures. the real estate development, renovation and redevelopment business involves significant risks that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities, which include the following risks: we may not be able to obtain financing for development projects on favorable terms or at all; we may not be able to obtain, or may experience delays in obtaining, all necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other governmental permits and authorizations; we may seek to sell certain land parcels and not be able to find a third party to acquire such land or the sales price will not allow us to recover our investment, resulting in impairment charges; development opportunities that we explore may be abandoned and the related investment impaired; the properties may perform below anticipated levels, producing cash flow below budgeted amounts; we may not be able to lease properties on favorable terms or at all; construction costs, total investment amounts and our share of remaining funding may exceed our estimates and projects may not be completed, delivered or stabilized as planned; we may not be able to attract third party investment in new development co-investment ventures or sufficient customer demand for our product; we may not be able to capture the anticipated enhanced value created by our redevelopment projects on expected timetables or at all; we may experience delays (temporary or permanent) if there is public or government opposition to our activities; and substantial renovation, new development and redevelopment activities, regardless of their ultimate success, typically require a significant amount of management time and attention, diverting their attention from our day-to-day operations. we are exposed to various environmental risks that may result in unanticipated losses that could affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flow. under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner, developer or operator of real estate may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances. the costs of removal or remediation of such substances could be substantial. such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release or presence of such hazardous substances. in addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages based on personal injury, property damage or other costs, including investigation and clean-up costs, resulting from the environmental contamination. 10 table of contents environmental laws in some countries, including the united states, also require that owners or operators of buildings containing asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos, adequately inform or train those who may come into contact with asbestos and undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, in the event that asbestos is disturbed during building renovation or demolition. these laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos. some of our properties are known to contain asbestos-containing building materials. in addition, some of our properties are leased or have been leased, in part, to owners and operators of businesses that use, store or otherwise handle petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, creating a potential for the release of such hazardous or toxic substances. further, certain of our properties are on, adjacent to or near other properties that have contained or currently contain petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, or upon which others have engaged, are engaged or may engage in activities that may release such hazardous or toxic substances. from time to time, we may acquire properties, or interests in properties, with known adverse environmental conditions where we believe that the environmental liabilities associated with these conditions are quantifiable and that the acquisition will yield a superior risk-adjusted return. in connection with certain divested properties, we have agreed to remain responsible for, and to bear the cost of, remediating or monitoring certain environmental conditions on the properties. we cannot give any assurance that other such conditions do not exist or may not arise in the future. the presence of such substances on our real estate properties could adversely affect our ability to lease, develop or sell such properties or to borrow using such properties as collateral and may have an adverse effect on our distributable cash flow. if we decide to contribute or sell properties to an unconsolidated entity or third parties to generate proceeds, we may not be successful. we may contribute or sell properties to certain of our unconsolidated entities or third parties on a case-by-case basis. our ability to sell properties on advantageous terms is affected by competition from other owners of properties that are trying to dispose of their properties; market conditions, including the capitalization rates applicable to our properties; and other factors beyond our control. if our competitors sell assets similar to assets we intend to divest in the same markets and/or at valuations below our valuations for comparable assets, we may be unable to divest our assets at favorable pricing or on favorable terms or at all. the unconsolidated entity or third parties who might acquire our properties may need to have access to debt and equity capital, in the private and public markets, in order to acquire properties from us. should they have limited or no access to capital on favorable terms, then dispositions could be delayed. if we are unable to generate proceeds through property sales we may have to delay our deleveraging plans, which may result in adverse effects on our liquidity, distributable cash flow, debt covenants, and the market price of our securities. we are subject to risks and liabilities in connection with forming co-investment ventures, investing in new or existing co-investment ventures, attracting third party investment and investing in and managing properties through co-investment ventures. as of december 31, 2013, we had an investment in real estate containing approximately 270 million square feet held through unconsolidated entities. our organizational documents do not limit the amount of available funds that we may invest in unconsolidated entities, and we may and currently intend to develop and acquire properties through co-investment ventures and investments in other entities when warranted by the circumstances. however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to form new co-investment ventures, attract third party investment or make additional investments in new or existing co-investment ventures, successfully develop or acquire properties through unconsolidated entities, or realize value from such unconsolidated entities. our inability to do so may have an adverse effect on our growth, our earnings and the market price of our securities. our partners in our unconsolidated investments may share certain approval rights over major decisions and some partners may manage the properties in the unconsolidated entities. our unconsolidated investments involve certain risks, including: if our partners fail to fund their share of any required capital contributions, then we may choose to contribute such capital; our partners might have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals that would affect our ability to operate the property; the venture or other governing agreements often restrict the transfer of an interest in the co-investment venture or may otherwise restrict our ability to sell the interest when we desire or on advantageous terms; our relationships with our partners are generally contractual in nature and may be terminated or dissolved under the terms of the agreements, and in such event, we may not continue to manage or invest in the assets underlying such relationships resulting in reduced fee revenue or causing a need to purchase such interest to continue ownership; and disputes between us and our partners may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and directors from focusing their time and effort on our business and result in subjecting the properties owned by the applicable co-investment venture to additional risk. we generally seek to maintain sufficient influence over our unconsolidated entities to permit us to achieve our business objectives; however, we may not be able to do so. we have formed publicly traded investment vehicles, like our publicly traded reit in japan, for which we serve as sponsor and/or manager. we have contributed, and may continue to contribute, assets into such vehicles. as with any of our publicly traded entities or funds, there is a risk that our managerial relationship may be terminated. 11 table of contents the occurrence of one or more of the events described above could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities. contingent or unknown liabilities could adversely affect our financial condition. we have acquired and may in the future acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities. as a result, if a liability were asserted against us based upon ownership of any of these entities or properties, then we might have to pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely affect our cash flow. risks related to financing and capital we face risks associated with the use of debt to fund our business activities, including refinancing and interest rate risks, and our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected if we are unable to make required payments on our debt or are unable to refinance our debt. we are subject to risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest. there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any maturing indebtedness, that such refinancing would be on terms as favorable as the terms of the maturing indebtedness, or that we will be able to otherwise obtain funds by selling assets or raising equity to make required payments on maturing indebtedness. if we are unable to refinance our indebtedness at maturity or meet our payment obligations, the amount of our distributable cash flow and our financial condition would be adversely affected and, if the maturing debt is secured, the lender may foreclose on the property securing such indebtedness. our global senior credit facility, japanese yen-based credit agreement and certain other debt bears interest at variable rates. increases in interest rates would increase our interest expense under these agreements. from time to time, we may enter into interest rate swap or cap agreements. such hedging arrangements involve risks, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements. the funds required to settle any swap breakage arrangements, if any, could be significant depending on the size of underlying financing and the applicable interest rates at the time of breakage. the failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. in addition, our unconsolidated entities may be unable to refinance indebtedness or meet payment obligations, which may impact our distributable cash flow and our financial condition and/or we may be required to recognize impairment charges of our investments. covenants in our credit agreements could limit our flexibility and breaches of these covenants could adversely affect our financial condition. the terms of our various credit agreements, including our global senior credit facility and japanese yen-based credit agreement, the indentures under which our senior notes are issued and other note agreements, require us to comply with a number of customary financial covenants, such as maintaining debt service coverage, leverage ratios, fixed charge ratios and other operating covenants including maintaining insurance coverage. these covenants may limit our flexibility in our operations, and breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable indebtedness. if we default under the covenant provisions and are unable to cure the default, refinance the indebtedness or meet payment obligations, the amount of our distributable cash flow and our financial condition could be adversely affected. adverse changes in our credit ratings could negatively affect our financing activity. the credit ratings of our senior unsecured notes and preferred stock are based on our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position and other factors employed by the credit rating agencies in their rating analyses of us. our credit ratings can affect the amount of capital we can access, as well as the terms and pricing of any debt we may incur. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings, and in the event our credit ratings are downgraded, we would likely incur higher borrowing costs and may encounter difficulty in obtaining additional financing. also, a downgrade in our credit ratings may trigger additional payments or other negative consequences under our current and future credit facilities and debt instruments. adverse changes in our credit ratings could negatively impact our refinancing and other capital market activities, our ability to manage debt maturities, our future growth, our financial condition, the market price of our securities, and our development and acquisition activity. we are dependent on external sources of capital . in order to qualify as a reit, we are required each year to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our reit taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends-paid deduction and by excluding any net capital gain) and we may be subject to tax to the extent our income is not fully distributed. while historically we have satisfied these distribution requirements by making cash distributions to our stockholders, we may choose to satisfy these requirements by making distributions of cash or other property, including, in limited circumstances, our own stock. for distributions with respect to taxable years ending on or before december 31, 2013, and in some cases declared as late as december 31, 2014, the reit can satisfy up to 90% of the distribution requirements discussed above through the distribution of shares of our stock if certain conditions are met. assuming we continue to satisfy these distribution requirements with cash, we may not be able to fund all future capital needs, including acquisition and development activities, from cash retained from operations and may have to rely on third-party sources of capital. further, in order to maintain our reit status and not have to pay federal income and excise taxes, we may need to borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the reit distribution requirements even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings. these short-term borrowing needs could result from differences in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for federal income tax purposes, or the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt or 12 table of contents amortization payments. our ability to access debt and equity capital on favorable terms or at all is dependent upon a number of factors, including general market conditions, the market perception of our growth potential, our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions and the market price of our securities. our stockholders may experience dilution if we issue additional common stock. any additional future issuance of common stock will reduce the percentage of our common stock owned by investors. in most circumstances, stockholders will not be entitled to vote on whether or not we issue additional common stock. in addition, depending on the terms and pricing of an additional offering of our common stock and the value of the properties, our stockholders may experience dilution in both book value and fair value of their common stock. federal income tax risks our failure to qualify as a reit would have serious adverse consequences. we elected to be taxed as a reit under sections 856 through 860 of the internal revenue code commencing with the taxable year ended december 31, 1997. we believe we have operated so as to qualify as a reit under the internal revenue code and believe that our current organization and method of operation comply with the rules and regulations promulgated under the internal revenue code to enable us to continue to qualify as a reit. however, it is possible that we are organized or have operated in a manner that would not allow us to qualify as a reit, or that our future operations could cause us to fail to qualify. qualification as a reit requires us to satisfy numerous requirements (some on an annual and others on a quarterly basis) established under highly technical and complex sections of the internal revenue code for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations, and involves the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. for example, in order to qualify as a reit, prologis must derive at least 95% of its gross income in any year from qualifying sources. in addition, we must pay dividends to our stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding capital gains) and must satisfy specified asset tests on a quarterly basis. the provisions of the internal revenue code and applicable treasury regulations regarding qualification as a reit are more complicated in our case because we hold assets through the operating partnership. if we fail to qualify as a reit in any taxable year, we will be required to pay federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on taxable income at regular corporate rates. unless we are entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from treatment as a reit for the four taxable years following the year in which we lost the qualification. if we lost our reit status, our net earnings would be significantly reduced for each of the years involved. furthermore, we own a direct or indirect interest in certain subsidiary reits which elected to be taxed as reits under sections 856 through 860 of the internal revenue code. provided that each subsidiary reit qualifies as a reit, our interest in such subsidiary reit will be treated as a qualifying real estate asset for purposes of the reit asset tests, and any dividend income or gains derived by us from such subsidiary reit will generally be treated as income that qualifies for purposes of the reit gross income tests. to qualify as a reit, the subsidiary reit must independently satisfy all of the reit qualification requirements. if such subsidiary reit were to fail to qualify as a reit, and certain relief provisions did not apply, it would be treated as a regular taxable corporation and its income would be subject to united states federal income tax. in addition, a failure of the subsidiary reit to qualify as a reit would have an adverse effect on our ability to comply with the reit income and asset tests, and thus our ability to qualify as a reit. certain property transfers may generate prohibited transaction income, resulting in a penalty tax on gain attributable to the transaction. from time to time, we may transfer or otherwise dispose of some of our properties, including by contributing properties to our co-investment ventures. under the internal revenue code, any gain resulting from transfers of properties we hold as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is treated as income from a prohibited transaction subject to a 100% penalty tax. we do not believe that our transfers or disposals of property or our contributions of properties into our co-investment ventures are prohibited transactions. however, whether property is held for investment purposes is a question of fact that depends on all the facts and circumstances surrounding the particular transaction. the internal revenue service may contend that certain transfers or dispositions of properties by us or contributions of properties into our co-investment ventures are prohibited transactions. while we believe that the internal revenue service would not prevail in any such dispute, if the internal revenue code were to argue successfully that a transfer, disposition, or contribution of property constituted a prohibited transaction, we would be required to pay a 100% penalty tax on any gain allocable to us from the prohibited transaction. in addition, income from a prohibited transaction might adversely affect our ability to satisfy the income tests for qualification as a reit. legislative or regulatory action could adversely affect us. in recent years, numerous legislative, judicial and administrative changes have been made to the federal income tax taws applicable to investments in reits and similar entities. additional changes to tax laws are likely to continue to occur in the future, and may impact our taxation or that of our stockholders. other risks risks associated with our dependence on key personnel. we depend on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. from time to time, our personnel and their roles may change. in connection with the completion of the merger, there were changes to our personnel and their roles. while we believe that we have retained 13 table of contents our key talent and have found suitable employees to meet our personnel needs, the loss of key personnel, any change in their roles, or the limitation of their availability could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to security holders and the market price of our securities. if we are unable to continue to attract and retain our executive officers, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain key employees become more expensive, our performance and competitive position could be materially adversely affected. compliance or failure to comply with the americans with disabilities act and other similar regulations could result in substantial costs. under the americans with disabilities act, places of public accommodation must meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the award of damages to private litigants. if we are required to make unanticipated expenditures to comply with the americans with disabilities act, including removing access barriers, then our cash flow and the amounts available to make distributions and payments to our security holders may be adversely affected. our properties are also subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life-safety requirements. we could incur fines or private damage awards if we fail to comply with these requirements. while we believe that our properties are currently in material compliance with these regulatory requirements, the requirements may change or new requirements may be imposed that could require significant unanticipated expenditures by us that will affect our cash flow and results of operations. our business could be adversely impacted if we have deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting. the design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors, misstatements or misrepresentations. while management will continue to review the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, there can be no guarantee that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. deficiencies, including any material weakness, in our internal control over financial reporting that may occur in the future could result in misstatements of our results of operations, restatements of our financial statements, a decline in the price of our securities, or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. we are exposed to the potential impacts of future climate change and climate change related risks. we consider that we are exposed to potential physical risks from possible future changes in climate. our distribution facilities may be exposed to rare catastrophic weather events, such as severe storms and/or floods. if the frequency of extreme weather events increases due to climate change, our exposure to these events could increase. we do not currently consider ourselves to be exposed to regulatory risks related to climate change, as our operations do not emit a significant amount of greenhouse gases. however, we may be adversely impacted as a real estate developer in the future by potential impacts to the supply chain and/or stricter energy efficiency standards for buildings. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and foreign-exchange related variability and earnings volatility on our foreign investments. we have used certain derivative financial instruments, primarily foreign currency forward contracts, to reduce our foreign currency market risk, as we deem appropriate. we have also used interest rate swap agreements to reduce our interest rate market risk. we do not use financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes and all financial instruments are entered into in accordance with established policies and procedures. we monitor our market risk exposures using a sensitivity analysis. our sensitivity analysis estimates the exposure to market risk sensitive instruments assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse change in interest rates at december 31, 2013. the results of the sensitivity analysis are 42 table of contents summarized below. the sensitivity analysis is of limited predictive value. as a result, our ultimate realized gains or losses with respect to interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations will depend on the exposures that arise during a future period, hedging strategies at the time and the prevailing interest and foreign currency exchange rates. the failure to hedge effectively against exchange and interest rate changes may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. foreign currency risk foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. our primary exposure to foreign currency exchange rates relates to the translation of the net income and net investment of our foreign entities into u.s. dollar, principally euro, british pound sterling and japanese yen, especially to the extent we wish to repatriate funds to the united states. we also have some exposure to movements in exchange rates related to certain intercompany loans we issue from time to time. to mitigate our foreign currency exchange exposure, we borrow in the functional currency of the borrowing entity, when appropriate. we also may use foreign currency forward contracts or other forms of hedging instruments to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with the projected net operating income or net equity of our foreign consolidated subsidiaries and unconsolidated entities. hedging arrangements involve risks, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements and the risk of fluctuation in the relative value of the foreign currency. the funds required to settle such arrangements could be significant depending on the stability and movement of foreign currency. the failure to hedge effectively against exchange and interest rate changes may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. we may experience fluctuations in our earnings as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. in 2013, we entered into seven foreign currency forward contracts that expire in june 2017 and june 2018 with an aggregate notional amount of 599.9 million ($800.0 million using the forward rate of 1.33) to hedge a portion of our investment in europe at a fixed euro rate in u.s. dollars. we also entered into three foreign currency forward contracts that expire in june 2018 with an aggregate notional amount of &yen;24.1 billion ($250.0 million using the forward rate of 96.54) to hedge a portion of our investment in japan at a fixed yen rate in u.s. dollars. based on a sensitivity analysis, a strengthening or weakening of the u.s. dollar against the euro and japanese yen by 10% would result in a $105.0 million positive or negative change, respectively, in our cash flows upon settlement of the forward contracts. these derivatives were designated and qualify as hedging instruments and therefore the changes in fair value of these derivatives will be recorded in the foreign currency translation component of accumulated other comprehensive loss in the consolidated balance sheets inrisk factors in this report. we undertake no duty to update any forward-looking statements appearing in this report except as may be required by law. part i item 1. business the company we are the global leader in industrial real estate, focused on markets across the americas, europe and asia. at december 31, 2014, we owned or had investments in, on a wholly-owned basis or through co-investment ventures, properties and development projects expected to total approximately 590 million square feet (55 million square meters) in 21 countries. we lease modern distribution facilities to more than 4,700 customers, including third-party logistics providers, transportation companies, retailers and manufacturers. details of the 590 million square feet, which represents an expected investment on an owned and managed basis of $45.6 billion, were as follows: 537 million square feet were in our operating portfolio with a gross book value of $40.6 billion and 96.1% occupancy; 40 million square feet were in our development portfolio with a total expected investment of $3.2 billion that were 40.9% leased; $1.8 billion of land was available for future development; 13 million square feet consisted of valued added properties, properties in which we have an ownership interest but do not manage and other non-industrial properties we own; and 2.1% and 18.6% of the annualized net effective rent were attributable to our largest customer and 25 largest customers, respectively. prologis, inc. began operating as a fully integrated real estate company in 1997 and elected to be taxed as a reit under the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended ( internal revenue code ). we believe the current organization and method of operation will enable prologis, inc. to maintain its status as a reit. the operating partnership also was formed in 1997. 4 table of contents our global corporate headquarters are at pier 1, bay 1, san francisco, california 94111, and our global operational headquarters are at 4545 airport way, denver, colorado 80239. other principal offices are in amsterdam, luxembourg, mexico city, sao paulo, shanghai, singapore and tokyo. our internet address is www.prologis.com. all reports required to be filed with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ) are available or can be accessed free of charge through the investor relations section of our website after we electronically submit material to the sec. the common stock of prologis, inc. is listed on the new york stock exchange ( nyse ) under the ticker pld and is a component of the standard &amp; poors ( s&amp;p ) 500. investment strategy both macroeconomics and demographics are important drivers of our business, including population growth, consumption and rising affluence. in developed markets, including in the u.s., europe and japan, the reconfiguration of supply chains, and the operational efficiencies that can be realized from our modern logistics facilities, are an important driver. in emerging markets, such as mexico, brazil and china, increases in affluence and the rise of consumer classes create demand as new supply chains are constructed. taken together, logistics real estate markets benefit from economic growth, but depend to a greater degree upon the modernization of supply chains around the world and demographic growth. we have investments in entities through a variety of ventures. we co-invest with partners and investors in entities that own multiple properties and provide asset and property management services to these entities. we refer to these entities as co-investment ventures. these entities may be consolidated or unconsolidated, depending on the structure, our partners participating and other rights and our level of control. the co-investment ventures may have one or more investors. our investment strategy focuses on providing distribution facilities to customers whose businesses are tied to global trade and depend on the efficient movement of goods through the global supply chain. we have a deep worldwide presence of $45.6 billion (based on expected investment) in our owned and managed portfolio spanning 21 countries on four continents. we classify our properties into two main market categories: global and regional. global markets comprise approximately 30 of the largest markets tied to global trade. they feature large population centers with high per-capita consumption rates and are near major airports, seaports and ground transportation systems. regional markets benefit from large population centers but typically are not as tied to the global supply chain; instead, they serve local consumption and are less supply constrained. we intend to hold primarily class-a product in our global and regional markets. at december 31, 2014, global and regional markets represented approximately 86% and 13%, respectively, of our owned and managed portfolio (based on our share of the properties gross book value). we also have a small investment in other markets that accounts for approximately 1% of our owned and managed portfolio. we have deep knowledge of our local markets, construction expertise and a commitment to sustainable design across our portfolio. we are supported by a broad and diverse customer base and have relationships with multinational corporations that bring us repeat business across our portfolio. for more detail on our properties, see item 2. properties. business strategy and operating segments our business comprises two operating segments: real estate operations and strategic capital. real estate operations rental operations. rental operations represent the main source of our revenues, earnings and funds from operations ( ffo ). see definition and a complete reconciliation of net earnings to ffo in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. we collect rent from our customers through operating leases, including reimbursements for the majority of our operating costs. we expect to generate long-term internal growth in rental income by maintaining high occupancy rates, controlling expenses and through rent increases. our rental income is diversified due to our global presence and broad customer base. we believe our property management, leasing and maintenance teams, together with our capital expenditure, energy management and risk management programs, create cost efficiencies that allow us to capitalize on the economies of scale inherent in owning, operating and growing a global portfolio. capital deployment. capital deployment includes the development, re-development and acquisition of industrial properties that lead to rental operations and is therefore included with rental operations for segment reporting. we deploy capital primarily in global and regional markets to meet our customers needs. we capitalize on the following: (i) our land bank; (ii) the development expertise of our local teams; (iii) our global customer relationships; and (iv) the demand for high-quality distribution facilities. we aim to increase our rental income and the company net asset value by leasing newly developed space and acquiring operating properties. we develop properties for long-term hold, for contribution to our co-investment ventures and, occasionally, for sale to third parties. strategic capital we invest with partners and investors through private and public ventures which may be consolidated or unconsolidated. we tailor industrial portfolios to investors specific needs, with a focus on long-term ventures and open-ended funds. we also access alternative sources of equity through publicly traded vehicles such as nippon prologis reit, inc. ( npr ) and fibra prologis. these private and public vehicles provide capital for distinct geographies across our global platform. we hold a significant ownership interest in these ventures, aligning our interests with those of our partners. we generate strategic capital revenues from our unconsolidated ventures through asset 5 table of contents management and property management services and we earn additional revenues from leasing, acquisition, construction, development and disposition services provided. depending on the structure of the venture and the returns provided to our partners, we also earn revenues through incentive fees during the life of a venture or upon liquidation (we refer to these incentive fees as promotes). we believe our co-investment ventures will continue to serve as a source of capital for investments, provide incremental revenues and mitigate risk associated with our foreign currency exposure. we plan to grow this business generally through existing ventures. competition competitively priced distribution space could impact our occupancy rates and have an adverse effect on how much rent we can charge, which in turn could affect both of our operating segments. to the extent we wish to acquire land for development or dispose of land, we may compete with local, regional and national operators and/or developers. we also face competition from investment managers for institutional capital within our strategic capital business. we believe we have competitive advantages due to our: ability to respond quickly to customers needs for high-quality distribution space in key global and regional markets; established relationships with key customers served by our local teams; ability to leverage our organizational scale and structure to provide a single point of contact for global customers through the prologis global customer solutions team; property management and leasing expertise; relationships and proven track record with current and prospective investors in our strategic capital business; global experience developing and managing industrial properties; well-positioned land bank; and team members with experience in the land entitlement process. customers our broad customer base represents a spectrum of international, national, regional and local distribution users. at december 31, 2014, in real estate operations, we had more than 3,900 customers occupying 271.6 million square feet of distribution space. on an owned and managed basis, we had more than 4,700 customers occupying 519.1 million square feet of distribution space. our largest customer and 25 largest customers accounted for 1.9% and 19.5%, respectively, of our net effective rent at december 31, 2014, for real estate operations and 2.1% and 18.6%, respectively, for our owned and managed portfolio. in strategic capital, we view our partners and investors as our customers. at december 31, 2014, in our private ventures, we partnered with more than 100 investors, several of which invest in multiple ventures. employees we employ 1,505 people across the globe. our employees work in four countries in the americas (900 people), 14 countries in europe (360 people) and three countries in asia (245 people). of the total, we have assigned 955 employees to real estate operations and 90 employees to strategic capital. further, we have 460 individuals who work in corporate and support positions that support both segments. we believe we have good relationships with our employees. prologis employees are not organized under collective bargaining agreements, although some employees in europe are represented by statutory works councils and as such they benefit from applicable labor agreements. code of ethics and business conduct we maintain a code of ethics and business conduct applicable to our board of directors ( board ) and all of our officers and employees, including the principal executive officer, the principal financial officer and the principal accounting officer, or persons performing similar functions. a copy of our code of ethics and business conduct is available on our website, www.prologis.com. in addition to being accessible through our website, copies of our code of ethics and business conduct can be obtained, free of charge, upon written request to investor relations, pier 1, bay 1, san francisco, california 94111. any amendments to or waivers of our code of ethics and business conduct that apply to the principal executive officer, the principal financial officer, or the principal accounting officer, or persons performing similar functions, and that relate to any matter enumerated in item 406(b) of regulation s-k, will be disclosed on our website. environmental matters we are exposed to various environmental risks that may result in unanticipated losses and affect our operating results and financial condition. either the previous owners or we have subjected a majority of the properties we have acquired, including land, to environmental reviews. while some of these assessments have led to further investigation and sampling, none of the environmental assessments has revealed an 6 table of contents environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see item 1a. risk factors and note 19 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8. insurance coverage we carry insurance coverage on our properties. we determine the type of coverage and the policy specifications and limits based on what we deem to be the risks associated with our ownership of properties and our business operations in specific markets. such coverage typically includes property damage and rental loss insurance resulting from such perils as fire, windstorm, flood, earthquake and terrorism; commercial general liability insurance; and environmental insurance. insurance is maintained through a combination of commercial insurance, self insurance and through a wholly-owned captive insurance entity. the costs to insure our properties are primarily covered through reimbursements from our customers. we believe that our insurance coverage contains policy specifications and insured limits that are customary for similar properties, business activities and markets and we believe our properties are adequately insured. see further discussion in item 1a. risk factors. item 1a. risk factors our operations and structure involve various risks that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, distributable cash flow and value of our securities. these risks include, among others: general as a global company, we are subject to social, political and economic risks of doing business in many countries. we conduct a significant portion of our business and employ a substantial number of people outside of the united states. during 2014, we generated approximately $369.6 million or 21.0% of our revenue from operations outside the united states. circumstances and developments related to international operations that could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow include, but are not limited to, the following factors: difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations in certain regions; differing employment practices and labor issues; local businesses and cultural factors that differ from our usual standards and practices; volatility in currencies; currency restrictions, which may prevent the transfer of capital and profits to the united states; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and other laws; potentially adverse tax consequences; the responsibility of complying with multiple and potentially conflicting laws, e.g., with respect to corrupt practices, employment and licensing; the impact of regional or country-specific business cycles and economic instability; political instability, uncertainty over property rights, civil unrest, drug trafficking, political activism or the continuation or escalation of terrorist or gang activities (particularly with respect to our operations in mexico); foreign ownership restrictions in operations with the respective countries; and access to capital may be more restricted, or unavailable on favorable terms or at all in certain locations. our global growth also subjects us to certain risks, including risks associated with funding increasing headcount, integrating new offices, and establishing effective controls and procedures to regulate the operations of new offices and to monitor compliance with regulations such as the foreign corrupt practices act, the united kingdom bribery act and similar laws. although we have committed substantial resources to expand our global platform, if we are unable to successfully manage the risks associated with our global business or to adequately manage operational fluctuations, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow could be harmed. in addition, we may be impacted by, the ability of our non-united states subsidiaries to dividend or otherwise transfer cash among our subsidiaries, including transfers of cash to pay interest and principal on our debt, due to by currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations and potentially adverse tax consequences, among other things. the depreciation in the value of the foreign currency in countries where we have a significant investment may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. we have pursued, and intend to continue to pursue, growth opportunities in international markets where the u.s. dollar is not the functional currency. at december 31, 2014, approximately $6.4 billion or 24.9% of our total assets are invested in a currency other than the u.s. dollar, 7 table of contents primarily the british pound sterling, euro and japanese yen. as a result, we are subject to foreign currency risk due to potential fluctuations in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the u.s. dollar. a significant change in the value of the foreign currency of one or more countries where we have a significant investment may have a material adverse effect on our u.s. dollar reported financial position, debt covenant ratios, results of operations and cash flow. although we attempt to mitigate adverse effects by borrowing under debt agreements denominated in foreign currencies and using derivative contracts, there can be no assurance that those attempts to mitigate foreign currency risk will be successful. hedging arrangements involve risks, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements and the risk of fluctuation in the relative value of the foreign currency. the funds required to settle such arrangements could be significant depending on the stability and movement of the hedged foreign currency. the failure to hedge effectively against exchange rate changes may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. disruptions in the global capital and credit markets may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. to the extent there is turmoil in the global financial markets, it has the potential to adversely affect the value of our properties and investments in our unconsolidated entities, the availability or the terms of financing that we and our unconsolidated entities have or may anticipate utilizing, our ability and that of our unconsolidated entities to make principal and interest payments on, or refinance any outstanding debt when due and may impact the ability of our customers to enter into new leasing transactions or satisfy rental payments under existing leases. any additional, continued or recurring disruptions in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities. risks related to our business real estate investments are not as liquid as certain other types of assets, which may reduce economic returns to investors. real estate investments are not as liquid as certain other types of investments and this lack of liquidity may limit our ability to react promptly to changes in economic or other conditions. in addition, significant expenditures associated with real estate investments, such as secured mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs, are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from the investments. like other companies qualifying as reits under the internal revenue code, we are only able to hold property for sale in the ordinary course of business through taxable reit subsidiaries in order to not incur punitive taxation on any tax gain from the sale of such property. while we may dispose of certain properties that have been held for investment in order to generate liquidity, if we do not satisfy certain safe harbors or we believe there is too much risk of incurring the punitive tax on any tax gain from the sale, we may not pursue such sales. in the event that we do not have sufficient cash available to us through our operations or available credit facilities to continue operating our business as usual, we may need to find alternative ways to increase our liquidity. such alternatives may include, without limitation, divesting ourselves of properties, whether or not they otherwise meet our strategic objectives to keep in the long term, at less than optimal terms, incurring debt, entering into leases with new customers at lower rental rates or less than optimal terms or entering into lease renewals with our existing customers without an increase in rental rates. there can be no assurance, however, that such alternative ways to increase our liquidity will be available to us. additionally, taking such measures to increase our liquidity may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, our ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities. general economic conditions and other events or occurrences that affect areas in which our properties are geographically concentrated, may impact financial results. we are exposed to general economic conditions, local, regional, national and international economic conditions and other events and occurrences that affect the markets in which we own properties. our operating performance is further impacted by the economic conditions of the specific markets in which we have concentrations of properties. at december 31, 2014, approximately 33.6% of our consolidated operating properties or $6.3 billion (based on investment before depreciation) are located in california, which represented 25.9% of the aggregate square footage of our operating properties and 31.9% of our net operating income. our revenue from, and the value of, our properties located in california may be affected by local real estate conditions (such as an oversupply of or reduced demand for industrial properties) and the local economic climate. business layoffs, downsizing, industry slowdowns, changing demographics and other factors may adversely impact california economic climate. because of the number of properties we have located in california, a downturn in california economy or real estate conditions could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities. in addition to california, we also have significant holdings (defined as more than 3% of total investment before depreciation) in operating properties in certain global and regional markets located in central &amp; eastern pennsylvania, chicago, dallas/fort worth, new jersey/new york city, south florida and canada. our operating performance could be adversely affected if conditions become less favorable in any of the markets in which we have a concentration of properties. conditions such as an oversupply of distribution space or a reduction in demand for distribution space, among other factors, may impact operating conditions. any material oversupply of distribution space or material reduction in demand for distribution space could adversely affect our results of operations, distributable cash flow and the value of our securities. in addition, the unconsolidated co-investment ventures in which we invest have concentrations of properties in the same markets mentioned above, as well as in markets in france, germany, japan, mexico, the netherlands, poland and the united kingdom, and are subject to the economic conditions in those markets. 8 table of contents a number of our investments, both wholly-owned and owned through co-investment ventures, are located in areas that are known to be subject to earthquake activity. united states properties located in active seismic areas include properties in the san francisco bay area, los angeles, and seattle. international properties located in active seismic areas include japan and mexico. we generally carry earthquake insurance on our properties located in areas historically subject to seismic activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles if we believe it is commercially reasonable. we evaluate our earthquake insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants and in some specific instances have elected to self insure our earthquake exposure based on this analysis. we have elected not to carry earthquake insurance for our assets in japan based on this analysis. further, a number of our properties are located in areas that are known to be subject to hurricane and/or flood risk. we carry hurricane and flood hazard insurance on all of our properties located in areas historically subject to such activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles if we believe it is commercially reasonable. we evaluate our insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants. our insurance coverage does not include all potential losses. we and our unconsolidated co-investment ventures currently carry insurance coverage including property damage and rental loss insurance resulting from certain perils such as fire and additional perils as covered under an extended coverage policy, namely windstorm, flood, earthquake and terrorism; commercial general liability insurance; and environmental insurance, as appropriate for the markets where each of our properties and business operations are located. the insurance coverage contains policy specifications and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties, business activities and markets. we believe our properties and the properties of our unconsolidated co-investment ventures are adequately insured. however, there are certain losses, including losses from floods, earthquakes, acts of war, acts of terrorism or riots, that are not generally insured against or that are not generally fully insured against because it is not deemed economically feasible or prudent to do so. if an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs with respect to one or more of our properties, we could experience a significant loss of capital invested and future revenues in these properties and could potentially remain obligated under any recourse debt associated with the property. furthermore, we cannot be sure that the insurance companies will be able to continue to offer products with sufficient coverage at commercially reasonable rates. if we experience a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds insured limits with respect to one or more of our properties or if the insurance companies fail to meet their coverage commitments to us in the event of an insured loss, then we could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties, as well as the anticipated future revenue from those properties and, if there is recourse debt, then we would remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the properties. any such losses or higher insurance costs could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities. investments in real estate properties are subject to risks that could adversely affect our business. investments in real estate properties are subject to varying degrees of risk. while we seek to minimize these risks through geographic diversification of our portfolio, market research and our property management capabilities, these risks cannot be eliminated. some of the factors that may affect real estate values include: local conditions, such as an oversupply of distribution space or a reduction in demand for distribution space in an area; the attractiveness of our properties to potential customers; competition from other available properties; increasing costs of rehabilitating, repositioning, renovating and making improvements to our properties; our ability to provide adequate maintenance of, and insurance on, our properties; our ability to control rents and variable operating costs; governmental regulations, including zoning, usage and tax laws and changes in these laws; and potential liability under, and changes in, environmental, zoning and other laws. our investments are concentrated in the industrial distribution sector and our business would be adversely affected by an economic downturn in that sector. our investments in real estate assets are primarily concentrated in the industrial distribution sector. this concentration may expose us to the risk of economic downturns in this sector to a greater extent than if our business activities were more diversified. our operating results and distributable cash flow will depend on the continued generation of lease revenues from customers and we may be unable to lease vacant space or renew leases or re-lease space on favorable terms as leases expire. our operating results and distributable cash flow would be adversely affected if a significant number of our customers were unable to meet their lease obligations. we are also subject to the risk that, upon the expiration of leases for space located in our properties, leases may not be 9 table of contents renewed by existing customers, the space may not be re-leased to new customers or the terms of renewal or re-leasing (including the cost of required renovations or concessions to customers) may be less favorable to us than current lease terms. our competitors may offer space at rental rates below current market rates or below the rental rates we currently charge our customers, we may lose potential customers, and we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we currently charge in order to retain customers when our customers leases expire. in the event of default by a significant number of customers, we may experience delays and incur substantial costs in enforcing our rights as landlord, and may be unable to re-lease spaces. a customer may experience a downturn in its business, which may cause the loss of the customer or may weaken its financial condition, resulting in the customer failure to make rental payments when due or requiring a restructuring that might reduce cash flow from the lease. in addition, a customer may seek the protection of bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws, which could result in the rejection and termination of such customer lease and thereby cause a reduction in our available cash flow. we may acquire properties, which involves risks that could adversely affect our operating results and the value of our securities. we have acquired properties and will continue to acquire properties, both through the direct acquisition of real estate and through the acquisition of entities that own the real estate. the acquisition of properties involves risks, including the risk that the acquired property will not perform as anticipated and that any actual costs for rehabilitation, repositioning, renovation and improvements identified in the pre-acquisition due diligence process will exceed estimates. when we acquire properties, we may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local economy, forging new business relationships in the area and unfamiliarity with local government and permitting procedures. additionally, there is, and it is expected there will continue to be, significant competition for properties that meet our investment criteria as well as risks associated with obtaining financing for acquisition activities. the acquired properties or entities may also be subject to liabilities, which may be without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities. as a result, if a liability were asserted against us based upon ownership of any of these entities or properties, then we may have to pay substantial sums to settle it. our real estate development strategies may not be successful. our real estate development strategy is focused on monetizing land in the future through sales to third parties, development of industrial properties to hold for long-term investment or contribution or sale to a co-investment venture, depending on market conditions, our liquidity needs and other factors. we may increase our investment in the development, renovation and redevelopment business and we will complete the build-out and leasing of our development portfolio. we may also develop, renovate and redevelop properties within existing or newly formed development co-investment ventures. the real estate development, renovation and redevelopment business involves significant risks that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities, which include the following risks: we may not be able to obtain financing for development projects on favorable terms or at all; we may not be able to obtain, or may experience delays in obtaining, all necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other governmental permits and authorizations; we may seek to sell certain land parcels and not be able to find a third party to acquire such land or the sales price will not allow us to recover our investment, resulting in impairment charges; development opportunities that we explore may be abandoned and the related investment impaired; the properties may perform below anticipated levels, producing cash flow below budgeted amounts; we may not be able to lease properties on favorable terms or at all; construction costs, total investment amounts and our share of remaining funding may exceed our estimates and projects may not be completed, delivered or stabilized as planned; we may not be able to attract third-party investment in new development co-investment ventures or sufficient customer demand for our product; we may not be able to capture the anticipated enhanced value created by our redevelopment projects on expected timetables or at all; we may experience delays (temporary or permanent) if there is public or government opposition to our activities; and substantial renovation, new development and redevelopment activities, regardless of their ultimate success, typically require a significant amount of management time and attention, diverting their attention from our day-to-day operations. we are exposed to various environmental risks that may result in unanticipated losses that could affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flow. under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner, developer or operator of real estate may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances. the costs of removal or remediation of such substances could be substantial. such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release or presence of such hazardous substances. in addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages based on personal injury, property damage or other costs, including investigation and clean-up costs, resulting from the environmental contamination . 10 table of contents environmental laws in some countries, including the united states, also require that owners or operators of buildings containing asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos, adequately inform or train those who may come into contact with asbestos and undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, in the event that asbestos is disturbed during building renovation or demolition. these laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos. some of our properties are known to contain asbestos-containing building materials. in addition, some of our properties are leased or have been leased, in part, to owners and operators of businesses that use, store or otherwise handle petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, creating a potential for the release of such hazardous or toxic substances. further, certain of our properties are on, adjacent to or near other properties that have contained or currently contain petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, or upon which others have engaged, are engaged or may engage in activities that may release such hazardous or toxic substances. from time to time, we may acquire properties, or interests in properties, with known adverse environmental conditions where we believe that the environmental liabilities associated with these conditions are quantifiable and that the acquisition will yield a superior risk-adjusted return. in connection with certain divested properties, we have agreed to remain responsible for, and to bear the cost of, remediating or monitoring certain environmental conditions on the properties. we cannot give any assurance that other such conditions do not exist or may not arise in the future. the presence of such substances on our real estate properties could adversely affect our ability to lease, develop or sell such properties or to borrow using such properties as collateral, and may have an adverse effect on our distributable cash flow. if we decide to contribute or sell properties to unconsolidated co-investment ventures or third parties to generate proceeds, we may not be successful. we may decide to contribute or sell properties to certain of our unconsolidated co-investment ventures or third parties depending on a number of factors. our ability to sell properties on advantageous terms is affected by: competition from other owners of properties that are trying to dispose of their properties; market conditions, including the capitalization rates applicable to our properties; and other factors beyond our control. if our competitors sell assets similar to assets we intend to divest in the same markets and/or at valuations below our valuations for comparable assets, we may be unable to divest our assets at favorable pricing or at all. the unconsolidated co-investment venture or third party who might acquire our properties may need to have access to debt and equity capital, in the private and public markets, in order to acquire properties from us. should they have limited or no access to capital on favorable terms, then dispositions could be delayed. if we are unable to generate proceeds through property sales, this may result in adverse effects on our liquidity, distributable cash flow, debt covenants, and the market price of our securities. we are subject to risks and liabilities in connection with forming co-investment ventures, investing in new or existing co-investment ventures, attracting third-party investment and investing in and managing properties through co-investment ventures. at december 31, 2014, we had an investment in real estate containing approximately 261 million square feet held through unconsolidated co-investment ventures, both public and private. our organizational documents do not limit the amount of available funds that we may invest in unconsolidated ventures, and we may and currently intend to develop and acquire properties through co-investment ventures and investments in other entities when warranted by the circumstances. however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to form new co-investment ventures, attract third-party investment or make additional investments in new or existing ventures, successfully develop or acquire properties through unconsolidated ventures, or realize value from such investments. our inability to do so may have an adverse effect on our growth, results of operations, cash flows and the market price of our securities. our co-investment ventures involve certain additional risks that we do not otherwise face, including: our partners may share certain approval rights over major decisions made on behalf of the ventures; if our partners fail to fund their share of any required capital contributions, then we may choose to contribute such capital; our partners might have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals that would affect our ability to operate the property; the venture or other governing agreements often restrict the transfer of an interest in the co-investment venture or may otherwise restrict our ability to sell the interest when we desire or on advantageous terms; our relationships with our partners are generally contractual in nature and may be terminated or dissolved under the terms of the agreements, and in such event, we may not continue to manage or invest in the assets underlying such relationships resulting in reduced fee revenue or causing a need to purchase such interest to continue ownership; and disputes between us and our partners may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and directors from focusing their time and effort on our business and result in subjecting the properties owned by the applicable co-investment venture to additional risk. we generally seek to maintain sufficient influence over our co-investment ventures to permit us to achieve our business objectives; however, we may not be able to continue to do so indefinitely. we have formed publicly traded investment vehicles, such as npr and fibra prologis, for which we serve as sponsor and/or manager. we have contributed, and may continue to contribute, assets into such vehicles. there is a risk that our managerial relationship may be terminated. 11 table of contents the occurrence of one or more of the events described above could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities. risks related to financing and capital we face risks associated with the use of debt to fund our business activities, including refinancing and interest rate risks, which may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition if we are unable to make required payments on our debt or are unable to refinance our debt. we are subject to risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest. there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any maturing indebtedness, that such refinancing would be on terms as favorable as the terms of the maturing indebtedness, or that we will be able to otherwise obtain funds by selling assets or raising equity to make required payments on maturing indebtedness. if we are unable to refinance our indebtedness at maturity or meet our payment obligations, the amount of our distributable cash flow and our financial condition would be adversely affected and, if the maturing debt is secured, the lender may foreclose on the property securing such indebtedness. our credit facilities and certain other debt bears interest at variable rates. increases in interest rates would increase our interest expense under these agreements. from time to time, we may enter into interest rate swap or cap agreements. such hedging arrangements involve risks, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements. the funds required to settle any swap breakage arrangements, if any, could be significant depending on the size of the underlying financing and the applicable interest rates at the time of breakage. the failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. in addition, our co-investment ventures may be unable to refinance indebtedness or meet payment obligations, which may impact our distributable cash flow and our financial condition. covenants in our credit agreements could limit our flexibility and breaches of these covenants could adversely affect our financial condition. the terms of our various credit agreements, including our credit facilities, the indentures under which our senior notes are issued and other note agreements, require us to comply with a number of customary financial covenants, such as maintaining debt service coverage, leverage ratios, fixed charge ratios and other operating covenants including maintaining insurance coverage. these covenants may limit our flexibility in our operations, and breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable indebtedness. if we default under the covenant provisions and are unable to cure the default, refinance the indebtedness or meet payment obligations, the amount of our distributable cash flow, our operating results and our financial condition could be adversely affected. adverse changes in our credit ratings could negatively affect our financing activity. the credit ratings of our senior unsecured notes and preferred stock are based on our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position and other factors employed by the credit rating agencies in their rating analyses of us. our credit ratings can affect the amount of capital we can access, as well as the terms and pricing of any debt we may incur. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings, and in the event our credit ratings are downgraded, we would likely incur higher borrowing costs and may encounter difficulty in obtaining additional financing. also, a downgrade in our credit ratings may trigger additional payments or other negative consequences under our current and future credit facilities and debt instruments. adverse changes in our credit ratings could negatively impact our refinancing and other capital market activities, our ability to manage debt maturities, our future growth, our financial condition, the market price of our securities, and our development and acquisition activity. at december 31, 2014, our credit ratings were baa1 from moody and bbb+ from s&amp;p, both with outlook stable. a securities rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating organization. we are dependent on external sources of capital. in order to qualify as a reit, we are required each year to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our reit taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends-paid deduction and by excluding any net capital gain) and we may be subject to tax to the extent our taxable income is not fully distributed. while historically we have satisfied these distribution requirements by making cash distributions to our stockholders, we may choose to satisfy these requirements by making distributions of cash or other property, including, in limited circumstances, our own stock. for distributions with respect to taxable years ending on or before december 31, 2014, and in some cases declared as late as december 31, 2015, the reit can satisfy up to 90% of the distribution requirements discussed above through the distribution of shares of our stock if certain conditions are met. assuming we continue to satisfy these distribution requirements with cash, we may not be able to fund all future capital needs, including acquisition and development activities, from cash retained from operations and may have to rely on third-party sources of capital. further, in order to maintain our reit status and not have to pay federal income and excise taxes, we may need to borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the reit distribution requirements even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings. these short-term borrowing needs could result from differences in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for federal income tax purposes, or the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt or amortization payments. our ability to access debt and equity capital on favorable terms or at all is dependent upon a number of factors, including general market conditions, the market perception of our growth potential, our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions and the market price of our securities. 12 table of contents our stockholders may experience dilution if we issue additional common stock or units in the operating partnership. any additional future issuance of common stock or operating partnership units will reduce the percentage of our common stock/units owned by investors. in most circumstances, stockholders/unitholders will not be entitled to vote on whether or not we issue additional common stock/units. in addition, depending on the terms and pricing of any additional offering of our common stock/units and the value of the properties, our stockholders/unitholders may experience dilution in both book value and fair value of their common stock/units. federal income tax risks our failure of prologis, inc. to qualify as a reit would have serious adverse consequences. prologis, inc. elected to be taxed as a reit under sections 856 through 860 of the internal revenue code commencing with the taxable year ended december 31, 1997. we believe we have operated prologis, inc. to qualify as a reit under the internal revenue code and believe that the current organization and method of operation comply with the rules and regulations promulgated under the internal revenue code to enable prologis, inc. to continue to qualify as a reit. however, it is possible that we are organized or have operated in a manner that would not allow prologis, inc. to qualify as a reit, or that our future operations could cause prologis, inc. to fail to qualify. qualification as a reit requires us to satisfy numerous requirements (some annually and others on a quarterly basis) established under highly technical and complex sections of the internal revenue code for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations, and involves the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. for example, in order to qualify as a reit, prologis, inc. must derive at least 95% of its gross income in any year from qualifying sources. in addition, prologis, inc. must pay dividends to its stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of its taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding capital gains) and must satisfy specified asset tests on a quarterly basis. the provisions of the internal revenue code and applicable treasury regulations regarding qualification as a reit are more complicated for prologis, inc. because we hold assets through the operating partnership. if prologis, inc. fails to qualify as a reit in any taxable year, we will be required to pay federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on taxable income at regular corporate rates. unless we are entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, prologis, inc. would be disqualified from treatment as a reit for the four taxable years following the year in which it lost the qualification. if prologis, inc. lost its reit status, our net earnings would be significantly reduced for each of the years involved. furthermore, we own a direct or indirect interest in certain subsidiary reits which elected to be taxed as reits under sections 856 through 860 of the internal revenue code. provided that each subsidiary reit qualifies as a reit, our interest in such subsidiary reit will be treated as a qualifying real estate asset for purposes of the reit asset tests, and any dividend income or gains derived by us from such subsidiary reit will generally be treated as income that qualifies for purposes of the reit gross income tests. to qualify as a reit, the subsidiary reit must independently satisfy all of the reit qualification requirements. if such subsidiary reit were to fail to qualify as a reit, and certain relief provisions did not apply, it would be treated as a regular taxable corporation and its income would be subject to united states federal income tax. in addition, a failure of the subsidiary reit to qualify as a reit would have an adverse effect the ability of prologis, inc. to comply with the reit income and asset tests, and thus its ability to qualify as a reit. certain property transfers may generate prohibited transaction income, resulting in a penalty tax on gain attributable to the transaction. from time to time, we may transfer or otherwise dispose of some of our properties, including by contributing properties to our co-investment ventures. under the internal revenue code, any gain resulting from transfers of properties we hold as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is treated as income from a prohibited transaction subject to a 100% penalty tax. we do not believe that our transfers or disposals of property or our contributions of properties into our co-investment ventures are prohibited transactions. however, whether property is held for investment purposes is a question of fact that depends on all the facts and circumstances surrounding the particular transaction. the internal revenue service may contend that certain transfers or dispositions of properties by us or contributions of properties into our co-investment ventures are prohibited transactions. while we believe that the internal revenue service would not prevail in any such dispute, if the internal revenue code were to argue successfully that a transfer, disposition or contribution of property constituted a prohibited transaction, we would be required to pay a 100% penalty tax on any gain allocable to us from the prohibited transaction. in addition, income from a prohibited transaction might adversely affect our ability to satisfy the income tests for qualification as a reit. legislative or regulatory action could adversely affect us. in recent years, numerous legislative, judicial and administrative changes have been made to the federal income tax taws applicable to investments in reits and similar entities. additional changes to tax laws are likely to continue to occur in the future, and may impact our taxation or that of our stockholders. other risks our business and operations could suffer in the event of system failures or cyber security attacks. despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from any number of sources, including energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war, telecommunication failures and cyber security attacks, such as computer viruses or unauthorized access. any system failure or accident that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to our business. we may also incur additional costs to remedy damages caused by such disruptions. any compromise of our security could also result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, unauthorized access to information of ours and others, significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, loss or misuse of the information and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could harm our business. 13 table of contents risks associated with our dependence on key personnel. we depend on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. from time to time, our personnel and their roles may change. while we believe that we retain our key talent and find suitable employees to meet our personnel needs, the loss of key personnel, any change in their roles or the limitation of their availability could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to security holders and the market price of our securities. if we are unable to continue to attract and retain our executive officers, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain key employees become more expensive, our performance and competitive position could be materially adversely affected. compliance or failure to comply with the americans with disabilities act and other similar regulations could result in substantial costs. under the americans with disabilities act, places of public accommodation must meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the award of damages to private litigants. if we are required to make unanticipated expenditures to comply with the americans with disabilities act, including removing access barriers, then our cash flow and the amounts available to make distributions and payments to our security holders may be adversely affected. our properties are also subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life-safety requirements. we could incur fines or private damage awards if we fail to comply with these requirements. while we believe that our properties are currently in material compliance with these regulatory requirements, the requirements may change or new requirements may be imposed that could require significant unanticipated expenditures by us that will affect our cash flow and results of operations. our business could be adversely impacted if we have deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting. the design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors, misstatements or misrepresentations. while management continually reviews the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, there can be no guarantee that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. deficiencies, including any material weakness, in our internal control over financial reporting that may occur in the future could result in misstatements of our results of operations, restatements of our financial statements, a decline in the price of our securities, or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. we are exposed to the potential impacts of future climate change and climate change-related risks. we are exposed to potential physical risks from possible future changes in climate. our distribution facilities may be exposed to rare catastrophic weather events, such as severe storms and/or floods. if the frequency of extreme weather events increases due to climate change, our exposure to these events could increase. we do not currently consider ourselves to be exposed to regulatory risks related to climate change, as our operations do not emit a significant amount of greenhouse gases. however, we may be adversely impacted as a real estate developer in the future by potential impacts to the supply chain and/or stricter energy efficiency standards for buildings. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and foreign-exchange related variability and earnings volatility on our foreign investments. see our risk factors in item 1a. risk factors, specifically: the depreciation in the value of the foreign currency in countries where we have a significant investment may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position and we face risks associated with the use of debt to fund our business activities, including refinancing and interest rate risks, which may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition if we are unable to make required payments on our debt or are unable to refinance our debt . see also notes 2 and 18 in the consolidated financial statements in item 8 for more information about our foreign operations and derivative financial instruments. we monitor our market risk exposures using a sensitivity analysis. our sensitivity analysis estimates the exposure to market risk sensitive instruments assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse change in exchange or interest rates at december 31, 2014. the results of the sensitivity analysis are summarized below. the sensitivity analysis is of limited predictive value. as a result, our ultimate realized gains or losses with respect to interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations will depend on the exposures that arise during a future period, hedging strategies at the time and the prevailing interest and foreign currency exchange rates. foreign currency risk we are exposed to foreign exchange-related variability and earnings volatility on our foreign investments. foreign currency market risk is the possibility that our financial results or financial position could be better or worse than planned because of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. at december 31, 2014, we had net equity of approximately $1.5 billion, or 11% of total net equity, denominated in a currency other than the u.s. dollar, after consideration of our derivative and non-derivative financial instruments. based on our sensitivity analysis, a 10% reduction in exchange rates would cause a reduction of $150 million to our net equity. at december 31, 2014, we had foreign currency forward contracts, which were designated and qualify as net investment hedges, with an aggregate notional amount of $1.1 billion to hedge a portion of our investments in europe, including the united kingdom, and japan. based on our sensitivity analysis, a weakening of the u.s. dollar against each of the euro, british pound sterling and japanese yen by 10% would 40 table of contents result in a $105 million negative change in our cash flows upon settlement. in addition, we also have euro option contracts, which were not designated as hedges, with an aggregate notional amount of $0.4 billion to mitigate risk associated with the translation of projected net income of our subsidiaries in europe. a weakening of the u.s. dollar against the euro by 10% would result in a $35 million negative change in our cash flows upon settlement. interest rate risk we are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes on future earnings and cash flows. at december 31, 2014, we had $572.7 million of variable rate debt outstanding, all of which was on our term loans. at december 31, 2014, we had entered into interest rate swap agreements to fix $342.1 million of our japanese yen term loan. during the year ended december 31, 2014, we had weighted average daily outstanding borrowings of $181.6 million on our variable rate credit facilities not subject to interest rate swap agreements. based on the results of a sensitivity analysis assuming a 10% adverse change in interest rates based on our average outstanding balances during the period, the impact was $0.5 million, which equates to a change in interest rates of 13 basis points.risk factors in this report. we undertake no duty to update any forward-looking statements appearing i n this report except as may be required by law. part i item 1. business the company we are the global leader in logistics real estate, focused on high-barrier, high-growth markets across the americas, europe and asia. at december 31, 2015, we owned or had investments in, on a wholly owned basis or through co-investment ventures, properties and development projects expected to total approximately 669 million square feet (62 million square meters) in 20 countries. we lease modern distribution facilities to a diverse base of more than 5,200 customers across two major categories: business-to-business and retail/online fulfillment. for business-to-business enterprises, our buildings serve a variety of sectors, including automotive, transportation, pharmaceuticals and general consumer goods. in the area of retail/online fulfillment, our state-of-the-art logistics facilities foster the seamless flow of goods around the world. details of the 669 million square feet at december 31, 2015 was as follows (dollars and square feet in millions): americas (4 countries) europe (13 countries) asia (3 countries) total operating portfolio (number of buildings) 2,403 714 86 3,203 operating portfolio (square feet) 407 165 35 607 development portfolio (square feet) 21 9 17 47 other real estate properties (square feet) 10 4 1 15 total 438 178 53 669 operating portfolio (gross book value) $ 29,586 $ 12,243 $ 4,328 $ 46,157 development portfolio (tei) (1) 1,557 727 1,531 3,815 land portfolio (book value) 922 445 199 1,566 total $ 32,065 $ 13,415 $ 6,058 $ 51,538 (1) total expected investment ( tei ) represents total estimated cost of development or expansion, including land, development and leasing costs. tei is based on current projections and is subject to change. non-u.s. dollar investments are translated to u.s. dollars using the exchange rate at period end or the date of development start for purposes of calculating development starts in any period. our operating portfolio includes stabilized industrial properties in our owned and managed portfolio. a developed property moves into the operating portfolio when it meets stabilization. the property is considered stabilized when a development project has been completed for one year or is at least 90% occupied whichever occurs first. our other real estate properties include properties in which we have an ownership interest but do not manage, and other properties we own, such as value-added 3 properties and assets held for sal e to third parties. value-added properties are those which are expected to be repurposed or redeveloped to a higher and better use. they also include newly acquired properties that present opportunities to create greater value. prologis, inc. began operating as a fully integrated real estate company in 1997 and elected to be taxed as a reit under the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended ( internal revenue code ). we believe the current organization and method of operation will enable prologis, inc. to maintain its status as a reit. the operating partnership also was formed in 1997. our global corporate headquarters are at pier 1, bay 1, san francisco, california 94111, and our other principal offices are in amsterdam, denver, luxembourg, mexico city, sao paulo, shanghai, singapore and tokyo. our internet address is www.prologis.com . all reports required to be filed with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ) are available and can be accessed free of charge through the investor relations section of our website after we electronically submit material to the sec. the common stock of prologis, inc. is listed on the new york stock exchange ( nyse ) under the ticker pld and is a component of the standard &amp; poor's ( s&amp;p ) 500. investment strategy our investment strategy focuses on providing high-quality distribution facilities to customers whose businesses are tied to consumption and global trade and as such depend on the efficient movement of goods through the supply chain. we have a significant worldwide presence of $51.5 billion of real estate assets in our owned and managed portfolio which spans 20 countries on four continents. we focus our investments in large population centers with high per-capita consumption rates located near major airports, seaports and rail and highway systems. we classify our properties into two main market categories: global and regional. global markets comprise approximately 30 of the largest markets tied to global trade and consumption. regional markets benefit from large population centers but typically are not as tied to the global supply chain; instead, they serve local consumption and are less supply constrained. we intend to hold primarily class-a product in global and regional markets. at december 31, 2015, global and regional markets represented approximately 89% and 11%, respectively, of our owned and managed portfolio (based on our share, as determined by our ownership percentage for consolidated and unconsolidated entities, of the properties' gross book value). we have deep knowledge of our local markets, extensive construction expertise and a demonstrated commitment to sustainable design across our portfolio. we are supported by a diverse customer base and our relationships with multinational corporations bring us repeat business across our global portfolio. see below for information on our customers. for more detail on our properties, see item 2. properties. both macroeconomics and demographics are important drivers of our business; these drivers include population growth, consumption and rising affluence. in the developed markets of the united states (or u.s. ), europe and japan, the reconfiguration of supply chains, which is strongly influenced by e-commerce trends, as well as the operational efficiencies that can be realized from our modern logistics facilities, are key factors. in emerging markets, such as brazil, china and mexico, new affluence and the rise of the consumer classes together have prompted demand as supply chains are constructed. taken together, logistics real estate markets benefit from economic growth, as well as from the modernization of supply chains around the world. in addition to our wholly owned investments we also have investments in a variety of ventures. we co-invest with partners and investors in entities that own multiple properties. we refer to these entities as co-investment ventures (consolidated or unconsolidated). business strategy and operating segments our business comprises two operating segments: real estate operations and strategic capital. real estate operations rental operations. rental operations is the largest segment and contributed approximately 90% of our revenues, earnings and funds from operations in 2015 (see below for our definition of funds from operations and a complete reconciliation to net earnings in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations). we collect rent from our customers through operating leases, including reimbursements for the majority of our property operating costs. we expect to generate long-term internal growth by maintaining high occupancy rates, controlling expenses and increasing rents. our rental revenue is diversified by customer segment and geography. we believe our property management, leasing and maintenance teams, together with our capital expenditure, energy and risk management programs, create cost efficiencies that allow us to capitalize on the economies of scale inherent in owning, operating and growing a global portfolio. capital deployment . capital deployment includes the development, redevelopment and acquisition of industrial properties to increase rental income and therefore is reported with rental operations. we primarily deploy capital in global and regional markets to serve our customers' requirements. we capitalize on the following: (i) our land bank, (ii) the development expertise of our local teams, (iii) our customer relationships, and (iv) the demand for high-quality distribution facilities. we aim to increase our rental revenue and our net asset value by leasing newly developed space and acquiring operating properties. we develop properties for long-term hold, for contribution to our co-investment ventures and, occasionally, for sale to third parties. in 2015, we stabilized $1.6 billion of development projects with an estimated gross margin of 32%, creating $515 million in value for prologis. strategic capital real estate is a capital intensive business that requires growth capital. we manage third-party capital on behalf of the world's largest institutional partners in order to grow our business, provide incremental revenues, and align our assets and liabilities in local currencies thereby mitigating foreign currency risk associated with our international investments. we tailor logistics portfolios to meet our partners' specific needs, with a focus on long-term ventures and open-ended funds. we also access alternative sources of equity through the publicly traded vehicles nippon prologis reit, inc. ( npr ) and fibra prologis. we hold a significant ownership interest in these ventures, aligning our interests with those of our partners. we generate strategic capital revenues from our unconsolidated ventures through asset management and property management services and we earn additional revenues by providing leasing, acquisition, construction, development, financing and disposition services. at december 31, 2015, we managed 276.5 million square feet of operating properties in nine unconsolidated co-investment ventures. for more detail of our co-investment ventures, see item 2. properties. depending on the structure of the venture and the returns provided to our partners, we also earn revenues through incentive fees during the life of a venture or upon liquidation (called promotes ). in 2015, this segment contributed approximately 10% of our revenues, earnings and our funds from operations. we plan to grow this business generally through our existing ventures. competition competitively priced distribution space could impact our occupancy rates and have an adverse effect on how much rent we can charge, which in turn could affect both of our operating segments. we may face competition with regard to our capital deployment activities, including local, regional and national operators or developers. we also face competition from investment managers for institutional capital within our strategic capital business. 4 we believe we have competitive advantages due to our: ability to respond quickly to customers' needs for high-quality distribution space in key global and regional markets; established relationships with key customers served by our local teams; ability to leverage our organizational scale and structure to provide a single point of contact for global customers through the prologis global customer solutions team; property management and leasing expertise; relationships and proven track record with current and prospective investors in our strategic capital business; global experience developing and managing industrial properties; well-positioned land bank; and team members with experience in the land entitlement and development processes. customers our broad customer base represents a spectrum of international, national, regional and local distribution users. at december 31, 2015, in real estate operations, we had more than 4,600 customers occupying 338.3 million square feet of distribution space. on an owned and managed basis, we had more than 5,200 customers occupying 614.7 million square feet of distribution space. in strategic capital, we view our partners and investors as our customers. at december 31, 2015, in our private ventures, we partnered with approximately 100 investors, several of which invest in multiple ventures. the following table details our top 25 customers at december 31, 2015 (square feet in thousands): consolidated real estate operations owned and managed top customers % of ner (1) total occupied square feet top customers % of ner (1) total occupied square feet 1. amazon.com 4.5 11,626 1. amazon.com 2.8 13,001 2. home depot 1.8 5,431 2. dhl 1.6 10,401 3. fedex corporation 1.5 2,686 3. geodis 1.2 7,914 4. xpo logistics 1.0 4,099 4. xpo logistics 1.1 8,282 5. united states government 1.0 645 5. kuehne + nagel 1.1 6,195 6. wal-mart stores 0.8 2,886 6. ceva logistics 1.1 6,735 7. ingram micro 0.8 2,524 7. home depot 1.0 5,441 8. pepsico 0.7 2,618 8. fedex corporation 0.9 3,105 9. dhl 0.7 2,200 9. nippon express group 0.6 2,665 10. cal cartage company 0.6 1,325 10. wal-mart stores 0.6 4,915 top 10 customers 13.4 36,040 top 10 customers 12.0 68,654 11. best buy 0.6 1,562 11. united states government 0.6 1,243 12. kimberly-clark 0.5 2,091 12. tesco 0.6 3,172 13. sears 0.5 2,273 13. db schenker 0.6 3,786 14. anixter 0.5 1,629 14. ups 0.5 3,191 15. geodis 0.5 2,004 15. ingram micro 0.5 3,181 16. bayerische motoren werke ag (bmw) 0.5 1,503 16. hitachi 0.5 1,907 17. ups 0.5 1,606 17. panalpina 0.5 2,237 18. apl 0.5 2,047 18. lg 0.4 2,567 19. office depot 0.4 1,592 19. pepsico 0.4 2,618 20. kuehne + nagel 0.4 1,508 20. bayerische motoren werke ag (bmw) 0.4 1,991 21. mohawk industries 0.4 1,204 21. samsung electronics 0.3 2,103 22. georgia-pacific 0.4 1,292 22. la poste 0.3 1,673 23. kellogg's 0.4 1,750 23. best buy 0.3 1,827 24. c&amp;s wholesale grocers 0.4 1,285 24. uti 0.3 2,116 25. lg 0.4 1,333 25. rhenus ag &amp; co kg 0.3 2,122 top 25 customers 20.3 60,719 top 25 customers 18.5 104,388 (1) net effective rent (or ner ) is calculated using the estimated total cash to be received over the term of the lease (including base rent and expense reimbursements) divided by the lease term to determine the amount of rent and expense reimbursements received per year. amounts derived in a currency other than the u.s. dollar have been translated using the average rate from the previous twelve months. 5 employees the following table summarizes our global employee base at december 31, 2015: number of employees region real estate operations strategic capital corporate and support total americas 625 30 300 955 europe 220 20 130 370 asia 155 30 45 230 total 1,000 80 475 1,555 we believe we have good relationships with our employees. prologis employees are not organized under collective bargaining agreements, although some employees in europe are represented by statutory works councils and as such they benefit from applicable labor agreements. code of ethics and business conduct we maintain a code of ethics and business conduct applicable to our board of directors (the board ) and all of our officers and employees, including the principal executive officer, the principal financial officer and the principal accounting officer, or other people performing similar functions. a copy of our code of ethics and business conduct is available on our website, www.prologis.com . in addition to being accessible through our website, copies of our code of ethics and business conduct can be obtained, free of charge, upon written request to investor relations, pier 1, bay 1, san francisco, california 94111. any amendments to or waivers of our code of ethics and business conduct that apply to the principal executive officer, the principal financial officer, or the principal accounting officer, or other people performing similar functions, and that relate to any matter enumerated in item 406(b) of regulation s-k, will be disclosed on our website. environmental matters we are exposed to various environmental risks that may result in unanticipated losses and affect our operating results and financial condition. either the previous owners or we have conducted environmental reviews on a majority of the properties we have acquired, including land. while some of these assessments have led to further investigation and sampling, none of the environmental assessments has revealed an environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see item 1a. risk factors and note 17 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8. insura nce coverage we carry insurance coverage on our properties. we determine the type of coverage and the policy specifications and limits based on what we deem to be the risks associated with our ownership of properties and our business operations in specific markets. such coverage typically includes property damage and rental loss insurance resulting from such perils as fire, windstorm, flood, earthquake and terrorism; commercial general liability insurance; and environmental insurance. insurance is maintained through a combination of commercial insurance, self-insurance and a wholly-owned captive insurance entity. the costs to insure our properties are primarily covered through reimbursements from our customers. we believe that our insurance coverage contains policy specifications and insured limits that are customary for similar properties, business activities and markets and we believe our properties are adequately insured. see further discussion in item 1a. risk factors. item 1a. risk factors our operations and structure involve various risks that could adversely affect our business and financial condition, including but not limited to, our financial position, results of operations, cash flow, ability to make distributions and payments to security holders and the market value of our securities. these risks relate to our consolidated company as well as our investments in unconsolidated entities and include among others, (i) general risks; (ii) risks related to our business; (iii) risks related to financing and capital and (iv) income tax risks. general risks as a global company, we are subject to social, political and economic risks of doing business in many countries. we conduct a significant portion of our business and employ a substantial number of people outside of the u.s. during 2015, we generated approximately $335.3 million or 15.3% of our revenue from operations outside the u.s. circumstances and developments related to international operations that could negatively affect us include, but are not limited to, the following factors: difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations in certain regions, including differing employment practices and labor issues; local businesses and cultural factors that differ from our usual standards and practices; volatility in currencies and currency restrictions, which may prevent the transfer of capital and profits to the u.s.; challenges in establishing effective controls and procedures to regulate operations in different regions and to monitor compliance with applicable regulations, such as the foreign corrupt practices act, the united kingdom bribery act and other similar laws; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tax and other laws; potentially adverse tax consequences; the responsibility of complying with multiple and potentially conflicting laws, e.g., with respect to corrupt practices, employment and licensing; the impact of regional or country-specific business cycles and economic instability; political instability, uncertainty over property rights, civil unrest, drug trafficking, political activism or the continuation or escalation of terrorist or gang activities; 6 foreign ownership restrictions in operations with the respective countries; and access to capital may be more restricted, or unavailable on favorable terms or at all in certain locations. in addition, we may be impacted by the ability of our non-u.s. subsidiaries to dividend or otherwise transfer cash among our subsidiaries, including transfers of cash to pay interest and principal on our debt, due to currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations and potentially adverse tax consequences, among other factors. disruptions in the global capital and credit markets may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. to the extent there is turmoil in the global financial markets, this turmoil has the potential to adversely affect (i) the value of our properties; (ii) the availability or the terms of financing that we have or may anticipate utilizing; (iii) our ability to make principal and interest payments on, or refinance any outstanding debt when due; and (iv) the ability of our customers to enter into new leasing transactions or satisfy rental payments under existing leases. disruptions in the capital and credit markets may also adversely affect our ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities. our business and operations could suffer in the event of system failures or cyber security attacks. despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from any number of sources, including energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war, telecommunication failures and cyber security attacks, such as computer viruses or unauthorized access. any system failure or accident that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to our business. we may also incur additional costs to remedy damages caused by such disruptions. any compromise of our security could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, unauthorized access to information of ours and others, significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, loss or misuse of the information and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could harm our business. risks associated with our dependence on key personnel. we depend on the deep industry knowledge and the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. from time to time, our personnel and their roles may change. while we believe that we are able to retain our key talent and find suitable employees to meet our personnel needs, the loss of key personnel, any change in their roles or the limitation of their availability could adversely affect our business. if we are unable to continue to attract and retain our executive officers, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain key employees become more expensive, our performance and competitive position could be materially adversely affected. our business could be adversely impacted if we have deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting. the design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors, misstatements or misrepresentations. while management continually reviews the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, there can be no guarantee that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. deficiencies, including any material weakness, in our internal control over financial reporting that may occur in the future could result in misstatements or restatements of our financial statements or a decline in the price of our securities. the depreciation in the value of the foreign currency in countries where we have a significant investment may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. we pursue growth opportunities in international markets where the u.s. dollar is not the functional currency. at december 31, 2015, approximately $6.3 billion or 20.1% of our total assets are invested in a currency other than the u.s. dollar, primarily the british pound sterling, euro and japanese yen. as a result, we are subject to foreign currency risk due to potential fluctuations in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the u.s. dollar. a significant change in the value of the foreign currency of one or more countries where we have a significant investment may have a material adverse effect on our business and, in particular, our u.s. dollar reported financial position and results of operations and debt covenant ratios. although we attempt to mitigate adverse effects by borrowing under debt agreements denominated in foreign currencies and using derivative contracts, there can be no assurance that those attempts to mitigate foreign currency risk will be successful. our hedging of foreign currency and interest rate risk may not effectively limit our exposure to other risks. hedging arrangements involve risks, such as the risk of fluctuation in the relative value of the foreign currency or interest rates and the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements. the funds required to settle such arrangements could be significant depending on the stability and movement of the hedged foreign currency or the size of the underlying financing and the applicable interest rates at the time of the breakage. the failure to hedge effectively against exchange rate changes or interest rate changes may adversely affect our business. compliance or failure to comply with regulatory requirements could result in substantial costs. we are required to comply with many regulations in different countries, including (but not limited to) the foreign corrupt practices act, the united kingdom bribery act and similar laws and regulations. our properties are also subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as the americans with disabilities act and state and local fire and life-safety requirements. noncompliance could result in the imposition of governmental fines or the award of damages to private litigants. while we believe that we are currently in material compliance with these regulatory requirements, the requirements may change or new requirements may be imposed that could require significant unanticipated expenditures by us. if we are required to make unanticipated expenditures to comply with these regulations we may be adversely affected. risks related to our business real estate investments are not as liquid as certain other types of assets, which may reduce economic returns to investors. real estate investments are not as liquid as certain other types of investments and this lack of liquidity may limit our ability to react promptly to changes in economic or other conditions. significant expenditures associated with real estate investments, such as secured mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs, are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from the investments. as a reit, under the internal revenue code, we are only able to hold property for sale in the ordinary course of business through taxable reit subsidiaries in order to not incur punitive taxation on any tax gain from the sale of such property. we may dispose of certain properties that have been held for investment to generate liquidity. if we do not satisfy certain safe harbors or we believe there is too much risk of incurring the punitive tax on any tax gain from the sale, we may not pursue such sales. 7 we may decide to sell properties to certain of our unconsolidated co-investment ventures or third parties to generate proceeds to fund our capital deployment activities. our ability to sell properties on advantageous terms is affected by: (i) competition from other owners of properties that are trying to dispose of their properties; (ii) market conditions, including the capitalization rates applicable to our properties; and (i ii) other factors beyond our control. if our competitors sell assets similar to assets we intend to divest in the same markets or at valuations below our valuations for comparable assets, we may be unable to divest our assets at favorable pricing or at all . the unconsolidated co-investment venture or third party who might acquire our properties may need to have access to debt and equity capital, in the private and public markets, in order to acquire properties from us. should they have limited or no access to capital on favorable terms, then dispositions could be delayed. if we do not have sufficient cash available to us through our operations, sales or contributions of properties or available credit facilities to continue operating our business as usual, we may need to find alternative ways to increase our liquidity. such alternatives may include, without limitation, divesting ourselves of properties, whether or not they otherwise meet our strategic objectives to keep in the long term, at less than optimal terms, incurring debt, entering into leases with new customers at lower rental rates or less than optimal terms or entering into lease renewals with our existing customers without an increase in rental rates. there can be no assurance, however, that such alternative ways to increase our liquidity will be available to us. additionally, taking such measures to increase our liquidity may adversely affect our business, and in particular, our distributable cash flow and debt covenants. our investments are concentrated in the industrial distribution sector and our business would be adversely affected by an economic downturn in that sector. our investments in real estate assets are primarily concentrated in the industrial distribution sector. this concentration may expose us to the risk of economic downturns in this sector to a greater extent than if our business activities were more diversified. general economic conditions and other events or occurrences that affect areas in which our properties are geographically concentrated, may impact financial results. we are exposed to general economic conditions, local, regional, national and international economic conditions and other events and occurrences that affect the markets in which we own properties. our operating performance is further impacted by the economic conditions of the specific markets in which we have concentrations of properties. at december 31, 2015, approximately 31.9% of our consolidated operating properties or $7.7 billion (based on gross book value, or investment before depreciation) are located in california, which represented 25.1% of the aggregate square footage of our operating properties and 31.0% of our net operating income. our revenue from, and the value of, our properties located in california may be affected by local real estate conditions (such as an oversupply of or reduced demand for industrial properties) and the local economic climate. business layoffs, downsizing, industry slowdowns, changing demographics and other factors may adversely impact california's economic climate. because of the number of properties we have located in california, a downturn in california's economy or real estate conditions could adversely affect our business. in addition to california, we also have significant holdings (defined as more than 3.0% of total investment before depreciation) in operating properties in certain global and regional markets located in atlanta, central and eastern pennsylvania, chicago, dallas/fort worth, new jersey/new york city, and south florida. our operating performance could be adversely affected if conditions become less favorable in any of the markets in which we have a concentration of properties. conditions such as an oversupply of distribution space or a reduction in demand for distribution space, among other factors, may impact operating conditions. any material oversupply of distribution space or material reduction in demand for distribution space could adversely affect our overall business. in addition, our owned and managed portfolio, including the unconsolidated co-investment ventures in which we invest, has concentrations of properties in the same markets mentioned above, as well as in markets in france, germany, japan, mexico and the united kingdom, and are subject to the economic conditions in those markets. a number of our investments, both wholly-owned and owned through co-investment ventures, are located in areas that are known to be subject to earthquake activity. u.s. properties located in active seismic areas include properties in the san francisco bay area, los angeles, and seattle. international properties located in active seismic areas include japan and mexico. we generally carry earthquake insurance on our properties located in areas historically subject to seismic activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles, if we believe it is commercially reasonable. we evaluate our earthquake insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants and in some specific instances have elected to self-insure our earthquake exposure based on this analysis. we have elected not to carry earthquake insurance for our assets in japan based on this analysis. furthermore, a number of our properties are located in areas that are known to be subject to hurricane or flood risk. we carry hurricane and flood hazard insurance on all of our properties located in areas historically subject to such activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles, if we believe it is commercially reasonable. we evaluate our insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants. investments in real estate properties are subject to risks that could adversely affect our business. investments in real estate properties are subject to varying degrees of risk. while we seek to minimize these risks through geographic diversification of our portfolio, market research and our asset management capabilities, these risks cannot be eliminated. factors that may affect real estate values include: local conditions, such as a reduction in demand for distribution space in an area due to oversupply and obsolescence, such as changes in technology, may impact the supply chain for ourselves and our customers; the attractiveness of our properties to potential customers and competition from other available properties; increasing costs of maintaining, insuring, renovating and making improvements to our properties; our ability to rehabilitate and reposition our properties due to changes in the business needs of our customers; our ability to control rents and variable operating costs; and governmental regulations and the associated potential liability under, and changes in, environmental, zoning, usage, tax and other laws. we may be unable to lease vacant space or renew leases or re-lease space on favorable terms as leases expire. our operating results and distributable cash flow would be adversely affected if a significant number of our customers were unable to meet their lease obligations. we are also subject to the risk that, upon the expiration of leases for space located in our properties, leases may not be renewed by existing customers, the space may not be 8 re-leased to new c ustomers or the terms of renewal or re-leasing (including the cost of required renovations or concessions to customers) may be less favorable to us than current lease terms. our competitors may offer space at rental rates below current market rates or belo w the rental rates we currently charge our customers, we may lose potential customers, and we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we currently charge to retain customers when our customers' leases expire. in the event of default by a si gnificant number of customers, we may experience delays and incur substantial costs in enforcing our rights as landlord, and we may be unable to re-lease spaces. a customer may experience a downturn in its business, which may cause the loss of the customer or may weaken its financial condition, resulting in the customer's failure to make rental payments when due or requiring a restructuring that might reduce cash flow from the lease. in addition, a customer may seek the protection of bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws, which could result in the rejection and termination of such customer's lease and thereby cause a reduction in our available cash flow. we may acquire properties, which involves risks that could adversely affect our business and financial condition. we have acquired properties and will continue to acquire properties, both through the direct acquisition of real estate and through the acquisition of entities that own the real estate and through additional investments in co-investment ventures that acquire properties. the acquisition of properties involves risks, including the risk that the acquired property will not perform as anticipated and that any actual costs for rehabilitation, repositioning, renovation and improvements identified in the pre-acquisition due diligence process will exceed estimates. when we acquire properties, we may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local economy, forging new business relationships in the area and unfamiliarity with local government and permitting procedures. additionally, there is, and it is expected there will continue to be, significant competition for properties that meet our investment criteria as well as risks associated with obtaining financing for acquisition activities. the acquired properties or entities may be subject to liabilities, which may be without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities. as a result, if a liability were asserted against us based on ownership of any of these entities or properties, then we may have to pay substantial sums to settle it. our real estate development strategies may not be successful. our real estate development strategy is focused on monetizing land in the future through sales to third parties, development of industrial properties to hold for long-term investment or contribution or sale to a co-investment venture or third party, depending on market conditions, our liquidity needs and other factors. we may increase our investment in the development, renovation and redevelopment business and we expect to complete the build-out and leasing of our current development portfolio. we may also develop, renovate and redevelop properties within existing or newly formed co-investment ventures. the real estate development, renovation and redevelopment business includes the following significant risks: we may not be able to obtain financing for development projects on favorable terms or at all; we may explore development opportunities that may be abandoned and the related investment impaired; we may not be able to obtain, or may experience delays in obtaining, all necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other governmental permits and authorizations; we may have construction costs, total investment amounts and our share of remaining funding that exceed our estimates and projects may not be completed, delivered or stabilized as planned due to defects or other issues; we may not be able to attract third-party investment in new development co-investment ventures or sufficient customer demand for our product; we may have properties that perform below anticipated levels, producing cash flow below budgeted amounts; we may seek to sell certain land parcels and not be able to find a third party to acquire such land or the sales price will not allow us to recover our investment, resulting in impairment charges; we may not be able to lease properties we develop on favorable terms or at all; we may not be able to capture the anticipated enhanced value created by our value-added properties on expected timetables or at all; we may experience delays (temporary or permanent) if there is public or government opposition to our activities; and we may have substantial renovation, new development and redevelopment activities, regardless of their ultimate success, that require a significant amount of management's time and attention, diverting their attention from our day-to-day operations. we are subject to risks and liabilities in connection with forming co-investment ventures, investing in new or existing co-investment ventures, attracting third-party investment and investing in and managing properties through co-investment ventures. at december 31, 2015, we had investments in real estate containing approximately 393 million square feet held through co-investment ventures, both public and private. our organizational documents do not limit the amount of available funds that we may invest in these ventures, and we may and currently intend to develop and acquire properties through co-investment ventures and investments in other entities when warranted by the circumstances. however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to form new co-investment ventures, or attract third-party investment or that additional investments in new or existing ventures to develop or acquire properties will be successful. further, there can be no assurance that we are able to realize value from such investments. our co-investment ventures involve certain additional risks that we do not otherwise face, including: our partners may share certain approval rights over major decisions made on behalf of the ventures; if our partners fail to fund their share of any required capital contributions, then we may choose to contribute such capital; our partners might have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals that would affect our ability to operate the property; the venture or other governing agreements often restrict the transfer of an interest in the co-investment venture or may otherwise restrict our ability to sell the interest when we desire or on advantageous terms; 9 our relationships with our partners are g enerally contractual in nature and may be terminated or dissolved under the terms of the agreements, and in such event, we may not continue to manage or invest in the assets underlying such relationships resulting in reduced fee revenue or causing a need t o purchase such interest to continue ownership; and disputes between us and our partners may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and directors from focusing their time and effort on our business and result in subjecting the properties owned by the applicable co-investment venture to additional risk. we generally seek to maintain sufficient influence over our co-investment ventures to permit us to achieve our business objectives; however, we may not be able to continue to do so indefinitely. we have formed publicly traded investment vehicles, such as npr and fibra prologis, for which we serve as sponsor or manager. we have contributed, and may continue to contribute, assets into such vehicles. there is a risk that our managerial relationship may be terminated. we are exposed to various environmental risks, including the potential impacts of future climate change, which may result in unanticipated losses that could affect our business and financial condition. under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner, developer or operator of real estate may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances. the costs of removal or remediation of such substances could be substantial. such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release or presence of such hazardous substances. in addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages based on personal injury, property damage or other costs, including investigation and clean-up costs, resulting from the environmental contamination. environmental laws in some countries, including the u.s., also require that owners or operators of buildings containing asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos, adequately inform or train those who may come into contact with asbestos and undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, in the event that asbestos is disturbed during building renovation or demolition. these laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos. some of our properties are known to contain asbestos-containing building materials. in addition, some of our properties are leased or have been leased, in part, to owners and operators of businesses that use, store or otherwise handle petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, creating a potential for the release of such hazardous or toxic substances. furthermore, certain of our properties are on, adjacent to or near other properties that have contained or currently contain petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, or upon which others have engaged, are engaged or may engage in activities that may release such hazardous or toxic substances. from time to time, we may acquire properties, or interests in properties, with known adverse environmental conditions for which we believe that the environmental liabilities associated with these conditions are quantifiable and that the acquisition will yield a superior risk-adjusted return. in connection with certain divested properties, we have agreed to remain responsible for, and to bear the cost of, remediating or monitoring certain environmental conditions on the properties. we are also exposed to potential physical risks from possible future changes in climate. our distribution facilities may be exposed to rare catastrophic weather events, such as severe storms or floods. if the frequency of extreme weather events increases due to climate change, our exposure to these events could increase. we do not currently consider ourselves to be exposed to regulatory risks related to climate change, as our operations generally do not emit a significant amount of greenhouse gases. however, we may be adversely impacted as a real estate developer in the future by potential impacts to the supply chain or stricter energy efficiency standards for buildings. we cannot give any assurance that other such conditions do not exist or may not arise in the future. the presence of such substances on our real estate properties could adversely affect our ability to lease, develop or sell such properties or to borrow using such properties as collateral, and this may have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition, and in particular, our distributable cash flow. our insurance coverage does not include all potential losses. we and our unconsolidated co-investment ventures carry insurance coverage including property damage and rental loss insurance resulting from certain perils such as fire and additional perils as covered under an extended coverage policy, namely windstorm, flood, earthquake and terrorism; commercial general liability insurance; and environmental insurance, as appropriate for the markets where each of our properties and business operations are located. the insurance coverage contains policy specifications and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties, business activities and markets. we believe our properties and the properties of our unconsolidated co-investment ventures are adequately insured. certain losses, however, including losses from floods, earthquakes, acts of war, acts of terrorism or riots, generally are not insured against or generally are not fully insured against because it is not deemed economically feasible or prudent to do so. if an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs with respect to one or more of our properties, we could experience a significant loss of capital invested and future revenues in these properties and could potentially remain obligated under any recourse debt associated with the property. furthermore, we cannot be sure that the insurance companies will be able to continue to offer products with sufficient coverage at commercially reasonable rates. if we experience a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds insured limits with respect to one or more of our properties or if the insurance companies fail to meet their coverage commitments to us in the event of an insured loss, then we could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties, as well as the anticipated future revenue from those properties and, if there is recourse debt, then we would remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the properties. any such losses or higher insurance costs could adversely affect our business. risks related to financing and capital we may be unable to refinance our debt or our cash flow may be insufficient to make required debt payments. we are subject to risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest. there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any maturing indebtedness, that such refinancing would be on terms as favorable as the terms of the maturing indebtedness, or that we will be able to otherwise obtain funds by selling assets or raising equity to make required payments on maturing indebtedness. if we are unable to refinance our indebtedness at maturity or meet our payment obligations, our business and financial condition will be negatively impacted and, if the maturing debt is secured, the lender may foreclose on the property securing such indebtedness. our credit facilities and certain other debt bears interest at variable rates. increases in interest rates would increase our interest expense under these agreements. covenants in our credit agreements could limit our flexibility and breaches of these covenants could adversely affect our financial condition. the terms of our various credit agreements, including our credit facilities, the indentures under which our senior notes are issued and other note agreements, require us to comply with a number of customary financial covenants, such as maintaining debt service coverage, leverage ratios, fixed charge ratios and other operating covenants including maintaining insurance coverage. these covenants may limit our flexibility to run our business, and breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable indebtedness. if we default under the covenant provisions and are unable to cure the default, refinance the indebtedness or meet payment obligations, our business and financial condition generally and, in particular, the amount of our distributable cash flow could be adversely affected. 10 adverse changes in our credit ratings could negatively affect our financing activity. the credit ratings of our senior unsecured notes and preferred stock are based on our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position and other factors employed by the credit rating agencies in their rating analyses of us. our credit ratings can affect the amount of capital we can access, as well as the terms and pricing of any debt we may incur. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings, and in the event our credit ratings are downgraded, we would likely incur higher borrowing costs and may encounter difficulty in obtaining additional financing. also, a downgrade in our credit ratings may trigger additional payments or other negative consequences under our credit facilities and other debt instruments. adverse changes in our credit ratings could negatively impact our business and, in particular, our refinancing and other capital market activities, our ability to manage debt maturities, our future growth and our development and acquisition activity. at december 31, 2015, our credit ratings were baa1 from moody's and bbb+ from s&amp;p, both with outlook stable. a securities rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating organization. we depend on external sources of capital. to qualify as a reit, we are required each year to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our reit taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends-paid deduction and by excluding any net capital gain) and we may be subject to tax to the extent our taxable income is not fully distributed. historically, we have satisfied these distribution requirements by making cash distributions to our stockholders, but we may choose to satisfy these requirements by making distributions of cash or other property, including, in limited circumstances, our own stock. for distributions with respect to taxable years that ended on or before december 31, 2015, and in some cases declared as late as december 31, 2016, a reit can satisfy up to 90% of the distribution requirements discussed above through the distribution of shares of our stock if certain conditions are met. assuming we continue to satisfy these distribution requirements with cash, we may not be able to fund all future capital needs, including acquisition and development activities, from cash retained from operations and may have to rely on third-party sources of capital. furthermore, to maintain our reit status and not have to pay federal income and excise taxes, we may need to borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the reit distribution requirements even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings. these short-term borrowing needs could result from differences in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for federal income tax purposes, or the effect of nondeductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt or amortization payments. our ability to access debt and equity capital on favorable terms or at all depends on a number of factors, including general market conditions, the market's perception of our growth potential, our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions and the market price of our securities. our stockholders may experience dilution if we issue additional common stock or units in the operating partnership. any additional future issuance of common stock or operating partnership units will reduce the percentage of our common stock and units owned by investors. in most circumstances, stockholders and unitholders will not be entitled to vote on whether or not we issue additional common stock or units. in addition, depending on the terms and pricing of any additional offering of our common stock or units and the value of the properties, our stockholders and unitholders may experience dilution in both book value and fair value of their common stock or units. income tax risks the failure of prologis, inc. to qualify as a reit would have serious adverse consequences. prologis, inc. elected to be taxed as a reit under sections 856 through 860 of the internal revenue code commencing with the taxable year ended december 31, 1997. we believe we have operated prologis, inc. to qualify as a reit under the internal revenue code and believe that the current organization and method of operation comply with the rules and regulations promulgated under the internal revenue code to enable prologis, inc. to continue to qualify as a reit. however, it is possible that we are organized or have operated in a manner that would not allow prologis, inc. to qualify as a reit, or that our future operations could cause prologis, inc. to fail to qualify. qualification as a reit requires us to satisfy numerous requirements (some annually and others on a quarterly basis) established under highly technical and complex sections of the internal revenue code for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations, and involves the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. for example, to qualify as a reit, prologis, inc. must derive at least 95% of its gross income in any year from qualifying sources. in addition, prologis, inc. must pay dividends to its stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of its taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding capital gains) and must satisfy specified asset tests on a quarterly basis. the provisions of the internal revenue code and applicable treasury regulations regarding qualification as a reit are more complicated for prologis, inc. because we hold assets through the operating partnership. if prologis, inc. fails to qualify as a reit in any taxable year, we will be required to pay federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on taxable income at regular corporate rates. unless we are entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, prologis, inc. would be disqualified from treatment as a reit for the four taxable years following the year in which it lost the qualification. if prologis, inc. lost its reit status, our net earnings would be significantly reduced for each of the years involved. furthermore, we own a direct or indirect interest in certain subsidiary reits that elected to be taxed as reits under sections 856 through 860 of the internal revenue code. provided that each subsidiary reit qualifies as a reit, our interest in such subsidiary reit will be treated as a qualifying real estate asset for purposes of the reit asset tests, and any dividend income or gains derived by us from such subsidiary reit will generally be treated as income that qualifies for purposes of the reit gross income tests. to qualify as a reit, the subsidiary reit must independently satisfy all of the reit qualification requirements. if such subsidiary reit were to fail to qualify as a reit, and certain relief provisions did not apply, it would be treated as a regular taxable corporation and its income would be subject to u.s. federal income tax. in addition, a failure of the subsidiary reit to qualify as a reit would have an adverse effect on the ability of prologis, inc. to comply with the reit income and asset tests, and thus its ability to qualify as a reit. certain property transfers may generate prohibited transaction income, resulting in a penalty tax on gain attributable to the transaction. from time to time, we may transfer or otherwise dispose of some of our properties, including by contributing properties to our co-investment ventures. under the internal revenue code, any gain resulting from transfers of properties we hold as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is treated as income from a prohibited transaction subject to a 100% penalty tax. we do not believe that our transfers or disposals of property or our contributions of properties into our co-investment ventures are prohibited transactions. however, whether property is held for investment purposes is a question of fact that depends on all the facts and circumstances surrounding the particular transaction. the internal revenue service may contend that certain transfers or dispositions of properties by us or contributions of properties into our co-investment ventures are prohibited transactions. while we believe that the internal revenue service would not prevail in any such dispute, if the internal revenue code were to argue successfully that a transfer, disposition or contribution of property constituted a prohibited transaction, we would be required to pay a 100% penalty tax on any gain allocable to us from the prohibited transaction. in addition, income from a prohibited transaction might adversely affect our ability to satisfy the income tests for qualification as a reit. 11 legislative or regulatory action could adversely affect us. in recent years, numerous legislative, judicial and administrative changes have been made to the u.s. and foreign income tax laws applicable to investments in real estate, reits, similar entities and investments. additional changes are likely to continue to occur in the future, both in and outside of the u.s. and may impact our taxation or that of our stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to the impact of foreign-exchange related variability and earnings volatility on our foreign investments and interest rate changes. see our risk factors in item 1a. risk factors, specifically the following: the depreciation in the value of the foreign currency in countries where we have a significant investment may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position and we may be unable to refinance our debt or our cash flow may be insufficient to make required debt payments. see also notes 2 and 16 in the consolidated financial statements in item 8 for more information about our foreign operations and derivative financial instruments. we monitor our market risk exposures using a sensitivity analysis. our sensitivity analysis estimates the exposure to market risk sensitive instruments assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse change in exchange or interest rates at december 31, 2015. the results of the sensitivity analysis are summarized in the following sections. the sensitivity analysis is of limited predictive value. as a result, revenues and expenses, as well as our ultimate realized gains or losses with respect to interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations will depend on the exposures that arise during a future period, hedging strategies at the time and the prevailing interest and foreign currency exchange rates. foreign currency risk we are exposed to foreign exchange-related variability and earnings volatility on our foreign investments. foreign currency market risk is the possibility that our financial results or financial position could be better or worse than planned because of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. at december 31, 2015, we had net equity of approximately $1.6 billion, or 8.5% of total net equity, denominated in a currency other than the u.s. dollar, after consideration of our derivative and nonderivative financial instruments. based on our sensitivity analysis, a 10% reduction in exchange rates would cause a reduction of $162.1 million to our net equity. at december 31, 2015, we had foreign currency forward contracts, which were designated and qualify as net investment hedges, with an aggregate notional amount of $386.1 million to hedge a portion of our investments in the united kingdom. we also have foreign currency forward contracts, which were designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, with an aggregate notional amount of $4.8 million to hedge cash payments for development in mexico. on the basis of our sensitivity analysis, a weakening of the u.s. dollar against the british pound sterling or mexican peso by 10% would result in a $39.1 million negative change in our cash flows on settlement. in addition, we also have british pound sterling, canadian dollar, euro and japanese yen forward and option contracts, which were not designated as hedges, and have an aggregate notional amount of $611.7 million to mitigate risk associated with the translation of the projected financial results of our subsidiaries in europe, canada and japan. a weakening of the u.s. dollar against these currencies by 10% would result in a $61.2 million negative change in our net income on settlement. 34 interest rate r isk we are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes on future earnings and cash flows. at december 31, 2015, we had $2.4 billion of variable rate debt outstanding, of which $2.1 billion was outstanding on our term loans and $298.7 million was outstanding on secured mortgage debt. we had no outstanding balances on our credit facilities. at december 31, 2015, we had entered into interest rate swap agreements to fix $1.1 billion of our japanese yen term loans ( 105.9 billion) and our canadian term loan (cad $371.9 million). during the year ended december 31, 2015, we had weighted average daily outstanding borrowings of $257.3 million on our variable rate credit facilities. on the basis of our sensitivity analysis, a 10% adverse change in interest rates based on our average outstanding variable rate debt balances not subject to interest rate swap agreements during the period would result in additional interest expense of $2.9 million, which equates to a change in interest rates of 20 basis points.risk factors in this report. we undertake no duty t o update any forward-looking statements appearing in this report except as may be required by law. part i item 1. business prologis, inc. is a self-administered reit and is the sole general partner of prologis, l.p. we operate prologis, inc. and prologis, l.p. as one enterprise and, therefore, our discussion and analysis refers to prologis, inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, including prologis, l.p., collectively. prologis, inc. began operating as a fully integrated real estate company in 1997 and elected to be taxed as a reit under the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended ( internal revenue code ). we believe the current organization and method of operation will enable prologis, inc. to maintain its status as a reit. prologis, l.p. also was formed in 1997. our corporate headquarters are at pier 1, bay 1, san francisco, california 94111, and our other principal offices are located in amsterdam, denver, luxembourg, mexico city, shanghai, singapore and tokyo. our internet address is www.prologis.com . all reports required to be filed with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ) are available and can be accessed free of charge through the investor relations section of our website, www.prologis.com . the common stock of prologis, inc. is listed on the new york stock exchange ( nyse ) under the ticker pld and is a component of the standard &amp; poor's ( s&amp;p ) 500. the company we are the global leader in logistics real estate with a focus on high-barrier, high-growth markets. we own, manage and develop high-quality logistics facilities in the world's most active centers of commerce. an investment in prologis taps into key drivers of economic growth, including consumption, supply chain modernization, e-commerce and urbanization. customers turn to us because they know an efficient supply chain will make their businesses run better, and that a strategic relationship with prologis will create a competitive advantage. we lease modern logistics facilities to a diverse base of approximately 5,200 customers. these facilities assist the efficient distribution of goods for the world's best businesses and brands. we invest in class-a logistics facilities in the world's primary population centers with high barriers to entry and supported by extensive transportation infrastructure (major airports, seaports, rail systems and highway systems). we believe our portfolio is the highest-quality logistics property portfolio in the industry because it is focused in those key markets. our local teams actively manage the portfolio, which encompasses leasing and property management, new capital deployment activities and an opportunistic disposition program. the majority of our consolidated properties are in the united states (or u.s. ); while outside the u.s., our properties are generally held in co-investment ventures, which reduces our exposure to movements in foreign currency. therefore, we are principally an owner-operator in the u.s. and a manager-developer outside the u.s. macroeconomics and demographics are important drivers of our business; these drivers include population growth, consumption and rising affluence. in the developed markets of u.s., europe and japan, key factors are the reconfiguration of supply chains (strongly influenced by e-commerce trends), and the operational efficiencies that can be realized from our modern logistics facilities. in emerging markets, such as brazil, china and mexico, new affluence and the rise of the consumer classes have prompted demand as supply chains are constructed. taken together, logistics real estate markets benefit from economic growth, as well as from the modernization of supply chains around the world. 3 we manage our business on an owned and managed basis, including properties wholly owned by us or owned by one of our co-investment ventures, which allows us to make decisions based on the property operations versus our ownership. we believe the operating fundamentals of our owned and managed portfolio are consistent with those of our consolidated port folio, and therefore we generally look at operating metrics on an owned and managed basis. at december 31, 2016, we owned or had investments in, on a wholly owned basis or through co-investment ventures, properties and development projects expected to total $52.1 billion in gross total investment across 676 million square feet (63 million square meters) in 20 countries spanning four continents. our investment was $30.8 billion, which consisted of our wholly-owned properties and our pro rata (or ownership) share of the properties owned by our co-investment ventures. throughout this document, we reflect amounts in u.s. dollars, our reporting currency. included in these amounts are consolidated and unconsolidated investments denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the british pound sterling, euro and japanese yen that are impacted by fluctuations in exchange rates when translated into u.s. dollars. we mitigate our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations by investing outside the u.s. through co-investment ventures, borrowing in local currency and utilizing derivative instruments. details of the 676 million square feet at december 31, 2016, in our owned and managed portfolio were as follows (dollars and square feet in millions): u.s. other americas europe asia total operating portfolio (number of buildings) 2,058 240 736 102 3,136 operating portfolio (square feet) 358 51 172 41 622 development portfolio (square feet) 12 4 9 19 44 other real estate properties (square feet) 7 - 2 1 10 total square feet 377 55 183 61 676 operating portfolio (gross book value) $ 27,148 $ 3,100 $ 12,010 $ 5,021 $ 47,279 development portfolio (tei) (1) 924 304 669 1,488 3,385 land portfolio (gross book value) 474 356 431 164 1,425 total $ 28,546 $ 3,760 $ 13,110 $ 6,673 $ 52,089 4 (1) total expected investment ( tei ) represents total estimated cost of development or expansion, including land, development and leasing costs without any depreciation. tei is based on current projections and is subject to change. non-u.s. dollar investments were translated to u.s. dollars using the exchange rate at period end. our operating portfolio includes stabilized logistics facilities in our owned and managed portfolio. a developed property moves into the operating portfolio when it meets stabilization. the property is considered stabilized when a development project has been completed for one year or is at least 90% occupied, whichever occurs first. business strategy and operating segments our business comprises two operating segments: real estate operations and strategic capital. real estate rental operations generate revenues and net operating income ( noi ) by maintaining high occupancy rates and increasing rents real estate development generate value from development strategic capital access third-party capital to grow our business and earn recurring fees and promotes we have a high-quality logistics portfolio that serves premier companies across the globe. for the year ended december 31, 2016, we: generated over 90% of our consolidated revenues and noi from our buildings in the u.s. increased consolidated revenues and noi over 12% from 2015 ended the year with consolidated occupancy of 97.0% development contributes to significant earnings growth as projects lease up and generate revenues and noi. for the year ended december 31, 2016, we: stabilized a total estimated investment in our owned and managed portfolio of $2.5 billion of development projects with an estimated weighted average margin of 25.5% created $640 million of value (of which $571 million is our share) durable fee stream with more than 90% from perpetual or long-life co-investment ventures with some of the world's largest institutional partners. for the year ended december 31, 2016, we: generated approximately 90% of our consolidated strategic capital revenues from outside the u.s. increased consolidated strategic capital revenues over 40% from 2015 real estate operations rental operations. rental operations comprise the largest component of our operating segments and contributed approximately 90% of our consolidated revenues, earnings and funds from operations in 2016 (see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for more information on funds from operations, a non-gaap measure). we collect rent from our customers through operating leases, including reimbursements for the majority of our property operating costs. we expect to generate long-term internal growth by maintaining high occupancy rates, increasing rents and controlling expenses. we believe our active portfolio management, coupled with the skills of our property, leasing, maintenance, capital, energy and risk management teams, will allow us to maximize rental revenues across our portfolio. in 2016, over 90% of our consolidated revenues and noi in this segment were generated in the u.s. noi from this segment is calculated directly from our financial statements as rental revenues, rental recoveries and development management and other revenues less rental expenses and other expenses. development. we utilize (i) our land bank, (ii) the development expertise of our local teams, (iii) our customer relationships and (iv) our in-depth local knowledge in connection with our development activities. successful development and redevelopment efforts increase both the rental revenues and the net asset value of our real estate operations segment. we measure the value we created based on the increase in estimated fair value of a stabilized development property, as compared to the costs incurred. generally, we develop properties in the u.s. for long-term hold and outside the u.s. for contribution to our co-investment ventures. occasionally, we develop for sale to third parties. strategic capital real estate is a capital-intensive business that requires growth capital. our strategic capital business gives us access to third-party capital, both private and public, which allows us to diversify our sources of capital and therefore have a broader range of options to fund our growth. we co-invest with some of the world's largest institutional partners to grow our business and provide incremental revenues. we also access alternative sources of equity through two publicly traded vehicles: nippon prologis reit, inc. ( npr ) in japan and fibra prologis in mexico. we tailor logistics portfolios to meet our partners' specific needs, with a focus on long-term ventures and open-ended funds. we hold significant ownership interests in these ventures, aligning our interests with those of our partners. 5 we generate strategic capital revenues from our unconsolidated ventures principally through asset management and property management services, and we earn additional revenues by providing leasing, acquisition, construction, development, financing and disposition services. depending on the structure of the venture and the returns provided to our partners, we also earn revenues through incentive fees ( promotes ) periodically during the life of a venture or upon liquidation. in 2016, we earned promote revenues in europe of $89 million. approximately 40% of promote revenues are paid as a combination of cash and stock awards pursuant to the terms of the prologis promote plan and expensed through strategic capital expenses. this segment contributed approximately 10% of our consolidated revenues, earnings and funds from operations in 2016. we plan to grow this business through increasing the assets under management in our existing ventures. in 2016, approximately 90% of the consolidated revenues and noi in this segment were generated outside the u.s. noi in this segment is calculated as strategic capital revenues less strategic capital expenses directly from each line item in the consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data and does not include property related noi. competition competitively priced logistics space could impact our occupancy rates and have an adverse effect on how much rent we can charge, which in turn could affect both of our operating segments. we may face competition with regard to our capital deployment activities, including local, regional and national operators or developers. we also face competition from investment managers for institutional capital within our strategic capital business. we believe we have competitive advantages due to our: properties being focused in the world's primary population centers with high barriers to entry and supported by extensive transportation infrastructure; ability to respond quickly to customers' needs for high-quality logistics facilities; established relationships with key customers served by our local teams; ability to leverage our organizational scale and structure to provide a single point of contact for our focus customers through our global customer solutions team; property management and leasing expertise; relationships and proven track record with current and prospective investors in our strategic capital business; experience developing and managing logistics facilities; well-positioned land bank; and team members with experience in the land entitlement and development processes. customers our broad customer base represents a spectrum of international, national, regional and local logistics users. at december 31, 2016, in our real estate operations segment representing our consolidated properties, we had more than 3,200 customers occupying 334 million square feet of logistics space. on an owned and managed basis, we had more than 5,200 customers occupying 625 million square feet of logistics space. in our strategic capital segment, we view our partners and investors as our customers. at december 31, 2016, in our private ventures, we partnered with approximately 100 investors, several of which invest in multiple ventures. 6 the following table details our top 25 customers at december 31, 2016 (square feet in millions): consolidated real estate operations owned and managed top customers % of ner (1) total occupied square feet top customers % of ner (1) total occupied square feet 1. amazon.com 5.0 13 1. amazon.com 3.1 15 2. home depot 1.8 5 2. dhl 1.6 10 3. fedex 1.3 3 3. geodis 1.2 9 4. xpo logistics 1.0 4 4. xpo logistics 1.2 9 5. wal-mart 0.9 3 5. kuehne + nagel 1.1 7 6. bmw 0.9 3 6. fedex 1.0 4 7. u.s. government 0.9 1 7. home depot 0.9 6 8. ingram micro 0.8 2 8. ceva logistics 0.9 6 9. pepsico 0.7 3 9. wal-mart 0.8 5 10. dsv air and sea 0.6 2 10. dsv air and sea 0.8 5 top 10 customers 13.9 39 top 10 customers 12.6 76 11. ups 0.6 2 11. nippon express 0.7 3 12. kuehne + nagel 0.6 2 12. bmw 0.6 4 13. apl logistics 0.6 2 13. ups 0.6 3 14. best buy 0.6 2 14. hitachi 0.5 2 15. dhl 0.5 2 15. db schenker 0.5 4 16. cal cartage company 0.5 1 16. u.s. government 0.5 1 17. sears 0.5 2 17. tesco 0.5 3 18. kimberly-clark 0.5 2 18. ingram micro 0.5 3 19. geodis 0.5 2 19. panalpina 0.4 2 20. nfi industries 0.4 2 20. pepsico 0.4 3 21. office depot 0.4 1 21. samsung electronics 0.3 2 22. kellogg's 0.4 2 22. best buy 0.3 2 23. mohawk industries 0.4 1 23. apl logistics 0.3 2 24. c&amp;s wholesale grocers 0.4 1 24. under armour 0.3 2 25. anixter 0.4 1 25. la poste 0.3 2 top 25 customers 21.2 64 top 25 customers 19.3 114 (1) net effective rent ( ner ) is calculated using the estimated total cash to be received over the term of the lease (including base rent and expense reimbursements) divided by the lease term to determine the amount of rent and expense reimbursements received per year. amounts derived in a currency other than the u.s. dollar have been translated using the average rate from the previous twelve months. employees the following table summarizes our employee base at december 31, 2016: regions number of employees u.s. (1) 830 other americas 105 europe 370 asia 225 total 1,530 (1) this includes employees who are employed in the u.s. but also support other regions. we allocate our employees who perform property management functions to our real estate operations segment and strategic capital segment based on the size of the respective portfolios. employees who perform only strategic capital functions are allocated directly to that segment. we believe we have good relationships with our employees. prologis employees are not organized under collective bargaining agreements, although some employees in europe are represented by statutory works councils and as such, benefit from applicable labor agreements. code of ethics and business conduct we maintain a code of ethics and business conduct applicable to our board of directors (the board ) and all of our officers and employees, including the principal executive officer, the principal financial officer and the principal accounting officer, and other people performing similar functions. a copy of our code of ethics and business conduct is available on our website, www.prologis.com . in addition to being accessible through our website, copies of our code of ethics and business conduct can be obtai ned, free of charge, upon written request to investor relations, pier 1, bay 1, san francisco, california 94111. any amendments to or waivers of our code of ethics and business conduct that apply to the principal executive officer, the principal financial officer, the principal accounting officer, or other people performing similar functions, and that relate to any matter enumerated in item 406(b) of regulation s-k, will be disclosed on our website. 7 e nvironmental matters we are exposed to various environmental risks that may result in unanticipated losses and affect our operating results and financial condition. either the previous owners or we have conducted environmental reviews on a majority of the properties we have acquired, including land. while some of these assessments have led to further investigation and sampling, none of the environmental assessments has revealed an environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see further discussion in item 1a. risk factors and note 17 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. insurance coverage we carry insurance coverage on our properties. we determine the type of coverage and the policy specifications and limits based on what we deem to be the risks associated with our ownership of properties and our business operations in specific markets. such coverage typically includes property damage and rental loss insurance resulting from such perils as fire, windstorm, flood, earthquake and terrorism; commercial general liability insurance; and environmental insurance. insurance is maintained through a combination of commercial insurance, self-insurance and a wholly-owned captive insurance entity. the costs to insure our properties are primarily covered through reimbursements from our customers. we believe that our insurance coverage contains policy specifications and insured limits that are customary for similar properties, business activities and markets and we believe our properties are adequately insured. see further discussion in item 1a. risk factors. item 1a. risk factors our operations and structure involve various risks that could adversely affect our business and financial condition, including but not limited to, our financial position, results of operations, cash flow, ability to make distributions and payments to security holders and the market value of our securities. these risks relate to our consolidated company as well as our investments in unconsolidated entities and include among others, (i) general risks; (ii) risks related to our business; (iii) risks related to financing and capital and (iv) income tax risks. general risks as a global company, we are subject to social, political and economic risks of doing business in many countries. we conduct a significant portion of our business and employ a substantial number of people outside of the u.s. during 2016, we generated approximately $453 million or 17.9% of our revenues from operations outside the u.s. circumstances and developments related to international and u.s. operations that could negatively affect us include, but are not limited to, the following factors: difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations in certain regions, including differing employment practices and labor issues; local businesses and cultural factors that differ from our usual standards and practices; volatility in currencies and currency restrictions, which may prevent the transfer of capital and profits to the u.s.; challenges in establishing effective controls and procedures to regulate operations in different regions and to monitor compliance with applicable regulations, such as the foreign corrupt practices act, the united kingdom ( u.k. ) bribery act and other similar laws; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tax, tariffs and other laws within the u.s. or other countries in which we operate; potentially adverse tax consequences; the responsibility of complying with multiple and potentially conflicting laws, e.g., with respect to corrupt practices, employment and licensing; the impact of regional or country-specific business cycles and economic instability, including instability in, or further withdrawals from, the european union or other international trade alliances or agreements; political instability, uncertainty over property rights, civil unrest, drug trafficking, political activism or the continuation or escalation of terrorist or gang activities; foreign ownership restrictions in operations with the respective countries; and access to capital may be more restricted, or unavailable on favorable terms or at all in certain locations. in addition, we may be impacted by the ability of our non-u.s. subsidiaries to dividend or otherwise transfer cash among our subsidiaries, including transfers of cash to pay interest and principal on our debt, due to currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations and potentially adverse tax consequences, among other factors. 8 disruptions in the global capital and credit markets may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. to the extent there is turmoil in the global financial markets, this turmoil has the potential to adversely affect (i) the value of our properties; (ii) the availability or the terms of financing that we have or may anticipate utilizing; (iii) our ability to make principal and interest payments on, or refinance any outstanding debt when due; and (iv) the ability of our customers to enter into new leasing transactions or satisfy rental payments under existing leases. disruptions in the capital and credit markets may also adversely affect our ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities. our business and operations could suffer in the event of system failures or cyber security attacks. despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal and hosted information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from any number of sources, including energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war, telecommunication failures and cyber security attacks, such as computer viruses or unauthorized access. any system failure or accident that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to our business. we may also incur additional costs to remedy damages caused by such disruptions. any compromise of our security could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, unauthorized access to information of ours and others, significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, loss or misuse of the information and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could harm our business. risks associated with our dependence on key personnel. we depend on the deep industry knowledge and the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. from time to time, our personnel and their roles may change. while we believe that we are able to retain our key talent and find suitable employees to meet our personnel needs, the loss of key personnel, any change in their roles or the limitation of their availability could adversely affect our business. if we are unable to continue to attract and retain our executive officers, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain key employees become more expensive, our performance and competitive position could be materially adversely affected. our business could be adversely impacted if we have deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting. the design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors, misstatements or misrepresentations. while management continually reviews the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, there can be no guarantee that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. deficiencies, including any material weakness, in our internal control over financial reporting that may occur in the future could result in misstatements or restatements of our financial statements or a decline in the price of our securities. the depreciation in the value of the foreign currency in countries where we have a significant investment may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. we pursue growth opportunities in international markets where the u.s. dollar is not the functional currency. at december 31, 2016, approximately $6.6 billion or 22.0% of our total consolidated assets are invested in a currency other than the u.s. dollar, primarily the british pound sterling, canadian dollar, euro and japanese yen. as a result, we are subject to foreign currency risk due to potential fluctuations in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the u.s. dollar. a significant change in the value of the foreign currency of one or more countries where we have a significant investment may have a material adverse effect on our business and, in particular, our u.s. dollar reported financial position and results of operations and debt covenant ratios. although we attempt to mitigate adverse effects by borrowing under debt agreements denominated in foreign currencies and using derivative contracts, there can be no assurance that those attempts to mitigate foreign currency risk will be successful. our hedging of foreign currency and interest rate risk may not effectively limit our exposure to other risks. hedging arrangements involve risks, such as the risk of fluctuation in the relative value of the foreign currency or interest rates and the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements. the funds required to settle such arrangements could be significant depending on the stability and movement of the hedged foreign currency or the size of the underlying financing and the applicable interest rates at the time of the breakage. the failure to hedge effectively against foreign exchange changes or interest rate changes may adversely affect our business. compliance or failure to comply with regulatory requirements could result in substantial costs. we are required to comply with many regulations in different countries, including (but not limited to) the foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k bribery act and similar laws and regulations. our properties are also subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as the americans with disabilities act and state and local fire and life-safety requirements. noncompliance could result in the imposition of governmental fines or the award of damages to private litigants. while we believe that we are currently in material compliance with these regulatory requirements, the requirements may change or new requirements may be imposed that could require significant unanticipated expenditures by us. if we are required to make unanticipated expenditures to comply with these regulations, we may be adversely affected. 9 risks related to our business real estate investments are not as liquid as certain other types of assets, which may reduce economic returns to investors. real estate investments are not as liquid as certain other types of investments and this lack of liquidity may limit our ability to react promptly to changes in economic or other conditions. significant expenditures associated with real estate investments, such as secured mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs, are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from the investments. as a reit, under the internal revenue code, we are only able to hold property for sale in the ordinary course of business through taxable reit subsidiaries in order to not incur punitive taxation on any tax gain from the sale of such property. we may dispose of certain properties that have been held for investment to generate liquidity. if we do not satisfy certain safe harbors or we believe there is too much risk of incurring the punitive tax on any tax gain from the sale, we may not pursue such sales. we may decide to sell properties to certain of our unconsolidated co-investment ventures or third parties to generate proceeds to fund our capital deployment activities. our ability to sell properties on advantageous terms is affected by: (i) competition from other owners of properties that are trying to dispose of their properties; (ii) market conditions, including the capitalization rates applicable to our properties; and (iii) other factors beyond our control. if our competitors sell assets similar to assets we intend to divest in the same markets or at valuations below our valuations for comparable assets, we may be unable to divest our assets at favorable pricing or at all. the unconsolidated co-investment ventures or third parties who might acquire our properties may need to have access to debt and equity capital, in the private and public markets, in order to acquire properties from us. should they have limited or no access to capital on favorable terms, then dispositions could be delayed. if we do not have sufficient cash available to us through our operations, sales or contributions of properties or available credit facilities to continue operating our business as usual, we may need to find alternative ways to increase our liquidity. such alternatives may include, without limitation, divesting ourselves of properties, whether or not they otherwise meet our strategic objectives to keep in the long term, at less than optimal terms, incurring debt, entering into leases with new customers at lower rental rates or less than optimal terms or entering into lease renewals with our existing customers without an increase in rental rates. there can be no assurance, however, that such alternative ways to increase our liquidity will be available to us. additionally, taking such measures to increase our liquidity may adversely affect our business, and in particular, our distributable cash flow and debt covenants. our investments are concentrated in the logistics sector and our business would be adversely affected by an economic downturn in that sector. our investments in real estate assets are concentrated in the logistics sector. this concentration may expose us to the risk of economic downturns in this sector to a greater extent than if our business activities were more diversified. general economic conditions and other events or occurrences that affect areas in which our properties are geographically concentrated, may impact financial results. we are exposed to general economic conditions, local, regional, national and international economic conditions and other events and occurrences that affect the markets in which we own properties. our operating performance is further impacted by the economic conditions of the specific markets in which we have concentrations of properties. at december 31, 2016, approximately 33.0% of our consolidated operating properties or $8.0 billion (based on consolidated gross book value, or investment before depreciation) are located in california, which represented 26.3% of the aggregate square footage of our operating properties and 33.7% of our noi. our revenues from, and the value of, our properties located in california may be affected by local real estate conditions (such as an oversupply of or reduced demand for logistics properties) and the local economic climate. business layoffs, downsizing, industry slowdowns, changing demographics and other factors may adversely impact california's economic climate. because of the number of properties, we have located in california, a downturn in california's economy or real estate conditions could adversely affect our business. in addition to california, we also have significant holdings (defined as more than 3.0% of total consolidated investment before depreciation) in operating properties in certain markets located in central and eastern pennsylvania, chicago, dallas/fort worth, new jersey/new york city, seattle and south florida. our operating performance could be adversely affected if conditions become less favorable in any of the markets in which we have a concentration of properties. conditions such as an oversupply of logistics space or a reduction in demand for logistics space, among other factors, may impact operating conditions. any material oversupply of logistics space or material reduction in demand for logistics space could adversely affect our overall business. in addition, our owned and managed portfolio, including the unconsolidated co-investment ventures in which we invest, has concentrations of properties in the same markets mentioned above, as well as in markets in france, germany, japan and the u.k., and are subject to the economic conditions in those markets. a number of our investments, both wholly-owned and owned through co-investment ventures, are located in areas that are known to be subject to earthquake activity. u.s. properties located in active seismic areas include properties in the san francisco bay area, los angeles, and seattle. international properties located in active seismic areas include japan and mexico. we generally carry earthquake insurance on our properties located in areas historically subject to seismic activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles, if we believe it is commercially reasonable. we evaluate our earthquake insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants and in some specific instances have elected to self-insure our earthquake exposure based on this analysis. we have elected not to carry earthquake insurance for our assets in japan based on this analysis. 10 furthermore, a number of our properties are located in areas that are known to be subject to hurricane or flood risk. we carry hurricane and flood hazard insurance on all of our properties located in areas historically subject to such activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles, if we believe it is commercially reasonable. we evaluate our insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants. investments in real estate properties are subject to risks that could adversely affect our business. investments in real estate properties are subject to varying degrees of risk. while we seek to minimize these risks through geographic diversification of our portfolio, market research and our asset management capabilities, these risks cannot be eliminated. factors that may affect real estate values and cash flows include: local conditions, such as oversupply or a reduction in demand; technological changes, such as reconfiguration of supply chains, autonomous vehicles, robotics, 3d printing or other technologies; the attractiveness of our properties to potential customers and competition from other available properties; increasing costs of maintaining, insuring, renovating and making improvements to our properties; our ability to rehabilitate and reposition our properties due to changes in the business and logistics needs of our customers; our ability to control rents and variable operating costs; and governmental regulations and the associated potential liability under, and changes in, environmental, zoning, usage, tax, tariffs and other laws. we may be unable to lease vacant space or renew leases or re-lease space on favorable terms as leases expire. our operating results and distributable cash flow would be adversely affected if a significant number of our customers were unable to meet their lease obligations. we are also subject to the risk that, upon the expiration of leases for space located in our properties, leases may not be renewed by existing customers, the space may not be re-leased to new customers or the terms of renewal or re-leasing (including the cost of required renovations or concessions to customers) may be less favorable to us than current lease terms. our competitors may offer space at rental rates below current market rates or below the rental rates we currently charge our customers, we may lose potential customers, and we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we currently charge to retain customers when our customers' leases expire. in the event of default by a significant number of customers, we may experience delays and incur substantial costs in enforcing our rights as landlord, and we may be unable to re-lease spaces. a customer may experience a downturn in its business, which may cause the loss of the customer or may weaken its financial condition, resulting in the customer's failure to make rental payments when due or requiring a restructuring that might reduce cash flow from the lease. in addition, a customer may seek the protection of bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws, which could result in the rejection and termination of such customer's lease and thereby cause a reduction in our available cash flow. we may acquire properties, which involves risks that could adversely affect our business and financial condition. we have acquired properties and will continue to acquire properties, both through the direct acquisition of real estate and through the acquisition of entities that own the real estate and through additional investments in co-investment ventures that acquire properties. the acquisition of properties involves risks, including the risk that the acquired property will not perform as anticipated and that any actual costs for rehabilitation, repositioning, renovation and improvements identified in the pre-acquisition due diligence process will exceed estimates. when we acquire properties, we may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local economy, forging new business relationships in the area and unfamiliarity with local government and permitting procedures. additionally, there is, and it is expected there will continue to be, significant competition for properties that meet our investment criteria as well as risks associated with obtaining financing for acquisition activities. the acquired properties or entities may be subject to liabilities, which may be without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities. as a result, if a liability were asserted against us based on ownership of any of these entities or properties, then we may have to pay substantial sums to settle it. our real estate development strategies may not be successful. our real estate development strategy is focused on monetizing land in the future through development of logistics facilities to hold for long-term investment, contribution or sale to a co-investment venture or third party, depending on market conditions, our liquidity needs and other factors. we may increase our investment in the development, renovation and redevelopment business and we expect to complete the build-out and leasing of our current development portfolio. we may also develop, renovate and redevelop properties within existing or newly formed co-investment ventures. the real estate development, renovation and redevelopment business includes the following significant risks: we may not be able to obtain financing for development projects on favorable terms or at all; we may explore development opportunities that may be abandoned and the related investment impaired; 11 we may not be able to obtain, or may experience delays in obtaining, all necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other governmental permits and authorizations; we may have construction costs, total investment amounts and our share of remaining funding that exceed our estimates and projects may not be completed, delivered or stabilized as planned due to defects or other issues; we may not be able to attract third-party investment in new development co-investment ventures or sufficient customer demand for our product; we may have properties that perform below anticipated levels, producing cash flow below budgeted amounts; we may seek to sell certain land parcels and not be able to find a third party to acquire such land or the sales price will not allow us to recover our investment, resulting in impairment charges; we may not be able to lease properties we develop on favorable terms or at all; we may not be able to capture the anticipated enhanced value created by our value-added properties on expected timetables or at all; we may experience delays (temporary or permanent) if there is public or government opposition to our activities; and we may have substantial renovation, new development and redevelopment activities, regardless of their ultimate success, that require a significant amount of management's time and attention, diverting their attention from our day-to-day operations. we are subject to risks and liabilities in connection with forming co-investment ventures, investing in new or existing co-investment ventures, attracting third-party investment and investing in and managing properties through co-investment ventures. at december 31, 2016, we had investments in real estate containing approximately 403 million square feet held through co-investment ventures, both public and private. our organizational documents do not limit the amount of available funds that we may invest in these ventures, and we may and currently intend to develop and acquire properties through co-investment ventures and investments in other entities when warranted by the circumstances. however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to form new co-investment ventures, or attract third-party investment or that additional investments in new or existing ventures to develop or acquire properties will be successful. further, there can be no assurance that we are able to realize value from such investments. our co-investment ventures involve certain additional risks that we do not otherwise face, including: our partners may share certain approval rights over major decisions made on behalf of the ventures; if our partners fail to fund their share of any required capital contributions, then we may choose to contribute such capital; our partners might have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals that would affect our ability to operate the property; the venture or other governing agreements often restrict the transfer of an interest in the co-investment venture or may otherwise restrict our ability to sell the interest when we desire or on advantageous terms; our relationships with our partners are generally contractual in nature and may be terminated or dissolved under the terms of the agreements, and in such event, we may not continue to manage or invest in the assets underlying such relationships resulting in reduced fee revenues or causing a need to purchase such interest to continue ownership; and disputes between us and our partners may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and directors from focusing their time and effort on our business and result in subjecting the properties owned by the applicable co-investment venture to additional risk. we generally seek to maintain sufficient influence over our co-investment ventures to permit us to achieve our business objectives; however, we may not be able to continue to do so indefinitely. we have formed publicly traded investment vehicles, such as npr and fibra prologis, for which we serve as sponsor or manager. we have contributed, and may continue to contribute, assets into such vehicles. there is a risk that our managerial relationship may be terminated. we are exposed to various environmental risks, including the potential impacts of future climate change, which may result in unanticipated losses that could affect our business and financial condition. under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner, developer or operator of real estate may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances. the costs of removal or remediation of such substances could be substantial. such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator 12 knew of, or was responsible for, the release or presence of such hazardous substances. in addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages based on personal injury, property damage or other costs, includi ng investigation and clean-up costs, resulting from the environmental contamination. environmental laws in some countries, including the u.s., also require that owners or operators of buildings containing asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos, adequately inform or train those who may come into contact with asbestos and undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, in the event that asbestos is disturbed during building renovation or demolition. these laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos. some of our properties are known to contain asbestos-containing building materials. in addition, some of our properties are leased or have been leased, in part, to owners and operators of businesses that use, store or otherwise handle petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, creating a potential for the release of such hazardous or toxic substances. furthermore, certain of our properties are on, adjacent to or near other properties that have contained or currently contain petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, or upon which others have engaged, are engaged or may engage in activities that may release such hazardous or toxic substances. from time to time, we may acquire properties, or interests in properties, with known adverse environmental conditions for which we believe that the environmental liabilities associated with these conditions are quantifiable and that the acquisition will yield a superior risk-adjusted return. in connection with certain divested properties, we have agreed to remain responsible for, and to bear the cost of, remediating or monitoring certain environmental conditions on the properties. we are also exposed to potential physical risks from possible future changes in climate. our logistics facilities may be exposed to rare catastrophic weather events, such as severe storms or floods. if the frequency of extreme weather events increases due to climate change, our exposure to these events could increase. we do not currently consider ourselves to be exposed to regulatory risks related to climate change, as our operations generally do not emit a significant amount of greenhouse gases. however, we may be adversely impacted as a real estate developer in the future by potential impacts to the supply chain or stricter energy efficiency standards for buildings. we cannot give any assurance that other such conditions do not exist or may not arise in the future. the presence of such substances on our real estate properties could adversely affect our ability to lease, develop or sell such properties or to borrow using such properties as collateral, and this may have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition, and in particular, our distributable cash flow. our insurance coverage does not include all potential losses. we and our unconsolidated co-investment ventures carry insurance coverage including property damage and rental loss insurance resulting from certain perils such as fire and additional perils as covered under an extended coverage policy, namely windstorm, flood, earthquake and terrorism; commercial general liability insurance; and environmental insurance, as appropriate for the markets where each of our properties and business operations are located. the insurance coverage contains policy specifications and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties, business activities and markets. we believe our properties and the properties of our unconsolidated co-investment ventures are adequately insured. certain losses, however, including losses from floods, earthquakes, acts of war, acts of terrorism or riots, generally are not insured against or generally are not fully insured against because it is not deemed economically feasible or prudent to do so. if an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs with respect to one or more of our properties, we could experience a significant loss of capital invested and future revenues in these properties and could potentially remain obligated under any recourse debt associated with the property. furthermore, we cannot be sure that the insurance companies will be able to continue to offer products with sufficient coverage at commercially reasonable rates. if we experience a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds insured limits with respect to one or more of our properties or if the insurance companies fail to meet their coverage commitments to us in the event of an insured loss, then we could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties, as well as the anticipated future revenues from those properties and, if there is recourse debt, then we would remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the properties. any such losses or higher insurance costs could adversely affect our business. risks related to financing and capital we may be unable to refinance our debt or our cash flow may be insufficient to make required debt payments. we are subject to risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest. there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any maturing indebtedness, that such refinancing would be on terms as favorable as the terms of the maturing indebtedness, or that we will be able to otherwise obtain funds by selling assets or raising equity to make required payments on maturing indebtedness. if we are unable to refinance our indebtedness at maturity or meet our payment obligations, our business and financial condition will be negatively impacted and, if the maturing debt is secured, the lender may foreclose on the property securing such indebtedness. our credit facilities and certain other debt bears interest at variable rates. increases in interest rates would increase our interest expense under these agreements. covenants in our credit agreements could limit our flexibility and breaches of these covenants could adversely affect our financial condition. the terms of our various credit agreements, including our credit facilities, the indentures under which our senior notes are issued and other note agreements, require us to comply with a number of customary financial covenants, such as maintaining debt service 13 coverage, leverage ratios, fixed charge ratios and other ope rating covenants including maintaining insurance coverage. these covenants may limit our flexibility to run our business, and breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable indebtedness. if we default un der the covenant provisions and are unable to cure the default, refinance the indebtedness or meet payment obligations, our business and financial condition generally and, in particular, the amount of our distributable cash flow could be adversely affected . adverse changes in our credit ratings could negatively affect our financing activity. the credit ratings of our senior unsecured notes and preferred stock are based on our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position and other factors employed by the credit rating agencies in their rating analyses of us. our credit ratings can affect the amount of capital we can access, as well as the terms and pricing of any debt we may incur. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings, and in the event our credit ratings are downgraded, we would likely incur higher borrowing costs and may encounter difficulty in obtaining additional financing. also, a downgrade in our credit ratings may trigger additional payments or other negative consequences under our credit facilities and other debt instruments. adverse changes in our credit ratings could negatively impact our business and, in particular, our refinancing and other capital market activities, our ability to manage debt maturities, our future growth and our development and acquisition activity. at december 31, 2016, our credit ratings were a3 from moody's and a- from s&amp;p, both with stable outlook. a securities rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating organization. we depend on external sources of capital. to qualify as a reit, we are required each year to distribute at least 90% of our reit taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends-paid deduction and by excluding any net capital gain) to our stockholders and we may be subject to tax to the extent our taxable income is not fully distributed. historically, we have satisfied these distribution requirements by making cash distributions to our stockholders, but we may choose to satisfy these requirements by making distributions of cash or other property, including, in limited circumstances, our own stock. for distributions with respect to taxable years that ended on or before december 31, 2016, and in some cases declared as late as december 31, 2016, a reit can satisfy up to 90% of the distribution requirements discussed above through the distribution of shares of our stock if certain conditions are met. assuming we continue to satisfy these distribution requirements with cash, we may not be able to fund all future capital needs, including acquisition and development activities, from cash retained from operations and may have to rely on third-party sources of capital. furthermore, to maintain our reit status and not have to pay federal income and excise taxes, we may need to borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the reit distribution requirements even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings. these short-term borrowing needs could result from differences in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for federal income tax purposes, or the effect of nondeductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt or amortization payments. our ability to access debt and equity capital on favorable terms or at all depends on a number of factors, including general market conditions, the market's perception of our growth potential, our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions and the market price of our securities. our stockholders may experience dilution if we issue additional common stock or units in the operating partnership. any additional future issuance of common stock or operating partnership units will reduce the percentage of our common stock and units owned by investors. in most circumstances, stockholders and unitholders will not be entitled to vote on whether or not we issue additional common stock or units. in addition, depending on the terms and pricing of any additional offering of our common stock or units and the value of the properties, our stockholders and unitholders may experience dilution in both book value and fair value of their common stock or units. income tax risks the failure of prologis, inc. to qualify as a reit would have serious adverse consequences. prologis, inc. elected to be taxed as a reit under sections 856 through 860 of the internal revenue code commencing with the taxable year ended december 31, 1997. we believe we have operated prologis, inc. to qualify as a reit under the internal revenue code and believe that the current organization and method of operation comply with the rules and regulations promulgated under the internal revenue code to enable prologis, inc. to continue to qualify as a reit. however, it is possible that we are organized or have operated in a manner that would not allow prologis, inc. to qualify as a reit, or that our future operations could cause prologis, inc. to fail to qualify. qualification as a reit requires us to satisfy numerous requirements (some annually and others on a quarterly basis) established under highly technical and complex sections of the internal revenue code for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations, and involves the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. for example, to qualify as a reit, prologis, inc. must derive at least 95% of its gross income in any year from qualifying sources. in addition, prologis, inc. must pay dividends to its stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of its taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding capital gains) and must satisfy specified asset tests on a quarterly basis. the provisions of the internal revenue code and applicable treasury regulations regarding qualification as a reit are more complicated for prologis, inc. because we hold assets through the operating partnership. if prologis, inc. fails to qualify as a reit in any taxable year, we will be required to pay federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on taxable income at regular corporate rates. unless we are entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, prologis, inc. would be disqualified from treatment as a reit for the four taxable years following the year in which it lost the qualification. if prologis, inc. lost its reit status, our net earnings would be significantly reduced for each of the years involved. 14 furthermore, we own a direct or indirect interest in certain subsidiary reits that elected to be taxed as reits under sections 856 through 860 of the internal revenue code. provided that each subsidiary reit qualifies as a reit, our interest in such subsidiary reit will be treated as a qualifying real estate asset for purposes of the reit asset tests, and any dividend income or gains derived by us from such subsidiary reit will generally be treated as income that qualifies for purposes of the reit gross income tests. to qualify as a reit, the subsidiary reit must independently satisfy all of the reit qualification requirements. if such subsidiary reit were to fail to qualify as a reit, and certain relief provisions did not apply, it would be treated as a regular taxable corporation and its income would be subject to u.s. federal income tax. in addition, a failure of the subsidiary reit to qualify as a reit would have an adverse effect on the ability of prologis, inc. to comply with the reit income and asset tests, and thus its ability to qualify as a reit. certain property transfers may generate prohibited transaction income, resulting in a penalty tax on gain attributable to the transaction. from time to time, we may transfer or otherwise dispose of some of our properties, including by contributing properties to our co-investment ventures. under the internal revenue code, any gain resulting from transfers of properties we hold as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is treated as income from a prohibited transaction subject to a 100% penalty tax. we do not believe that our transfers or disposals of property or our contributions of properties into our co-investment ventures are prohibited transactions. however, whether property is held for investment purposes is a question of fact that depends on all the facts and circumstances surrounding the particular transaction. the internal revenue service may contend that certain transfers or dispositions of properties by us or contributions of properties into our co-investment ventures are prohibited transactions. while we believe that the internal revenue service would not prevail in any such dispute, if the internal revenue service were to argue successfully that a transfer, disposition or contribution of property constituted a prohibited transaction, we would be required to pay a 100% penalty tax on any gain allocable to us from the prohibited transaction. in addition, income from a prohibited transaction might adversely affect our ability to satisfy the income tests for qualification as a reit. legislative or regulatory action could adversely affect us. in recent years, numerous legislative, judicial and administrative changes have been made to the u.s. and foreign income tax laws applicable to investments in real estate, reits, similar entities and investments. additional changes are likely to continue to occur in the future, both in and outside of the u.s. and may impact our taxation or that of our stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to the impact of foreign exchange-related variability and earnings volatility on our foreign investments and interest rate changes. see our risk factors in item 1a. risk factors, specifically: the depreciation in the value of the foreign currency in countries where we have a significant investment may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position and we may be unable to refinance our debt or our cash flow may be insufficient to make required debt payments. see also notes 2 and 16 in the consolidated financial statements inrisk factors in this report. we under take no duty to update any forward-looking statements appearing in this report except as may be required by law. part i item 1. business prologis, inc. is a self-administered and self-managed reit and is the sole general partner of prologis, l.p. we operate prologis, inc. and prologis, l.p. as one enterprise and, therefore, our discussion and analysis refers to prologis, inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, including prologis, l.p., collectively. we invest in real estate through wholly owned subsid iaries and other entities through which we co-invest with partners and investors. we maintain a significant level of ownership in these co-investment ventures, which may be consolidated or unconsolidated based on our level of control of the entity. prologis, inc. began operating as a fully integrated real estate company in 1997 and elected to be taxed as a reit under the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended ( internal revenue code ). we believe the current organization and method of operation will enable prologis, inc. to maintain its status as a reit. prologis, l.p. was also formed in 1997. we operate our business on an owned and managed basis, including properties that we wholly own and properties that are owned by one of our co-investment ventures. we make decisions based on the property operations, regardless of our ownership interest, therefore we generally evaluate operating metrics on an owned and managed basis. our corporate headquarters is located at pier 1, bay 1, san francisco, california 94111, and our other principal office locations are in amsterdam, denver, luxembourg, mexico city, shanghai, singapore and tokyo. our internet address is www.prologis.com . all reports required to be filed with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ) are available and can be accessed free of charge through the investor relations section of our website, www.prologis.com . the common stock of prologis, inc. is listed on the new york stock exchange ( nyse ) under the ticker pld and is a component of the standard &amp; poor's ( s&amp;p ) 500. the company prologis is the global leader in logistics real estate with a focus on high-barrier, high-growth markets in 19 countries. we own, manage and develop well-located, high-quality logistics facilities in the world's busiest consumption markets. our local teams actively manage our portfolio, which encompasses leasing and property management, capital deployment and opportunistic dispositions allowing us to recycle capital to fund our development and acquisition activities. the majority of our properties in the united states ( u.s. ) are wholly owned, while our properties outside the u.s. are generally held in co-investment ventures, reducing our exposure to foreign currency movements. our portfolio benefits from key drivers of economic activity, including consumption, supply chain modernization, e-commerce and urbanization. in the developed markets of the u.s., europe and japan, key factors are the reconfiguration of supply chains (strongly influenced by e-commerce trends), and the operational efficiencies that can be realized from our modern logistics facilities. in emerging markets, such as brazil, china and mexico, new affluence and the rise of a new consumer class have increased the need for modern distribution networks. our strategy is to own the highest-quality logistics property portfolio in each of our target markets. these markets are characterized by large population densities and consumption and typically offer proximity to large labor pools and are supported by extensive transportation infrastructure (major airports, seaports and rail and highway networks). customers turn to us because they know an efficient supply chain will make their businesses run better, and that a strategic relationship with prologis will create a competitive advantage. 3 at december 31, 2017, we owned or had investments in, on a wholly-owned basis or through co-investment ventures, properties and development projects (based on gross book value and total expected investment ( tei )), totaling $57.5 billion across 684 million square feet (64 million square meters) across four continents. our investment totals $32.9 billion and consists of our wholly-owned properties and our pro rata (or ownership) share of the properties owned by our co-investment ventures. we lease modern logistics facilities to a diverse base of approximately 5,000 customers. throughout this document, we reflect amounts in u.s. dollars, our reporting currency. included in these amounts are consolidated and unconsolidated investments denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the british pound sterling, euro and japanese yen that are impacted by fluctuations in exchange rates when translated into u.s. dollars. we mitigate our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations by investing outside the u.s. through co-investment ventures, borrowing in local currency and utilizing derivative financial instruments. at december 31, 2017, 94.4% of our net equity (calculated on a gross book value basis) is denominated in u.s. dollars including our proportionate share of our unconsolidated co-investment ventures and derivative financial instruments. operating segments our business comprises two operating segments: real estate operations and strategic capital. real estate operations rental generate revenues, net operating income ( noi ) and cash flows by increasing rents and maintaining high occupancy rates real estate operations development provide significant earnings growth as projects lease up and generate income strategic capital access third-party capital to grow our business and earn fees and promotes through long-term co-investment ventures 4 real estate operations rental. rental operations comprise the largest component of our operating segments and generally contributes 90% of our consolidated revenues, earnings and funds from operations ( ffo ) (see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for more information on ffo, a non-gaap measure). we collect rent from our customers through operating leases, including reimbursements for the majority of our property operating costs. we expect to generate long-term internal growth by increasing rents, maintaining high occupancy rates and controlling expenses. the primary drivers of our rent growth will be rolling in-place leases to current market rents. we believe our active portfolio management, coupled with the skills of our property, leasing, maintenance, capital, energy and risk management teams, will allow us to maximize rental revenues across our portfolio. most of our rental revenues and noi are generated in the u.s. noi from this segment is calculated directly from our financial statements as rental revenues, rental recoveries and development management and other revenues less rental expenses and other expenses. development. we develop properties to meet our customers' needs, deepen our market presence and refresh our portfolio quality. we believe we have a competitive advantage due to (i) the strategic locations of our land bank; (ii) the development expertise of our local teams; and (iii) the depth of our customer relationships. successful development and redevelopment efforts increase both the rental revenues and the net asset value of our real estate operations segment. we measure the development value we create based on the estimated fair value of a stabilized development property, as compared to the costs incurred. we develop properties in the u.s. for long-term hold or contribution to our unconsolidated co-investment venture and outside the u.s. we develop primarily for contribution to our co-investment ventures. occasionally, we develop for sale to third parties. strategic capital real estate is a capital-intensive business that requires new capital to grow. our strategic capital business gives us access to third-party capital, both private and public, allowing us to diversify our sources of capital and providing us with a broad range of options to fund our growth, while reducing our exposure to foreign currency movements for investments outside the u.s. we partner with some of the world's largest institutional investors to grow our business and provide incremental revenues, with a focus on long-term and open-ended ventures (also referred to as perpetual vehicles ). we also access alternative sources of equity through two publicly traded vehicles: nippon prologis reit, inc. in japan and fibra prologis in mexico. we hold significant ownership interests in all of our unconsolidated co-investment ventures (approximately 29% weighted average ownership based on each entity's contribution of total assets, before depreciation, net of other liabilities at december 31, 2017), aligning our interests with those of our partners. this segment produces stable, long-term cash flows and generally contributes 10% of our consolidated revenues, earnings and ffo. we generate strategic capital revenues from our unconsolidated co-investment ventures, primarily through asset and property management services, of which 90% are earned from long-term and open-ended ventures. we earn additional revenues by providing leasing, acquisition, construction, development, financing, legal and disposition services. in certain ventures, we also have the ability to earn revenues through incentive fees ( promotes ) periodically during the life of a venture or upon liquidation. we plan to profitably grow this business by increasing our assets under management in existing or new ventures. generally, the majority of the strategic capital revenues are generated outside the u.s. noi in this segment is calculated directly from our financial statements as strategic capital revenues less strategic capital expenses and does not include property-related noi. future growth we believe the quality and scale of our global portfolio, the expertise of our team, the depth of our customer relationships, and the strength of our balance sheet give us unique competitive advantages. our plan to grow revenues, noi, earnings, ffo and cash flows is based on the following: rent growth . we expect market rents to continue to grow over the next few years, driven by demand for the location and quality of our properties. due to strong market rent growth over the last several years, our in-place leases have considerable upside potential. we estimate that across our owned and managed portfolio, our leases on an aggregate basis are more than 14% below current market rent. therefore, even if market rents remain flat, a lease renewal will translate into increased future rental income, both on a consolidated basis and through the earnings we recognize from our unconsolidated co-investment ventures based on our ownership. this is reflected in the positive rent change on rollover (comparing the net effective rent of the new lease to the prior lease for the same space) in our owned and managed portfolio. we have experienced positive rent change on rollover for every quarter since 2013 and we expect this to continue for several more years. for 2017, our net effective rents increased 15.4% on lease rollover that represented approximately 23% of our owned and managed portfolio. value creation from development. a successful development and redevelopment program involves maintaining control of well-located and entitled land. based on our current estimates, our land bank, excluding land we have under an option contract, has the potential to support the development of $7.8 billion of tei of new logistics space. tei is the total estimated cost of development or expansion, including land, development and leasing costs without depreciation. we believe the carrying value of our land bank is below its current fair value, and we expect to realize this value going forward primarily through development. during 2017, we stabilized development projects with a tei of $1.9 billion, and we estimate the value of these buildings to be 28.8% above our cost to develop (defined as estimated margin and calculated using estimated yield and capitalization rates from our underwriting models), while increasing noi of our operating portfolio. 5 economies of scale from growth in assets under manageme nt. we have increased our owned and managed real estate assets by 91 million square feet (or approximately 17%) over the last three years through acquisitions and development, while strengthening our balance sheet and keeping our general and administrative ( g&amp;a ) expenses relatively flat. we have invested in technologies that we will continue to leverage to further streamline our operations and reduce our costs as a percentage of assets under management. competition competitively priced logistics space could impact our occupancy rates and have an adverse effect on how much rent we can charge, which in turn could affect our operating segments. we may face competition regarding our capital deployment activities, including local, regional and national operators or developers. we also face competition from investment managers for institutional capital within our strategic capital business. we believe we have competitive advantages due to our: properties in markets characterized by large population densities and consumption and typically offer proximity to large labor pools and are supported by extensive transportation infrastructure; ability to quickly respond to customers' needs for high-quality logistics facilities; established relationships with key customers served by our local teams; ability to leverage our organizational scale and structure to provide a single point of contact for our focus customers through our global customer solutions team; property management and leasing expertise; relationships and proven track record with current and prospective investors in our strategic capital business; strategic locations of our land bank; local teams with development expertise; and balance sheet strength, credit ratings and significant liquidity. customers our broad customer base represents a spectrum of international, national, regional and local logistics users. at december 31, 2017, in our real estate operations segment representing our consolidated properties, we had more than 2,800 customers occupying 299 million square feet of logistics operating properties. on an owned and managed basis, we had approximately 5,000 customers occupying 630 million square feet of logistics operating properties. 6 the following table details our top 25 customers at december 31, 2017 (square feet in millions): consolidated real estate operations owned and managed top customers % of ner (1) total occupied square feet top customers % of ner (1) total occupied square feet 1. amazon.com 4.9 13 1. amazon.com 3.0 17 2. home depot 1.8 6 2. dhl 1.5 11 3. fedex 1.6 3 3. geodis 1.2 9 4. wal-mart 1.3 4 4. xpo logistics 1.2 10 5. xpo logistics 0.9 3 5. kuehne + nagel 1.1 7 6. ups 0.9 2 6. dsv air and sea inc. 1.0 5 7. nfi 0.8 2 7. home depot 1.0 7 8. u.s. government 0.8 1 8. fedex 0.9 3 9. geodis 0.8 2 9. wal-mart 0.8 5 10. dhl 0.7 2 10. ceva logistics 0.7 5 top 10 customers 14.5 38 top 10 customers 12.4 79 11. kimberly-clark corporation 0.7 3 11. nippon express 0.7 3 12. pepsico 0.7 3 12. ups 0.6 4 13. office depot 0.6 2 13. bmw 0.6 4 14. dsv air and sea inc. 0.5 2 14. db schenker 0.6 4 15. ingram micro 0.5 2 15. hitachi 0.6 2 16. best buy 0.5 1 16. ingram micro 0.5 4 17. kuehne + nagel 0.5 1 17. u.s. government 0.5 1 18. apl logistics 0.5 2 18. panalpina 0.4 3 19. georgia-pacific corporation 0.4 1 19. pepsico 0.3 3 20. kohler 0.4 3 20. office depot 0.3 2 21. c&amp;s wholesale grocers 0.4 1 21. best buy 0.3 2 22. kellogg's 0.4 2 22. apl logistics 0.3 3 23. essendant 0.4 2 23. kimberly-clark corporation 0.3 3 24. ford motor company 0.3 1 24. tesco 0.3 2 25. mondelez international 0.3 1 25. schneider electric 0.3 1 top 25 customers 21.6 65 top 25 customers 19.0 120 (1) net effective rent ( ner ) is calculated using the estimated total cash to be received over the term of the lease (including base rent and expense reimbursements) divided by the lease term to determine the amount of rent and expense reimbursements received per year. amounts derived in a currency other than the u.s. dollar have been translated using the average rate from the previous twelve months. in our strategic capital segment, we view our partners and investors as our customers. at december 31, 2017, in our private ventures, we partnered with approximately 100 investors, several of which invest in multiple ventures. employees the following table summarizes our employee base at december 31, 2017: regions number of employees u.s. (1) 835 other americas 130 europe 370 asia 230 total 1,565 (1) this includes employees who were employed in the u.s. but also support other regions. we allocate our employees who perform property management functions to our real estate operations segment and strategic capital segment based on the square footage of the respective portfolios. employees who perform only strategic capital functions are allocated directly to that segment. we believe we have good relationships with our employees. prologis employees are not organized under collective bargaining agreements, although some employees in europe are represented by statutory works councils and as such, benefit from applicable labor agreements. code of ethics and business conduct we maintain a code of ethics and business conduct applicable to our board of directors (the board ) and all of our officers and employees, including the principal executive officer, the principal financial officer and the principal accounting officer, and other people performing similar functions. a copy of our code of ethics and business conduct is available on our website, www.prologis.com . in addition to being ac cessible through our website, copies of our code of ethics and business conduct can be obtained, free of charge, upon written request to investor relations, pier 1, bay 1, san francisco, california 94111. any amendments to or waivers of our code 7 of ethics and business conduct that apply to the principal executive officer, the principal financial officer, the principal accounting officer, or other people performing similar functions, and that relate to any matter enumerated in item 406(b) of regulation s-k, will be disclosed on our website. environmental matters we are exposed to various environmental risks that may result in unanticipated losses and affect our operating results and financial condition. either the previous owners or we have conducted environmental reviews on a majority of the properties we have acquired, including land. while some of these assessments have led to further investigation and sampling, none of the environmental assessments has revealed an environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see further discussion in item 1a. risk factors and note 17 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. insurance coverage we carry insurance coverage on our properties. we determine the type of coverage and the policy specifications and limits based on what we deem to be the risks associated with our ownership of properties and our business operations in specific markets. such coverage typically includes property damage and rental loss insurance resulting from such perils as fire, windstorm, flood, earthquake and terrorism; commercial general liability insurance; and environmental insurance. insurance is maintained through a combination of commercial insurance, self-insurance and a wholly-owned captive insurance entity. the costs to insure our properties are primarily covered through reimbursements from our customers. we believe our insurance coverage contains policy specifications and insured limits that are customary for similar properties, business activities and markets and we believe our properties are adequately insured. see further discussion in item 1a. risk factors. item 1a. risk factors our operations and structure involve various risks that could adversely affect our business and financial condition, including but not limited to, our financial position, results of operations, cash flow, ability to make distributions and payments to security holders and the market value of our securities. these risks relate to prologis as well as our investments in consolidated and unconsolidated entities and include among others, (i) general risks; (ii) risks related to our business; (iii) risks related to financing and capital; and (iv) income tax risks. general risks as a global company, we are subject to social, political and economic risks of doing business in many countries. we conduct a significant portion of our business and employ a substantial number of people outside of the u.s. during 2017, we generated approximately $416 million or 15.9% of our revenues from operations outside the u.s. circumstances and developments related to international and u.s. operations that could negatively affect us include, but are not limited to, the following factors: difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations in certain regions, including differing employment practices and labor issues; local businesses and cultural factors that differ from our usual standards and practices; volatility in currencies and currency restrictions, which may prevent the transfer of capital and profits to the u.s.; challenges in establishing effective controls and procedures to regulate operations in different regions and to monitor compliance with applicable regulations, such as the foreign corrupt practices act, the united kingdom ( u.k. ) bribery act and other similar laws; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tax, tariffs and other laws within the countries in which we operate; potentially adverse tax consequences; the responsibility of complying with multiple and potentially conflicting laws, e.g., with respect to corrupt practices, employment and licensing; the impact of regional or country-specific business cycles and economic instability, including instability in, or further withdrawals from, the european union or other international trade alliances or agreements; political instability, uncertainty over property rights, civil unrest, drug trafficking, political activism or the continuation or escalation of terrorist or gang activities; 8 foreign ownership restrictions in operations with the respective countries; and access to capital may be more restricted, or unavailable on favorable terms or at all in certain locations. in addition, we may be impacted by the ability of our non-u.s. subsidiaries to dividend or otherwise transfer cash among our subsidiaries, including transfers of cash to pay interest and principal on our debt, due to currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations and potentially adverse tax consequences, among other factors. disruptions in the global capital and credit markets may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. to the extent there is turmoil in the global financial markets, this turmoil has the potential to adversely affect (i) the value of our properties; (ii) the availability or the terms of financing that we have or may anticipate utilizing; (iii) our ability to make principal and interest payments on, or refinance any outstanding debt when due; and (iv) the ability of our customers to enter into new leasing transactions or satisfy rental payments under existing leases. disruptions in the capital and credit markets may also adversely affect our ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities. our business and operations could suffer in the event of system failures or cyber security attacks. despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal and hosted information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from any number of sources, including energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war, telecommunication failures and cyber security attacks, such as computer viruses or unauthorized access. any system failure or accident that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to our business. we may also incur additional costs to remedy damages caused by such disruptions. any compromise of our security could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, unauthorized access to information of ours and others, significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, loss or misuse of the information and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could harm our business. risks associated with our dependence on key personnel. we depend on the deep industry knowledge and the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. from time to time, our personnel and their roles may change. while we believe that we are able to retain our key talent and find suitable employees to meet our personnel needs, the loss of key personnel, any change in their roles or the limitation of their availability could adversely affect our business. if we are unable to continue to attract and retain our executive officers, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain key employees become more expensive, our performance and competitive position could be materially adversely affected. our business could be adversely impacted if we have deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting. the design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors, misstatements or misrepresentations. while management continually reviews the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, there can be no guarantee that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. deficiencies, including any material weakness, in our internal control over financial reporting that may occur in the future could result in misstatements or restatements of our financial statements or a decline in the price of our securities. the depreciation in the value of the foreign currency in countries where we have a significant investment may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. we pursue growth opportunities in international markets where the u.s. dollar is not the functional currency. at december 31, 2017, approximately $7.4 billion or 25.1% of our total consolidated assets were invested in a currency other than the u.s. dollar, primarily the brazilian real, british pound sterling, canadian dollar, euro and japanese yen. as a result, we are subject to foreign currency risk due to potential fluctuations in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the u.s. dollar. a significant change in the value of the foreign currency of one or more countries where we have a significant investment may have a material adverse effect on our business and, specifically, our u.s. dollar reported financial position and results of operations and debt covenant ratios. although we attempt to mitigate adverse effects by borrowing under debt agreements denominated in foreign currencies and using derivative contracts, there can be no assurance that those attempts to mitigate foreign currency risk will be successful. our hedging of foreign currency and interest rate risk may not effectively limit our exposure to other risks. hedging arrangements involve risks, such as the risk of fluctuation in the relative value of the foreign currency or interest rates and the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements. the funds required to settle such arrangements could be significant depending on the stability and movement of the hedged foreign currency or the size of the underlying financing and the applicable interest rates at the time of the breakage. the failure to hedge effectively against foreign exchange changes or interest rate changes may adversely affect our business. 9 compliance or failure to comply with regulatory requirements could result in substantial costs. we are required to comply with many regulations in different countries, including (but not limited to) the foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k bribery act and similar laws and regulations. our properties are also subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as the americans with disabilities act and state and local fire and life-safety requirements. noncompliance could result in the imposition of governmental fines or the award of damages to private litigants. while we believe that we are currently in material compliance with these regulatory requirements, the requirements may change or new requirements may be imposed that could require significant unanticipated expenditures by us. if we are required to make unanticipated expenditures to comply with these regulations, we may be adversely affected. risks related to our business real estate investments are not as liquid as certain other types of assets, which may reduce economic returns to investors. real estate investments are not as liquid as certain other types of investments and this lack of liquidity may limit our ability to react promptly to changes in economic or other conditions. significant expenditures associated with real estate investments, such as secured mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs, are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from the investments. as a reit, under the internal revenue code, we are only able to hold property for sale in the ordinary course of business through taxable reit subsidiaries in order to not incur punitive taxation on any tax gain from the sale of such property. we may dispose of certain properties that have been held for investment to generate liquidity. if we do not satisfy certain safe harbors or we believe there is too much risk of incurring the punitive tax on any tax gain from the sale, we may not pursue such sales. we may decide to sell properties to certain of our unconsolidated co-investment ventures or third parties to generate proceeds to fund our capital deployment activities. our ability to sell properties on advantageous terms is affected by: (i) competition from other owners of properties that are trying to dispose of their properties; (ii) market conditions, including the capitalization rates applicable to our properties; and (iii) other factors beyond our control. if our competitors sell assets similar to assets we intend to divest in the same markets or at valuations below our valuations for comparable assets, we may be unable to divest our assets at favorable pricing or at all. the unconsolidated co-investment ventures or third parties who might acquire our properties may need to have access to debt and equity capital, in the private and public markets, in order to acquire properties from us. should they have limited or no access to capital on favorable terms, then dispositions could be delayed. if we do not have sufficient cash available to us through our operations, sales or contributions of properties or available credit facilities to continue operating our business as usual, we may need to find alternative ways to increase our liquidity. such alternatives may include, without limitation, divesting ourselves of properties, whether or not they otherwise meet our strategic objectives to keep in the long term, at less than optimal terms, incurring debt, entering into leases with new customers at lower rental rates or less than optimal terms or entering into lease renewals with our existing customers without an increase in rental rates. there can be no assurance, however, that such alternative ways to increase our liquidity will be available to us. additionally, taking such measures to increase our liquidity may adversely affect our business, and in particular, our distributable cash flow and debt covenants. our investments are concentrated in the logistics sector and our business would be adversely affected by an economic downturn in that sector. our investments in real estate assets are concentrated in the logistics sector. this concentration may expose us to the risk of economic downturns in this sector to a greater extent than if our business activities were more diversified. general economic conditions and other events or occurrences that affect areas in which our properties are geographically concentrated, may impact financial results. we are exposed to general economic conditions, local, regional, national and international economic conditions and other events and occurrences that affect the markets in which we own properties. our operating performance is further impacted by the economic conditions of the specific markets in which we have concentrations of properties. at december 31, 2017, 33.7% of our consolidated operating properties or $7.7 billion (based on consolidated gross book value, or investment before depreciation) were located in california, which represented 27.4% of the aggregate square footage of our operating properties and 34.1% of our noi. our revenues from, and the value of, our properties located in california may be affected by local real estate conditions (such as an oversupply of or reduced demand for logistics properties) and the local economic climate. business layoffs, downsizing, industry slowdowns, changing demographics and other factors may adversely impact california's economic climate. because of the number of properties we have located in california, a downturn in california's economy or real estate conditions could adversely affect our business. in addition to california, we also have significant holdings (defined as more than 3% of total consolidated investment before depreciation) in operating properties in certain markets located in atlanta, central and eastern pennsylvania, chicago, dallas/fort worth, new jersey/new york city, seattle and south florida. our operating performance could be adversely affected if conditions become less favorable in any of the markets in which we have a concentration of properties. conditions such as an oversupply of logistics space or a reduction in demand for logistics space, among other factors, may impact operating conditions. any material oversupply of logistics space or material reduction in demand for logistics space could adversely affect our overall business. 10 our owned and managed portfolio, which includes our wholly-owned properties and properties included in our co-investment ventures, has concentrations of properties in the sa me markets mentioned above, as well as in markets in france, germany, japan, mexico, netherlands, poland and the u.k., and are subject to the economic conditions in those markets. a number of our investments, both wholly-owned and owned through co-investment ventures, are located in areas that are known to be subject to earthquake activity. u.s. properties located in active seismic areas include properties in our markets in california and seattle. international properties located in active seismic areas include japan and mexico. we generally carry earthquake insurance on our properties located in areas historically subject to seismic activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles, if we believe it is commercially reasonable. we evaluate our earthquake insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants and in some specific instances have elected to self-insure our earthquake exposure based on this analysis. we have elected not to carry earthquake insurance for our assets in japan based on this analysis. furthermore, a number of our properties are located in areas that are known to be subject to hurricane or flood risk. we carry hurricane and flood hazard insurance on all of our properties located in areas historically subject to such activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles, if we believe it is commercially reasonable. we evaluate our insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants. investments in real estate properties are subject to risks that could adversely affect our business. investments in real estate properties are subject to varying degrees of risk. while we seek to minimize these risks through geographic diversification of our portfolio, market research and our asset management capabilities, these risks cannot be eliminated. factors that may affect real estate values and cash flows include: local conditions, such as oversupply or a reduction in demand; technological changes, such as reconfiguration of supply chains, autonomous vehicles, robotics, 3d printing or other technologies; the attractiveness of our properties to potential customers and competition from other available properties; increasing costs of maintaining, insuring, renovating and making improvements to our properties; our ability to rehabilitate and reposition our properties due to changes in the business and logistics needs of our customers; our ability to control rents and variable operating costs; and governmental regulations and the associated potential liability under, and changes in, environmental, zoning, usage, tax, tariffs and other laws. we may be unable to lease vacant space or renew leases or re-lease space on favorable terms as leases expire. our operating results and distributable cash flow would be adversely affected if a significant number of our customers were unable to meet their lease obligations. we are also subject to the risk that, upon the expiration of leases for space located in our properties, leases may not be renewed by existing customers, the space may not be re-leased to new customers or the terms of renewal or re-leasing (including the cost of required renovations or concessions to customers) may be less favorable to us than current lease terms. our competitors may offer space at rental rates below current market rates or below the rental rates we currently charge our customers, we may lose potential customers, and we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we currently charge to retain customers when our customers' leases expire. in the event of default by a significant number of customers, we may experience delays and incur substantial costs in enforcing our rights as landlord, and we may be unable to re-lease spaces. a customer may experience a downturn in its business, which may cause the loss of the customer or may weaken its financial condition, resulting in the customer's failure to make rental payments when due or requiring a restructuring that might reduce cash flow from the lease. in addition, a customer may seek the protection of bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws, which could result in the rejection and termination of such customer's lease and thereby cause a reduction in our available cash flow. we may acquire properties, which involves risks that could adversely affect our business and financial condition. we have acquired properties and will continue to acquire properties, both through the direct acquisition of real estate and through the acquisition of entities that own the real estate and through additional investments in co-investment ventures that acquire properties. the acquisition of properties involves risks, including the risk that the acquired property will not perform as anticipated and that any actual costs for rehabilitation, repositioning, renovation and improvements identified in the pre-acquisition due diligence process will exceed estimates. when we acquire properties, we may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local economy, forging new business relationships in the area and unfamiliarity with local government and permitting procedures. additionally, there is, and it is expected there will continue to be, significant competition for properties that meet our investment criteria as well as risks associated with obtaining financing for acquisition activities. the acquired properties or entities may be subject to liabilities, which may be without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities. as a result, if a liability were asserted against us based on ownership of any of these entities or properties, then we may have to pay substantial sums to settle it. 11 our real estate development strategies may not be successful. our real estate development strategy is focused on monetizing land in the future through development of logistics facilities to hold for long-term investment, contribution or sale to a co-investment venture or third party, depending on market conditions, our liquidity needs and other factors. we may increase our investment in the development, renovation and redevelopment business and we expect to complete the build-out and leasing of our current development portfolio. we may also develop, renovate and redevelop properties within existing or newly formed co-investment ventures. the real estate development, renovation and redevelopment business includes the following significant risks: we may not be able to obtain financing for development projects on favorable terms or at all; we may explore development opportunities that may be abandoned and the related investment impaired; we may not be able to obtain, or may experience delays in obtaining, all necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other governmental permits and authorizations; we may have construction costs, total investment amounts and our share of remaining funding that exceed our estimates and projects may not be completed, delivered or stabilized as planned due to defects or other issues; we may not be able to attract third-party investment in new development co-investment ventures or sufficient customer demand for our product; we may have properties that perform below anticipated levels, producing cash flow below budgeted amounts; we may seek to sell certain land parcels and not be able to find a third party to acquire such land or the sales price will not allow us to recover our investment, resulting in impairment charges; we may not be able to lease properties we develop on favorable terms or at all; we may not be able to capture the anticipated enhanced value created by our value-added properties on expected timetables or at all; we may experience delays (temporary or permanent) if there is public or government opposition to our activities; and we may have substantial renovation, new development and redevelopment activities, regardless of their ultimate success, that require a significant amount of management's time and attention, diverting their attention from our day-to-day operations. we are subject to risks and liabilities in connection with forming co-investment ventures, investing in new or existing co-investment ventures, attracting third-party investment and investing in and managing properties through co-investment ventures. at december 31, 2017, we had investments in real estate containing approximately 399 million square feet held through co-investment ventures, both public and private. our organizational documents do not limit the amount of available funds that we may invest in these ventures, and we may and currently intend to develop and acquire properties through co-investment ventures and investments in other entities when warranted by the circumstances. however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to form new co-investment ventures, or attract third-party investment or that additional investments in new or existing ventures to develop or acquire properties will be successful. further, there can be no assurance that we are able to realize value from such investments. our co-investment ventures involve certain additional risks that we do not otherwise face, including: our partners may share certain approval rights over major decisions made on behalf of the ventures; if our partners fail to fund their share of any required capital contributions, then we may choose to contribute such capital; our partners might have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals that would affect our ability to operate the property; the venture or other governing agreements often restrict the transfer of an interest in the co-investment venture or may otherwise restrict our ability to sell the interest when we desire or on advantageous terms; 12 our relationships with our partners are generally contractual in nature and may be terminated or dissolved under the terms of the agreements, and in such event, we may not continue to manage or invest in the asset underlying such relationships resulting in reduced fee revenues or causing a need to purchase such interest to continue ownership; and disputes between us and our partners may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and directors from focusing their time and effort on our business and result in subjecting the properties owned by the applicable co-investment venture to additional risk. we generally seek to maintain sufficient influence over our co-investment ventures to permit us to achieve our business objectives; however, we may not be able to continue to do so indefinitely. we have formed publicly traded investment vehicles, such as npr and fibra prologis, for which we serve as sponsor or manager. we have contributed, and may continue to contribute, assets into such vehicles. there is a risk that our managerial relationship may be terminated. we are exposed to various environmental risks, including the potential impacts of future climate change, which may result in unanticipated losses that could affect our business and financial condition. under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner, developer or operator of real estate may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances. the costs of removal or remediation of such substances could be substantial. such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release or presence of such hazardous substances. in addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages based on personal injury, property damage or other costs, including investigation and clean-up costs, resulting from the environmental contamination. environmental laws in some countries, including the u.s., also require that owners or operators of buildings containing asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos, adequately inform or train those who may come into contact with asbestos and undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, in the event that asbestos is disturbed during building renovation or demolition. these laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos. some of our properties are known to contain asbestos-containing building materials. in addition, some of our properties are leased or have been leased, in part, to owners and operators of businesses that use, store or otherwise handle petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, creating a potential for the release of such hazardous or toxic substances. furthermore, certain of our properties are on, adjacent to or near other properties that have contained or currently contain petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, or upon which others have engaged, are engaged or may engage in activities that may release such hazardous or toxic substances. from time to time, we may acquire properties, or interests in properties, with known adverse environmental conditions for which we believe that the environmental liabilities associated with these conditions are quantifiable and that the acquisition will yield a superior risk-adjusted return. in connection with certain divested properties, we have agreed to remain responsible for, and to bear the cost of, remediating or monitoring certain environmental conditions on the properties. we are also exposed to potential physical risks from possible future changes in climate. our logistics facilities may be exposed to rare catastrophic weather events, such as severe storms or floods. if the frequency of extreme weather events increases due to climate change, our exposure to these events could increase. we do not currently consider ourselves to be exposed to regulatory risks related to climate change, as our operations generally do not emit a significant amount of greenhouse gases. however, we may be adversely impacted as a real estate developer in the future by potential impacts to the supply chain or stricter energy efficiency standards for buildings. we cannot give any assurance that other such conditions do not exist or may not arise in the future. the presence of such substances on our real estate properties could adversely affect our ability to lease, develop or sell such properties or to borrow using such properties as collateral. our insurance coverage does not include all potential losses. we and our unconsolidated co-investment ventures carry insurance coverage including property damage and rental loss insurance resulting from certain perils such as fire and additional perils as covered under an extended coverage policy, namely windstorm, flood, earthquake and terrorism; commercial general liability insurance; and environmental insurance, as appropriate for the markets where each of our properties and business operations are located. the insurance coverage contains policy specifications and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties, business activities and markets. we believe our properties and the properties of our co-investment ventures are adequately insured. certain losses, however, including losses from floods, earthquakes, acts of war, acts of terrorism or riots, generally are not insured against or not fully insured against because it is not deemed economically feasible or prudent to do so. if an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs with respect to one or more of our properties, we could experience a significant loss of capital invested and future revenues in these properties and could potentially remain obligated under any recourse debt associated with the property. furthermore, we cannot be sure that the insurance companies will be able to continue to offer products with sufficient coverage at commercially reasonable rates. if we experience a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds insured limits with respect to one or more of our properties or if the insurance companies fail to meet their coverage commitments to us in the event of an insured loss, then we could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties, as well as the anticipated future revenues from those properties and, if there 13 is recourse debt, then we would remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the properties. any such losses or higher insurance costs could adversely affe ct our business. risks related to financing and capital we may be unable to refinance our debt or our cash flow may be insufficient to make required debt payments. we are subject to risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest. there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any maturing indebtedness, that such refinancing would be on terms as favorable as the terms of the maturing indebtedness, or that we will be able to otherwise obtain funds by selling assets or raising equity to make required payments on maturing indebtedness. if we are unable to refinance our indebtedness at maturity or meet our payment obligations, our business and financial condition will be negatively impacted and, if the maturing debt is secured, the lender may foreclose on the property securing such indebtedness. our credit facilities and certain other debt bears interest at variable rates. increases in interest rates would increase our interest expense under these agreements. covenants in our credit agreements could limit our flexibility and breaches of these covenants could adversely affect our financial condition. the terms of our various credit agreements, including our credit facilities, the indentures under which our senior notes are issued and other note agreements, require us to comply with a number of customary financial covenants, such as maintaining debt service coverage, leverage ratios, fixed charge ratios and other operating covenants including maintaining insurance coverage. these covenants may limit our flexibility to run our business, and breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable indebtedness. if we default under the covenant provisions and are unable to cure the default, refinance the indebtedness or meet payment obligations, our business and financial condition generally and, in particular, the amount of our distributable cash flow could be adversely affected. adverse changes in our credit ratings could negatively affect our financing activity. the credit ratings of our senior unsecured notes and preferred stock are based on our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position and other factors employed by the credit rating agencies in their rating analyses of us. our credit ratings can affect the amount of capital we can access, as well as the terms and pricing of any debt we may incur. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings, and in the event our credit ratings are downgraded, we would likely incur higher borrowing costs and may encounter difficulty in obtaining additional financing. also, a downgrade in our credit ratings may trigger additional payments or other negative consequences under our credit facilities and other debt instruments. adverse changes in our credit ratings could negatively impact our business and, in particular, our refinancing and other capital market activities, our ability to manage debt maturities, our future growth and our development and acquisition activity. at december 31, 2017, our credit ratings were a3 from moody's and a- from s&amp;p, both with stable outlook. a securities rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating organization. we depend on external sources of capital. to qualify as a reit, we are required each year to distribute at least 90% of our reit taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends-paid deduction and by excluding any net capital gain) to our stockholders and we may be subject to tax to the extent our taxable income is not fully distributed. historically, we have satisfied these distribution requirements by making cash distributions to our stockholders, but we may choose to satisfy these requirements by making distributions of cash or other property, including, in limited circumstances, our own stock. for distributions with respect to taxable years that end on or before december 31, and in some cases declared as late as december 31, a reit can satisfy up to 90% of the distribution requirements discussed above through the distribution of shares of our stock if certain conditions are met. assuming we continue to satisfy these distribution requirements with cash, we may not be able to fund all future capital needs, including acquisition and development activities, from cash retained from operations and may have to rely on third-party sources of capital. furthermore, to maintain our reit status and not have to pay federal income and excise taxes, we may need to borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the reit distribution requirements even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings. these short-term borrowing needs could result from differences in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for federal income tax purposes, or the effect of nondeductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt or amortization payments. our ability to access debt and equity capital on favorable terms or at all depends on a number of factors, including general market conditions, the market's perception of our growth potential, our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions and the market price of our securities. our stockholders may experience dilution if we issue additional common stock or units in the op. any additional future issuance of common stock or op units will reduce the percentage of our common stock and units owned by investors. in most circumstances, stockholders and unitholders will not be entitled to vote on whether or not we issue additional common stock or units. in addition, depending on the terms and pricing of any additional offering of our common stock or units and the value of the properties, our stockholders and unitholders may experience dilution in both book value and fair value of their common stock or units. 14 income tax risks the failure of prologis, inc. to qualify as a reit would have serious adverse consequences. prologis, inc. elected to be taxed as a reit under sections 856 through 860 of the internal revenue code commencing with the taxable year ended december 31, 1997. we believe prologis, inc. has been organized and operated to qualify as a reit under the internal revenue code and believe that the current organization and method of operation comply with the rules and regulations promulgated under the internal revenue code to enable prologis, inc. to continue to qualify as a reit. however, it is possible that we are organized or have operated in a manner that would not allow prologis, inc. to qualify as a reit, or that our future operations could cause prologis, inc. to fail to qualify. qualification as a reit requires us to satisfy numerous requirements (some annually and others on a quarterly basis) established under highly technical and complex sections of the internal revenue code for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations, and involves the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. for example, to qualify as a reit, prologis, inc. must derive at least 95% of its gross income in any year from qualifying sources. in addition, prologis, inc. must pay dividends to its stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of its taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding capital gains) and must satisfy specified asset tests on a quarterly basis. the provisions of the internal revenue code and applicable treasury regulations regarding qualification as a reit are more complicated for prologis, inc. because we hold assets through the op. if prologis, inc. fails to qualify as a reit in any taxable year, we will be required to pay federal income tax (including, for taxable years prior to 2018, any applicable alternative minimum tax) on taxable income at regular corporate rates. unless we are entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, prologis, inc. would be disqualified from treatment as a reit for the four taxable years following the year in which it lost the qualification. if prologis, inc. lost its reit status, our net earnings would be significantly reduced for each of the years involved. furthermore, we own a direct or indirect interest in certain subsidiary reits that elected to be taxed as reits under sections 856 through 860 of the internal revenue code. provided that each subsidiary reit qualifies as a reit, our interest in such subsidiary reit will be treated as a qualifying real estate asset for purposes of the reit asset tests, and any dividend income or gains derived by us from such subsidiary reit will generally be treated as income that qualifies for purposes of the reit 95% gross income test. to qualify as a reit, the subsidiary reit must independently satisfy all of the reit qualification requirements. if such subsidiary reit were to fail to qualify as a reit, and certain relief provisions did not apply, it would be treated as a regular taxable corporation and its income would be subject to u.s. federal income tax. in addition, a failure of the subsidiary reit to qualify as a reit would have an adverse effect on the ability of prologis, inc. to comply with the reit income and asset tests, and thus its ability to qualify as a reit. certain property transfers may generate prohibited transaction income, resulting in a penalty tax on gain attributable to the transaction. from time to time, we may transfer or otherwise dispose of some of our properties, including by contributing properties to our co-investment ventures. under the internal revenue code, any gain resulting from transfers of properties we hold as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is treated as income from a prohibited transaction subject to a 100% penalty tax. we do not believe that our transfers or disposals of property or our contributions of properties into our co-investment ventures are prohibited transactions. however, whether property is held for investment purposes is a question of fact that depends on all the facts and circumstances surrounding the particular transaction. the internal revenue service may contend that certain transfers or dispositions of properties by us or contributions of properties into our co-investment ventures are prohibited transactions. while we believe that the internal revenue service would not prevail in any such dispute, if the internal revenue service were to argue successfully that a transfer, disposition or contribution of property constituted a prohibited transaction, we would be required to pay a 100% penalty tax on any gain allocable to us from the prohibited transaction. in addition, income from a prohibited transaction might adversely affect our ability to satisfy the income tests for qualification as a reit. legislative or regulatory action could adversely affect us. in recent years, numerous legislative, judicial and administrative changes have been made to the u.s. and foreign income tax laws applicable to investments in real estate, reits, similar entities and investments. additional changes are likely to continue to occur in the future, both in and outside of the u.s. and may impact our taxation or that of our stockholders. new tax legislation was enacted on december 22, 2017 and provides for significant changes to the u.s. federal income tax laws, including the reduction of the corporate tax rate, a reduction or elimination of certain deductions (including new limitations on the deductibility of interest expense) and significant changes in the taxation of earnings from non-u.s. sources. some of these changes could have an adverse impact on us, our business, and the results of our operations. the new rules are complex and lack developed administrative guidance; thus, the impact of certain aspects of these provisions on us is currently unclear. technical corrections or other amendments to the new rules, and administrative guidance interpreting the new rules, may be forthcoming at any time or may be significantly delayed. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to the impact of foreign exchange-related variability and earnings volatility on our foreign investments and interest rate changes. see our risk factors in item 1a. risk factors, specifically: the depreciation in the value of the foreign currency in countries where we have a significant investment may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position and we may be unable to refinance our debt or our cash flow may be insufficient to make required debt payments. see also notes 2 and 16 in the consolidated financial statements inrisk factors in this report. we undertake no duty to update any forward-looking statements appearing i n this report except as may be required by law. part i item 1. business prologis, inc. is a self-administered and self-managed reit and is the sole general partner of prologis, l.p. through which it holds substantially all of its assets. we operate prologis, inc. and prologis, l.p. as one enterprise and, therefore, our discuss ion and analysis refers to prologis, inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, including prologis, l.p., collectively. we invest in real estate through wholly owned subsidiaries and other entities through which we co-invest with partners and investors. we have a significant ownership in the co-investment ventures, which may be consolidated or unconsolidated based on our level of control of the entity. prologis, inc. began operating as a fully integrated real estate company in 1997 and elected to be taxed as a reit under the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended ( internal revenue code ). we believe the current organization and method of operation will enable prologis, inc. to maintain its status as a reit. prologis, l.p. was also formed in 1997. we operate and evaluate our business on an owned and managed ( o&amp;m ) basis, including properties that we wholly-own and properties that are owned by one of our co-investment ventures. we make decisions based on the property operations, regardless of our ownership interest. our investment consists of our wholly-owned properties and our pro rata (or ownership) share of the properties owned in ventures. our corporate headquarters is located at pier 1, bay 1, san francisco, california 94111, and our other principal office locations are in amsterdam, denver, luxembourg, mexico city, shanghai, singapore and tokyo. our internet address is www.prologis.com . all reports required to be filed with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ) are available and can be accessed free of charge through the investor relations section of our website. the common stock of prologis, inc. is listed on the new york stock exchange ( nyse ) under the ticker pld and is a component of the standard &amp; poor's ( s&amp;p ) 500. the company prologis is the global leader in logistics real estate with a focus on key markets in 19 countries on four continents. we own, manage and develop well-located, high-quality logistics facilities. our local teams actively manage our portfolio, which encompasses leasing and property management, capital deployment and opportunistic dispositions allowing us to recycle capital to self-fund our development and acquisition activities. the majority of our properties in the united states ( u.s. ) are wholly owned, while our properties outside the u.s. are generally held in co-investment ventures, to mitigate our exposure to foreign currency movements. our irreplaceable portfolio is focused on the world's most vibrant markets where consumption and supply chain reconfiguration drive logistics demand. in the developed markets of the u.s., europe and japan, key demand drivers include the reconfiguration of supply chains (strongly influenced by e-commerce trends), the demand for sustainable design features and the operational efficiencies that can be realized from high-quality logistics facilities. in emerging markets, such as brazil, china and mexico, growing affluence and the rise of a new consumer class have increased the need for modern distribution networks. our strategy is to own the highest-quality logistics property portfolio in each of our target markets. these markets are characterized by what is most important for the consumption side of a logistics supply chain large population centers with proximity to labor pools, surrounded by highways, rail service or ports. customers turn to us because they know an efficient supply chain will make their businesses succeed, and that a strategic relationship with prologis will create a competitive advantage. 3 on august 22, 2 018, we acquired dct industrial trust inc. at acquisition, dct industrial trust inc. and dct industrial operating partnership lp ( dct, collectively) merged into prologis, inc. and prologis, l.p., respectively, which we refer to as the dct transaction. the dct transaction was valued at $8.5 billion consisting of the issuance of $6.6 billion of equity and the assu mption of $1.9 billion of debt, of which $1.8 billion was subsequently paid down. the dct portfolio of logistics real es tate assets wa highly complementary to our portfolio in terms of product quality, location and growth potential. the acquisition expanded our presence in the high growth u.s. markets of san francisco bay area , seattle , southern ca lifornia and south florid a. as a result of the closely aligned portfolios and similar business strategies, we have integrated the properties while adding minimal property management expenses . our results for 2018 include the dct port folio from the date of acquisition . see note 3 t o the consolidate d financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data for more information. at december 31, 2018, we owned or had investments in properties, on a wholly-owned basis or through ventures, in the following regions (dollars in billions, based on gross book value and total expected investment (as defined below) and square feet in millions): throughout this discussion, we reflect amounts in u.s. dollars, our reporting currency. included in these amounts are consolidated and unconsolidated investments denominated in foreign currencies, principally the british pound sterling, euro and japanese yen that are impacted by fluctuations in exchange rates when translated to u.s. dollars. we mitigate our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations by investing outside the u.s. through co-investment ventures, borrowing in the functional currency of our consolidated subsidiaries and utilizing derivative financial instruments. operating segments our business comprises two operating segments: real estate operations and strategic capital. below is information summarizing consolidated activity within our segments over the last three years (in millions): 4 (1) net operating income ( noi ) is not a u.s. generally accepted accounting principle ( gaap ) financial measure. noi from real estate operations is calculated directly from our consolidated financial tatements as rental revenues , rental recoveries and development management and other revenues less rental expenses and other expenses. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for a reconciliation of noi to operating income, the most directly comparable gaap measure. (2) a developed property moves into the operating portfolio when it meets our definition of stabilization, which is the earlier of one year after completion or reaching 90% occupancy. amounts represent our total expected investment ( tei ), which includes the estimated cost of development or expansion, including land, construction and leasing costs. real estate operations rental. rental operations comprise the largest component of our operating segments and generally contribute 85% to 90% of our consolidated revenues, earnings and funds from operations ( ffo ). ffo is a non-gaap financial measure. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for more information. we collect rent from our customers through long-term operating leases, including reimbursements for the majority of our property operating costs. we expect to generate long-term internal growth by increasing rents, maintaining high occupancy rates and controlling expenses. the primary driver of our revenue growth will be rolling in-place leases to current market rents coupled with increasing market rents. we believe our active portfolio management, combined with the skills of our property, leasing, maintenance, capital, energy, sustainability and risk management teams, will allow us to maximize rental revenues across our portfolio. a significant amount of our rental revenues, noi and cash flows are generated in the u.s. development. we develop properties to meet our customers' needs, deepen our market presence and refresh our portfolio quality. we believe we have a competitive advantage due to (i) the strategic locations of our land bank; (ii) the development expertise of our local teams; and (iii) the depth of our customer relationships. successful development and redevelopment efforts provide significant earnings growth as projects lease up and generate income and increase the net asset value of our real estate operations segment. based on our current estimates, our consolidated land bank, excluding land we have under option contracts, has the potential to support the development of $7.7 billion of tei of new logistics space. generally, we develop properties in the u.s. for long-term hold and outside the u.s. for contribution to our unconsolidated co-investment ventures. strategic capital real estate is a capital-intensive business that requires new capital to grow. our strategic capital business gives us access to third-party capital, both private and public, allowing us to diversify our sources of capital and providing us with a broad range of options to fund our growth, while reducing our exposure to foreign currency movements for investments outside of the u.s. we partner with some of the world's largest institutional investors to grow our business and provide incremental revenues, with a focus on long-term and open-ended ventures. we also access alternative sources of equity through two publicly traded vehicles: nippon prologis reit, inc. in japan and fibra prologis in mexico. we align our interests with those of our partners by holding significant ownership interests in all of our unconsolidated co-investment ventures (ranging from 15% to 50%). this segment produces stable, long-term cash flows and generally contributes 10% to 15% of our consolidated revenues, earnings and ffo. we generate strategic capital revenues or fees from our unconsolidated co-investment ventures, principally through asset and property management services. substantially all of these revenues and fees are earned from long-term and open-ended ventures. we earn additional revenues by providing leasing, acquisition, construction, development, financing, legal and disposition services. in certain ventures, we also have the ability to earn revenues through incentive fees ( promotes or promote revenues ) periodically during the life of a venture or upon liquidation. we plan to profitably grow this business by increasing our assets under management in existing or new ventures. most of the strategic capital revenues are generated outside the u.s. noi in this segment is calculated directly from our consolidated financial statements as strategic capital revenues less strategic capital expenses and excludes property-related noi. future growth we believe the quality and scale of our global portfolio, the expertise of our team, the depth of our customer relationships and the strength of our balance sheet give us unique competitive advantages to grow revenues, noi, earnings, ffo and cash flows. 5 rent growth. we expect market rents to continue to grow over the next few years, driven by demand for the location and quality of our properties. due to strong market rent growth over the last several years, our in-place leases have considerable upside potential. we estimate that our leases are more than 15% below current market rent on the basis of our weighted average ownership at december 31, 2018. therefore, even if market rents remain flat, a lease renewal will translate into increased future rental income, on a consolidated basis or through the earnings we recognize from our unconsolidated co-investment ventures based on our ownership. we have experienced positive rent change on rollover (comparing the net effective rent of the new lease to the prior lease for the same space) every quarter since 2013. we expect this trend to continue for several more years due to our current in-place rents being below market as well as increasing market rents. value creation from development. a successful development and redevelopment program involves maintaining control of well-located and entitled land. we believe the carrying value of our land bank is below its current fair value. due to the strategic nature of our land bank and development expertise of our teams, we expect to realize future value creation as we build out the land bank. we measure the estimated development value as the margin above our anticipated cost to develop. we calculate the margin using estimated yield and capitalization rates from our underwriting models. as properties under development stabilize, we expect to realize the value creation principally through contributions to the unconsolidated co-investment ventures and increases in the noi of our operating portfolio. economies of scale from growth. in 2018, we grew our consolidated real estate assets by 67 million square feet (or approximately 20%), primarily through the dct transaction, while lowering our general and administrative ( g&amp;a ) expenses as a percentage of our average consolidated real estate investment. we believe we can continue to grow noi and strategic capital revenues organically and through accretive acquisition and development, while strengthening our balance sheet and minimizing g&amp;a expense growth. competition real estate ownership is generally fragmented, and we therefore face competition from many owners and operators. competitively priced logistics space could impact our occupancy rates and have an adverse effect on how much rent we can charge, which in turn could affect our operating results. we may face competition regarding our capital deployment activities, including local, regional and national operators or developers. we also face competition from investment managers for institutional capital within our strategic capital business. despite the competition we may face, our strategic focus over the years has given us distinct competitive advantages. these competitive advantages encompass the following: a portfolio of properties strategically located in markets characterized by large population densities and growing consumption, typically near large labor pools and extensive transportation infrastructure ; the development of logistics facilities with sustainable design features that will continue to meet customer needs for high-quality buildings that can enable them to run their operations efficiently; established relationships with customers served by our experienced and responsive local and regional teams; the ability to leverage our organizational scale and structure to provide a single point of contact for our focus customers through our in-house global customer solutions team; an investment across the portfolio in environmental stewardship, social responsibility and governance ( esg ) practices that enhance asset value while improving sustainability performance; proven property management and leasing expertise; relationships and track record with current and prospective investors in our strategic capital business; a strategically located land bank; local teams with development expertise; and a strong balance sheet and credit ratings, coupled with significant liquidity. customers our broad customer base represents a spectrum of international, national, regional and local logistics users. at december 31, 2018, in our real estate operations segment representing our consolidated properties, we had more than 3,000 customers occupying 356 million square feet of logistics operating properties. 6 the following table details our top 25 customers for our consolidated real estate properties at december 31, 2018 (square feet in millions): top customers % of ner (1) total occupied square feet 1. amazon 5.3 16 2. fedex 1.9 4 3. home depot 1.8 6 4. ups 1.4 4 5. wal-mart 0.9 3 6. geodis 0.9 3 7. xpo logistics 0.8 3 8. nfi 0.8 2 9. dhl 0.7 2 10. u.s. government 0.6 1 top 10 customers 15.1 44 11. pepsico 0.6 3 12. office depot 0.6 2 13. kimberly-clark 0.6 3 14. ingram micro 0.5 2 15. dsv air and sea 0.5 2 16. apl logistics 0.5 2 17. kuehne + nagel 0.4 1 18. georgia-pacific 0.4 1 19. kellogg's 0.3 2 20. c&amp;s wholesale grocers 0.3 1 21. international paper 0.3 2 22. penske 0.3 1 23. essendant 0.3 2 24. best buy 0.3 1 25. ford motor 0.3 1 top 25 customers 21.3 70 (1) net effective rent ( ner ) is calculated using the estimated total cash to be received over the term of the lease (including base rent and expense reimbursements) divided by the lease term to determine the amount of rent and expense reimbursements received per year. amounts derived in a currency other than the u.s. dollar have been translated using the average rate from the previous twelve months. in our strategic capital segment, we view our partners and investors as our customers. at december 31, 2018, in our co-investment ventures, we partnered with approximately 120 investors, several of which invest in multiple ventures. employees the following table summarizes our total number of employees at december 31, 2018: regions u.s. (1) 878 other americas 136 europe 375 asia 228 total 1,617 (1) this includes employees who were based in the u.s. but also support other regions. we allocate the employee costs to provide property management and leasing functions to our real estate operations and strategic capital segments based on the square footage of the respective portfolios. the employee costs to perform only strategic capital functions are allocated directly to that segment. we believe we have good relationships with our employees. prologis employees are not organized under collective bargaining agreements, other than in brazil, although some employees in europe are represented by statutory works councils and as such, benefit from applicable labor agreements. code of ethics and business conduct we maintain a code of ethics and business conduct applicable to our board of directors (the board ) and all of our officers and employees, including the principal executive officer, the principal financial officer and the principal accounting officer, and other people 7 performing similar functions. a copy of our code of ethics and business conduct is available on our website, www.prologis.com . in addition to being accessible through our website, copies of our code of ethics and business conduct can be obtai ned, free of charge, upon written request to investor relations, pier 1, bay 1, san francisco, california 94111. any amendments to or waivers of our code of ethics and business conduct that apply to the principal executive officer, the principal financial officer, the principal accounting officer, or other people performing similar functions, and that relate to any matter enumerated in item 406(b) of regulation s-k, will be disclosed on our website. environmental stewardship, social responsibility and governance the principles of esg are a natural fit in our business strategy. esg creates value for our company by strengthening our relationships with our customers, investors, employees and the communities in which we do business delivering a strategic business advantage while positively impacting the environment. we invest in sustainable design features and practices that result in cost-savings and operational efficiency for our customers and reduce energy and water consumption, as well as decrease greenhouse gas emissions across our portfolio and corporate operations. we are committed to social responsibility and strengthening relationships important to our business through customer partnerships, investor outreach, community involvement, labor solutions and inclusion and diversity initiatives, as well as a focus on our and our customers' employees through health and wellness programs and building design. through our community workforce initiative, for example, we partner with local community organizations to provide logistics training and help our customers with their labor pain points, while benefitting local economies and providing new career opportunities. our strong governance and oversight ensures the resilience of our business, creating a culture of uncompromising integrity through our board independence and diversity, open communication with our stockholders and a risk management framework that supports our investment and process decisions. our approach is reinforced by our code of ethics and business conduct, as described above. environmental matters we are exposed to various environmental risks that may result in unanticipated losses and affect our operating results and financial condition. either the previous owners or we have conducted environmental reviews on a majority of the properties we have acquired, including land. while some of these assessments have led to further investigation and sampling, none of the environmental assessments have revealed an environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see further discussion in item 1a. risk factors and note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. insurance coverage we carry insurance coverage on our properties. we determine the type of coverage and the policy specifications and limits based on what we deem to be the risks associated with our ownership of properties and our business operations in specific markets. such coverage typically includes property damage and rental loss insurance resulting from such perils as fire, windstorm, flood, earthquake and terrorism; commercial general liability insurance; and environmental insurance. insurance is maintained through a combination of commercial insurance, self-insurance and a wholly-owned captive insurance entity. the costs to insure our properties are primarily covered through reimbursements from our customers. we believe our insurance coverage contains policy specifications and insured limits that are customary for similar properties, business activities and markets and we believe our properties are adequately insured. see further discussion in item 1a. risk factors. item 1a. risk factors our operations and structure involve various risks that could adversely affect our business and financial condition, including but not limited to, our financial position, results of operations, cash flow, ability to make distributions and payments to security holders and the market value of our securities. these risks relate to prologis as well as our investments in consolidated and unconsolidated entities and include among others, (i) general risks; (ii) risks related to our business; (iii) risks related to financing and capital; and (iv) income tax risks. general risks as a global company, we are subject to social, political and economic risks of doing business in many countries. we conduct a significant portion of our business and employ a substantial number of people outside of the u.s. during 2018, we generated approximately $557 million or 19.8% of our revenues from operations outside the u.s. circumstances and developments related to international operations that could negatively affect us include, but are not limited to, the following factors: difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations in certain regions, including differing employment practices and labor issues; local businesses and cultural factors that differ from our usual standards and practices; volatility in currencies and currency restrictions, which may prevent the transfer of capital and profits to the u.s.; 8 challenges in establishing effective controls and procedures to regulate operations in different reg ions and to monitor compliance with applicable regulations, such as the foreign corrupt practices act, the united kingdom ( u.k. ) bribery act and other similar laws; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, taxes, tariffs, trade wars and laws within the countries in which we operate; potentially adverse tax consequences; the responsibility of complying with multiple and potentially conflicting laws, e.g., with respect to corrupt practices, employment and licensing; the impact of regional or country-specific business cycles and economic instability, including government shutdowns, uncertainty in the u.k., or further withdrawals from, the european union or other international trade alliances or agreements; political instability, uncertainty over property rights, civil unrest, drug trafficking, political activism or the continuation or escalation of terrorist or gang activities; foreign ownership restrictions in operations with the respective countries; and access to capital may be more restricted, or unavailable on favorable terms or at all in certain locations. in addition, we may be impacted by the ability of our non-u.s. subsidiaries to dividend or otherwise transfer cash among our subsidiaries due to currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations and potentially adverse tax consequences, among other factors. disruptions in the global capital and credit markets may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. to the extent there is turmoil in the global financial markets, this turmoil has the potential to adversely affect (i) the value of our properties; (ii) the availability or the terms of financing that we have or may anticipate utilizing; (iii) our ability to make principal and interest payments on, or refinance any outstanding debt when due; and (iv) the ability of our customers to enter into new leasing transactions or satisfy rental payments under existing leases. disruptions in the capital and credit markets may also adversely affect our ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities. our business and operations could suffer in the event of system failures or cyber security attacks. despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal and hosted information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from any number of sources, including energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war, telecommunication failures and cyber security attacks, such as computer viruses or unauthorized access. any system failure or accident that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to our business. we may also incur additional costs to remedy damages caused by such disruptions. any compromise of our security could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, unauthorized access to information of ours and others, significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, loss or misuse of the information and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could harm our business. risks associated with our dependence on key personnel. we depend on the deep industry knowledge and the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. from time to time, our personnel and their roles may change. while we believe that we are able to retain our key talent and find suitable employees to meet our personnel needs, the loss of key personnel, any change in their roles or the limitation of their availability could adversely affect our business. if we are unable to continue to attract and retain our executive officers, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain key employees become more expensive, our performance and competitive position could be materially adversely affected. our business could be adversely impacted if we have deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting. the design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors, misstatements or misrepresentations. while management continually reviews the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, there can be no guarantee that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. deficiencies, including any material weakness, in our internal control over financial reporting that may occur in the future could result in misstatements or restatements of our financial statements or a decline in the price of our securities. the depreciation in the value of the foreign currency in countries where we have a significant investment may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. we hold significant real estate investments in international markets where the u.s. dollar is not the functional currency. at december 31, 2018, approximately $7.3 billion or 19.1% of our total consolidated assets were invested in a currency other than the u.s. dollar, principally the british pound sterling, euro and japanese yen. for the year ended december 31, 2018, $509 million or 18.2% of our total 9 consolidated revenue was denominated in foreign currencies. as a result, we are subject to foreign currency risk due to potential fluctuations in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the u.s. dollar. a signi ficant change in the value of the foreign currency of one or more countries where we have a significant investment may have a material adverse effect on our business and, specifically, our u.s. dollar reported financial position and results of operations. we attempt to mitigate our risk by borrowing in the currencies in which we have significant investments thereby providing a natural hedge. we may also enter into derivative financial instruments that we designate as net investment hedges, as these amounts offset the translation adjustments on the underlying net assets of our foreign investments. we enter into other foreign currency contracts, such as forwards, to reduce fluctuations in foreign currency cash flow associ ated with the translation of future earnings of our international subsidiaries. at december 31, 2018, after consideration of our derivative and nonderivative financial instruments, we had minimal net equity denominated in a currency other than the u.s. dollar . although we attempt to mitigate the potential adverse effects of changes in foreign currency rates there can be no assurance that those attempts will be successful. our hedging of foreign currency and interest rate risk may not effectively limit our exposure to other risks. hedging arrangements involve risks, such as the risk of fluctuation in the relative value of the foreign currency or interest rates and the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements. the funds required to settle such arrangements could be significant depending on the stability and movement of the hedged foreign currency or the size of the underlying financing and the applicable interest rates at the time of the breakage. the failure to hedge effectively against foreign exchange changes or interest rate changes may adversely affect our business. compliance or failure to comply with regulatory requirements could result in substantial costs. we are required to comply with many regulations in different countries, including (but not limited to) the foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and similar laws and regulations. our properties are also subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as the americans with disabilities act and state and local fire and life-safety requirements. noncompliance could result in the imposition of governmental fines or the award of damages to private litigants. while we believe that we are currently in material compliance with these regulatory requirements, the requirements may change or new requirements may be imposed that could require significant unanticipated expenditures by us. risks related to our business real estate investments are not as liquid as certain other types of assets, which may reduce economic returns to investors. real estate investments are not as liquid as certain other types of investments and this lack of liquidity may limit our ability to react promptly to changes in economic or other conditions. significant expenditures associated with real estate investments, such as secured mortgage debt payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs, are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from the investments. as a reit, under the internal revenue code, we are only able to hold property for sale in the ordinary course of business through taxable reit subsidiaries in order to not incur punitive taxation on any tax gain from the sale of such property. we may dispose of certain properties that have been held for investment to generate liquidity. if we do not satisfy certain safe harbors or we believe there is too much risk of incurring the punitive tax on any tax gain from the sale, we may not pursue such sales. we may decide to sell properties to certain of our unconsolidated co-investment ventures or third parties to generate proceeds to fund our capital deployment activities. our ability to sell properties on advantageous terms is affected by: (i) competition from other owners of properties that are trying to dispose of their properties; (ii) market conditions, including the capitalization rates applicable to our properties; and (iii) other factors beyond our control. if our competitors sell assets similar to assets we intend to divest in the same markets or at valuations below our valuations for comparable assets, we may be unable to divest our assets at favorable pricing or at all. the unconsolidated co-investment ventures or third parties who might acquire our properties may need to have access to debt and equity capital, in the private and public markets, in order to acquire properties from us. should they have limited or no access to capital on favorable terms, then dispositions could be delayed. if we do not have sufficient cash available to us through our operations, sales or contributions of properties or available credit facilities to continue operating our business as usual, we may need to find alternative ways to increase our liquidity. such alternatives may include, without limitation, divesting properties, whether or not they otherwise meet our strategic objectives to keep in the long term, at less than optimal terms, incurring debt, entering into leases with new customers at lower rental rates or less than optimal terms or entering into lease renewals with our existing customers without an increase in rental rates. there can be no assurance, however, that such alternative ways to increase our liquidity will be available to us. additionally, taking such measures to increase our liquidity may adversely affect our business, and in particular, our distributable cash flow and debt covenants. our investments are concentrated in the logistics sector and our business would be adversely affected by an economic downturn in that sector. our investments in real estate assets are concentrated in the logistics sector. this concentration may expose us to the risk of economic downturns in this sector to a greater extent than if our business activities were more diversified. 10 general economic conditions and o ther events or occurrences that affect areas in which our properties are geographically concentrated, may impact financial results. we are exposed to general economic conditions, local, regional, national and international economic conditions and other events and occurrences that affect the markets in which we own properties. our operating performance is further impacted by the economic conditions of the specific markets in which we have concentrations of properties. at december 31, 2018, 34.7% of our consolidated operating properties or $10.7 billion (based on consolidated gross book value, or investment before depreciation) were located in california (central valley, san francisco bay area and southern california markets), which represented 28.0% of the aggregate square footage of our operating properties and 32.5% of our noi. our revenues from, and the value of, our properties located in california may be affected by local real estate conditions (such as an oversupply of or reduced demand for logistics properties) and the local economic climate. business layoffs, downsizing, industry slowdowns, changing demographics and other factors may adversely impact california's economic climate. because of the investment we have located in california, a downturn in california's economy or real estate conditions could adversely affect our business. in addition to california, we also have significant holdings (defined as more than 3% of total consolidated investment before depreciation) in operating properties in certain markets located in atlanta, central and eastern pennsylvania, chicago, dallas/fort worth, houston, new jersey/new york city, seattle and south florida. of these markets, no single market contributed more than 10% of our total consolidated investment before depreciation. our operating performance could be adversely affected if conditions become less favorable in any of the markets in which we have a concentration of properties. conditions such as an oversupply of logistics space or a reduction in demand for logistics space, among other factors, may impact operating conditions. any material oversupply of logistics space or material reduction in demand for logistics space could adversely affect our overall business. our o&amp;m portfolio, which includes our wholly-owned properties and properties included in our co-investment ventures, has concentrations of properties in the same markets mentioned above, as well as in markets in france, japan, mexico and the u.k., and are subject to the economic conditions in those markets. a number of our investments, both wholly-owned and owned through co-investment ventures, are located in areas that are known to be subject to earthquake activity. u.s. properties located in active seismic areas include properties in our markets in california and seattle. international properties located in active seismic areas include japan and mexico. we generally carry earthquake insurance on our properties located in areas historically subject to seismic activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles, if we believe it is commercially reasonable. we evaluate our earthquake insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants and in some specific instances have elected to self-insure our earthquake exposure based on this analysis. we have elected not to carry earthquake insurance for our assets in japan based on this analysis. furthermore, a number of our properties are located in areas that are known to be subject to hurricane or flood risk. we carry hurricane and flood hazard insurance on all of our properties located in areas historically subject to such activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles, if we believe it is commercially reasonable. we evaluate our insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants. investments in real estate properties are subject to risks that could adversely affect our business. investments in real estate properties are subject to varying degrees of risk. while we seek to minimize these risks through geographic diversification of our portfolio, market research and our asset management capabilities, these risks cannot be eliminated. factors that may affect real estate values and cash flows include: local conditions, such as oversupply or a reduction in demand; technological changes, such as reconfiguration of supply chains, autonomous vehicles, robotics, 3d printing or other technologies; the attractiveness of our properties to potential customers and competition from other available properties; increasing costs of maintaining, insuring, renovating and making improvements to our properties; our ability to rehabilitate and reposition our properties due to changes in the business and logistics needs of our customers; our ability to control rents and variable operating costs; and governmental regulations and the associated potential liability under, and changes in, environmental, zoning, usage, tax, tariffs and other laws. our customers may be unable to meet their lease obligations or we may be unable to lease vacant space or renew leases or re-lease space on favorable terms as leases expire. our operating results and distributable cash flow would be adversely affected if a significant number of our customers were unable to meet their lease obligations. at december 31, 2018, our top 10 customers totaled 15.1% of our ner. in the event of default by a significant number of customers, we may experience delays and incur substantial costs in enforcing our rights as landlord, and we may 11 be unable to re-lease spaces. a customer may experience a downturn in its business, which m ay cause the loss of the customer or may weaken its financial condition, resulting in the customer's failure to make rental payments when due or requiring a restructuring that might reduce cash flow from the lease. in addition, a customer may seek the prot ection of bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws, which could result in the rejection and termination of such customer's lease and thereby cause a reduction in our available cash flow. we are also subject to the risk that, upon the expiration of leases they may not be renewed by existing customers, the space may not be re-leased to new customers or the terms of renewal or re-leasing (including the cost of required renovations or concessions to customers) may be less favorable to us than current lease terms. our competitors may offer space at rental rates below current market rates or below the rental rates we currently charge our customers, we may lose potential customers, and we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we currently charge to retain customers when leases expire. we may acquire properties, which involves risks that could adversely affect our business and financial condition. we have acquired properties and will continue to acquire properties, both through the direct acquisition of real estate and through the acquisition of entities that own the real estate and through additional investments in co-investment ventures that acquire properties. the acquisition of properties involves risks, including the risk that the acquired property will not perform as anticipated and that any actual costs for rehabilitation, repositioning, renovation and improvements identified in the pre-acquisition due diligence process will exceed estimates. when we acquire properties, we may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local economy, forging new business relationships in the area and unfamiliarity with local government and permitting procedures. additionally, there is, and it is expected there will continue to be, significant competition for properties that meet our investment criteria as well as risks associated with obtaining financing for acquisition activities. the acquired properties or entities may be subject to liabilities, which may be without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities. as a result, if a liability were asserted against us based on ownership of any of these entities or properties, then we may have to pay substantial sums to settle it. our real estate development strategies may not be successful. our real estate development strategy is focused on monetizing land in the future through development of logistics facilities to hold for long-term investment, contribution or sale to a co-investment venture or third party, depending on market conditions, our liquidity needs and other factors. we may increase our investment in the development, renovation and redevelopment business and we expect to complete the build-out and leasing of our current development portfolio. we may also develop, renovate and redevelop properties within existing or newly formed co-investment ventures. the real estate development, renovation and redevelopment business includes the following significant risks: we may not be able to obtain financing for development projects on favorable terms or at all; we may explore development opportunities that may be abandoned and the related investment impaired; we may not be able to obtain, or may experience delays in obtaining, all necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other governmental permits and authorizations; we may have construction costs that exceed our estimates and projects may not be completed, delivered or stabilized as planned due to defects or other issues; we may not be able to attract third-party investment in new development co-investment ventures or sufficient customer demand for our product; we may have properties that perform below anticipated levels, producing cash flow below budgeted amounts; we may seek to sell certain land parcels and not be able to find a third party to acquire such land or the sales price will not allow us to recover our investment, resulting in impairment charges; we may not be able to lease properties we develop on favorable terms or at all; we may not be able to capture the anticipated enhanced value created by our value-added properties on expected timetables or at all; we may experience delays (temporary or permanent) if there is public or government opposition to our activities; and we may have substantial renovation, new development and redevelopment activities, regardless of their ultimate success, that require a significant amount of management's time and attention, diverting their attention from our day-to-day operations. we are subject to risks and liabilities in connection with forming co-investment ventures, investing in new or existing co-investment ventures, attracting third-party investment and managing properties through co-investment ventures. at december 31, 2018, we had investments in real estate of approximately 406 million square feet held through co-investment ventures, both public and private. our organizational documents do not limit the amount of available funds that we may invest in these 12 ventures, and we may and currently intend to develop and acquire properties through co-investment ventures and investments in other entities when warranted by the circumstances. however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to form new co-inve stment ventures, or attract third-party investment or that additional investments in new or existing ventures to develop or acquire properties will be successful. further, there can be no assurance that we are able to realize value from such investments. our co-investment ventures involve certain additional risks that we do not otherwise face, including: our partners may share certain approval rights over major decisions made on behalf of the ventures; if our partners fail to fund their share of any required capital contributions, then we may choose to contribute such capital; our partners might have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals that would affect our ability to operate the property; the venture or other governing agreements often restrict the transfer of an interest in the co-investment venture or may otherwise restrict our ability to sell the interest when we desire or on advantageous terms; our relationships with our partners are generally contractual in nature and may be terminated or dissolved under the terms of the agreements, and in such event, we may not continue to manage or invest in the assets underlying such relationships resulting in reduced fee revenues or obtaining direct ownership of the properties through acquisition; and disputes between us and our partners may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and directors from focusing their time and effort on our business and result in subjecting the properties owned by the applicable co-investment venture to additional risk. we generally seek to maintain sufficient influence over our co-investment ventures to permit us to achieve our business objectives; however, we may not be able to continue to do so indefinitely. we have formed publicly traded investment vehicles, such as npr and fibra prologis, for which we serve as sponsor or manager. we have contributed, and may continue to contribute, assets into such vehicles. there is a risk that our managerial relationship may be terminated. we are exposed to various environmental risks, which may result in unanticipated losses that could affect our business and financial condition. under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner, developer or operator of real estate may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances. the costs of removal or remediation of such substances could be substantial. such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release or presence of such hazardous substances. in addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages based on personal injury, property damage or other costs, including investigation and clean-up costs, resulting from the environmental contamination. environmental laws in some countries, including the u.s., also require that owners or operators of buildings containing asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos, adequately inform or train those who may come into contact with asbestos and undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, in the event that asbestos is disturbed during building renovation or demolition. these laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos. some of our properties are known to contain asbestos-containing building materials. in addition, some of our properties are leased or have been leased, in part, to owners and operators of businesses that use, store or otherwise handle petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, creating a potential for the release of such hazardous or toxic substances. furthermore, certain of our properties are on, adjacent to or near other properties that have contained or currently contain petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, or upon which others have engaged, are engaged or may engage in activities that may release such hazardous or toxic substances. from time to time, we may acquire properties, or interests in properties, with known adverse environmental conditions for which we believe that the environmental liabilities associated with these conditions are quantifiable and that the acquisition will yield a superior risk-adjusted return. in connection with certain divested properties, we have agreed to remain responsible for, and to bear the cost of, remediating or monitoring certain environmental conditions on the properties. we are exposed to the potential impacts of future climate change, which may result in unanticipated losses that could affect our business and financial condition. we are also exposed to potential physical risks from possible future changes in climate. our logistics facilities may be exposed to rare catastrophic weather events, such as severe storms or floods. if the frequency of extreme weather events increases, our exposure to these events could increase. we do not currently consider ourselves to be exposed to regulatory risks related to climate change, as the operation of our buildings typically does not generate a significant amount of greenhouse gas emissions. however, we may be adversely impacted as a real estate developer in the future by potential impacts to the supply chain or stricter energy efficiency standards or greenhouse gas regulations for the commercial building sectors. we cannot give any assurance that other such conditions do not exist or may not arise in the future. the potential impacts of future climate change on our real estate properties could adversely affect our ability to lease, develop or sell such properties or to borrow using such properties as collateral. 13 our insurance coverage does not include all potential losses. we and our unconsolidated co-investment ventures carry insurance coverage including property damage and rental loss insurance resulting from certain perils such as fire and additional perils as covered under an extended coverage policy, namely windstorm, flood, earthquake and terrorism; commercial general liability insurance; and environmental insurance, as appropriate for the markets where each of our properties and business operations are located. the insurance coverage contains policy specifications and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties, business activities and markets. we believe our properties and the properties of our co-investment ventures are adequately insured. certain losses, however, including losses from floods, earthquakes, acts of war, acts of terrorism or riots, generally are not insured against or not fully insured against because it is not deemed economically feasible or prudent to do so. if an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs with respect to one or more of our properties, we could experience a significant loss of capital invested and future revenues in these properties and could potentially remain obligated under any recourse debt associated with the property. furthermore, we cannot be sure that the insurance companies will be able to continue to offer products with sufficient coverage at commercially reasonable rates. if we experience a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds insured limits with respect to one or more of our properties or if the insurance companies fail to meet their coverage commitments to us in the event of an insured loss, then we could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties, as well as the anticipated future revenues from those properties and, if there is recourse debt, then we would remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the properties. any such losses or higher insurance costs could adversely affect our business. risks related to financing and capital we may be unable to refinance our debt or our cash flow may be insufficient to make required debt payments. we are subject to risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest. there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any maturing indebtedness, that such refinancing would be on terms as favorable as the terms of the maturing indebtedness, or that we will be able to otherwise obtain funds by selling assets or raising equity to make required payments on maturing indebtedness. if we are unable to refinance our indebtedness at maturity or meet our payment obligations, our business and financial condition will be negatively impacted and, if the maturing debt is secured, the lender may foreclose on the property securing such indebtedness. our credit facilities and certain other debt bears interest at variable rates. increases in interest rates would increase our interest expense under these agreements. covenants in our credit agreements could limit our flexibility and breaches of these covenants could adversely affect our financial condition. the terms of our various credit agreements, including our credit facilities, the indentures under which our senior notes and term loans are issued and other note agreements, require us to comply with a number of customary financial covenants, such as maintaining debt service coverage, leverage ratios, fixed charge ratios and other operating covenants including maintaining insurance coverage. these covenants may limit our flexibility to run our business, and breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable indebtedness. if we default under the covenant provisions and are unable to cure the default, refinance the indebtedness or meet payment obligations, our business and financial condition generally and, in particular, the amount of our distributable cash flow could be adversely affected. adverse changes in our credit ratings could negatively affect our financing activity. the credit ratings of our senior notes and preferred stock are based on our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position and other factors employed by the credit rating agencies in their rating analyses of us. our credit ratings can affect the amount of capital we can access, as well as the terms and pricing of any debt we may incur. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings, and in the event our credit ratings are downgraded, we would likely incur higher borrowing costs and may encounter difficulty in obtaining additional financing. also, a downgrade in our credit ratings may trigger additional payments or other negative consequences under our credit facilities and other debt instruments. adverse changes in our credit ratings could negatively impact our business and, in particular, our refinancing and other capital market activities, our ability to manage debt maturities, our future growth and our development and acquisition activity. at december 31, 2018, our credit ratings were a3 from moody's and a- from s&amp;p, both with stable outlook. a securities rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating organization. in order to meet reit distribution requirements we may need access to external sources of capital. to qualify as a reit, we are required each year to distribute at least 90% of our reit taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends-paid deduction and by excluding any net capital gain) to our stockholders and we may be subject to tax to the extent our taxable income is not fully distributed. historically, we have satisfied these distribution requirements by making cash distributions to our stockholders, however, we may elect to pay a portion of the distribution in shares of our stock. assuming we continue to satisfy these distribution requirements with cash, we may not be able to fund all future capital needs, including acquisition and development activities, from cash retained from operations and may have to rely on third-party sources of capital. furthermore, to maintain our reit status and not have to pay federal income and excise taxes, we may need to borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the reit distribution requirements even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings. these short-term 14 borrowing needs could result from differences in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion o f income for federal income tax purposes, or the effect of nondeductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt or amortization payments. our ability to access debt and equity capital on favorable terms or at all depends on a numbe r of factors, including general market conditions, the market's perception of our growth potential, our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions and the market price of our securities. our stockholders may experience dilution if we issue additional common stock or units in the op. any additional future issuance of common stock or op units will reduce the percentage of our common stock and units owned by investors. in most circumstances, stockholders and unitholders will not be entitled to vote on whether or not we issue additional common stock or units. in addition, depending on the terms and pricing of any additional offering of our common stock or units and the value of the properties, our stockholders and unitholders may experience dilution in both book value and fair value of their common stock or units. income tax risks the failure of prologis, inc. to qualify as a reit would have serious adverse consequences. prologis, inc. elected to be taxed as a reit under sections 856 through 860 of the internal revenue code commencing with the taxable year ended december 31, 1997. we believe prologis, inc. has been organized and operated to qualify as a reit under the internal revenue code and believe that the current organization and method of operation comply with the rules and regulations promulgated under the internal revenue code to enable prologis, inc. to continue to qualify as a reit. however, it is possible that we are organized or have operated in a manner that would not allow prologis, inc. to qualify as a reit, or that our future operations could cause prologis, inc. to fail to qualify. qualification as a reit requires us to satisfy numerous requirements (some annually and others on a quarterly basis) established under highly technical and complex sections of the internal revenue code for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations and involves the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. for example, to qualify as a reit, prologis, inc. must derive at least 95% of its gross income in any year from qualifying sources. in addition, prologis, inc. must pay dividends to its stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of its taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding capital gains) and must satisfy specified asset tests on a quarterly basis. historically, we have satisfied these distribution requirements by making cash distributions to our stockholders, but we may choose to satisfy these requirements by making distributions of cash or other property, including, in limited circumstances, our own stock. for distributions with respect to taxable years that end on or before december 31, and in some cases declared as late as december 31, a reit can satisfy up to 90% of the distribution requirements discussed above through the distribution of other property or shares of our stock if certain conditions are met . the provisions of the internal revenue code and applicable treasury regulations regarding qualification as a reit are more complicated for prologis, inc. because we hold substantially all of our assets through the op. if prologis, inc. fails to qualify as a reit in any taxable year, we will be required to pay federal income tax (including, for taxable years prior to 2018, any applicable alternative minimum tax) on taxable income at regular corporate rates. unless we are entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, prologis, inc. would be disqualified from treatment as a reit for the four taxable years following the year in which it lost the qualification. if prologis, inc. lost its reit status, our net earnings would be significantly reduced for each of the years involved. furthermore, we own a direct or indirect interest in certain subsidiary reits that elected to be taxed as reits under sections 856 through 860 of the internal revenue code. provided that each subsidiary reit qualifies as a reit, our interest in such subsidiary reit will be treated as a qualifying real estate asset for purposes of the reit asset tests, and any dividend income or gains derived by us from such subsidiary reit will generally be treated as income that qualifies for purposes of the reit 95% gross income test. to qualify as a reit, the subsidiary reit must independently satisfy all of the reit qualification requirements. if such subsidiary reit were to fail to qualify as a reit, and certain relief provisions did not apply, it would be treated as a regular taxable corporation and its income would be subject to u.s. federal income tax. in addition, a failure of the subsidiary reit to qualify as a reit would have an adverse effect on the ability of prologis, inc. to comply with the reit income and asset tests, and thus its ability to qualify as a reit. certain property transfers may generate prohibited transaction income, resulting in a penalty tax on gain attributable to the transaction. from time to time, we may transfer or otherwise dispose of some of our properties, including by contributing properties to our co-investment ventures. under the internal revenue code, any gain resulting from transfers of properties we hold as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is treated as income from a prohibited transaction subject to a 100% penalty tax. we do not believe that our transfers or disposals of property or our contributions of properties into our co-investment ventures are prohibited transactions. however, whether property is held for investment purposes is a question of fact that depends on all the facts and circumstances surrounding the particular transaction. the internal revenue service may contend that certain transfers or dispositions of properties by us or contributions of properties into our co-investment ventures are prohibited transactions. while we believe that the internal revenue service would not prevail in any such dispute, if the internal revenue service were to argue successfully that a transfer, disposition or contribution of property constituted a prohibited transaction, we would be required to pay a 100% penalty tax on any gain allocable to us from the prohibited transaction. in addition, income from a prohibited transaction might adversely affect our ability to satisfy the income tests for qualification as a reit. 15 legislative or regulatory action could adversely affect us. in recent years, numerous legislative, judicial and administrative changes have been made to the u.s. and foreign income tax laws applicable to investments in real estate, reits, similar entities and investments. additional changes are likely to continue to occur in the future, both in and outside of the u.s. and may impact our taxation or that of our stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to the impact of foreign exchange-related variability and earnings volatility on our foreign investments and interest rate changes. see our risk factors in item 1a. risk factors, specifically: the depreciation in the value of the foreign currency in countries where we have a significant investment may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position and we may be unable to refinance our debt or our cash flow may be insufficient to make required debt payments. see also notes 2 and 15 in the consolidated financial statements inrisk factors in this report. we undertake no duty to update any forward-looking statements appearing in this report except as may be required by law. part i item 1. business prologis, inc. is a self-administered and self-managed reit and is the sole general partner of prologis, l.p. through which it holds substantially all of its assets. we operate prologis, inc. and prologis, l.p. as one enterprise and, therefore, our discussion and analysis refers to prologis, inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, including prologis, l.p. we invest in real estate through wholly owned subsidiaries and other entities through which we co-invest with partners and investors. we have a significant ownership in the co-investment ventures, which may be consolidated or unconsolidated based on our level of control of the entity. prologis, inc. began operating as a fully integrated real estate company in 1997 and elected to be taxed as a reit under the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended ( internal revenue code or irc ). we believe the current organization and method of operation will enable prologis, inc. to maintain its status as a reit. prologis, l.p. was also formed in 1997. we operate and manage our business on an owned and managed ( o m ) basis and therefore evaluate the operating performance of the properties for our o m portfolio, which includes our consolidated properties and properties owned by our unconsolidated co-investment ventures. we make operating decisions based on our total o m portfolio, as we manage the properties regardless of ownership. we also evaluate our results based on our proportionate economic ownership of each property included in the o m portfolio ( our share ) as it represents the financial results of our share of the o m portfolio. included in our discussion below are references to funds from operations ( ffo ) and net operating income ( noi ), neither of which are u.s. generally accepted accounting principles ( gaap ). see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for a reconciliation of net earnings attributable to common stockholders in the consolidated statements of income to our ffo measures and a reconciliation of noi to operating income, the most directly comparable gaap measure. our corporate headquarters is located at pier 1, bay 1, san francisco, california 94111, and our other principal office locations are in amsterdam, denver, luxembourg, mexico city, shanghai, singapore and tokyo. our internet address is www.prologis.com. all reports required to be filed with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ) are available and can be accessed free of charge through the investor relations section of our website. the common stock of prologis, inc. is listed on the new york stock exchange ( nyse ) under the ticker pld and is a component of the standard poor's ( p ) 500. the company as the global leader in logistics real estate, prologis has a presence in 19 countries across four continents. we own, manage and develop well-located, high-quality logistics facilities, with a focus on the consumption side of the global supply chain. our local teams actively manage our portfolio, which encompasses leasing and property management, capital deployment and opportunistic dispositions, generally allowing us to recycle capital to self-fund our development and acquisition activities. the majority of our properties in the united states ( u.s. ) are wholly owned, while our properties outside the u.s. are primarily held in co-investment ventures which has the benefit of mitigating our exposure to foreign currency movements. our portfolio is focused on the world's most vibrant centers of commerce and our scale allows us to respond to our customers' needs for the highest-quality buildings across these locations. as e-commerce increasingly moves to the forefront of the global supply chain, it 3 drives demand for logistics real estate close to the end consumer. over time, we have invested in properties located withi n infill and urban areas in our largest global markets with immediate access to the consumer population these are our last touch facilities. this positioning gives us the unique ability to provide our customers with the right solutions in their supply chains that, in turn , allows them to meet end consumer expectations. as we look to the future of logistics real estate, we strive to innovate through the development of multistory logistics facilities, creating community workforce programs to develop skilled labor, leveraging technology to invest in data driven operational efficiencies and negotiating better pricing on common products and services that our customers need. our customers turn to us because they know that a strategic relationship with prologis is a competitive advantage. at december 31, 2019, we owned or had investments in properties, on a wholly-owned basis or through ventures, in the following geographies (dollars in billions, based on gross book value and total expected investment (as defined below) and square feet in millions): on january 8, 2020, our two u.s. co-investment ventures acquired the wholly-owned real estate assets of industrial property trust inc. ( ipt ) for approximately $4 billion (our investment was approximately $1.6 billion). the portfolio included 236 properties, aggregating 38 million square feet. the portfolio was generally split evenly between the two co-investment ventures. on february 4, 2020, we acquired liberty property trust and liberty property limited partnership (collectively liberty ) through a merger transaction which we refer to as the liberty transaction and is fully detailed in note 20 to our consolidated financial statements. the liberty portfolio was primarily comprised of logistics real estate assets, including 550 industrial operating properties, aggregating 108 million square feet, which were highly complementary to our u.s. portfolio in terms of product quality, location and growth potential. the portfolio also included development in progress and land for future logistics facilities and office properties. the acquisition expanded our presence in target markets such as lehigh valley, chicago, houston, central pennsylvania, new jersey and southern california. the total acquisition price was approximately $13 billion through the issuance of equity based on the value of the prologis common stock issued using the closing price on february 3, 2020 and the assumption of debt. as a result of the closely aligned portfolios and similar business strategy, we anticipate integrating the ipt and liberty properties while adding minimal property management expenses and further scaling our operations. throughout this discussion, we reflect amounts in u.s. dollars, our reporting currency. included in these amounts are consolidated and unconsolidated investments denominated in foreign currencies, principally the british pound sterling, euro and japanese yen that are impacted by fluctuations in exchange rates when translated to u.s. dollars. we mitigate our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations by investing outside the u.s. through co-investment ventures, borrowing in the functional currency of our consolidated subsidiaries and utilizing derivative financial instruments. 4 operating segments our business comprises two operating segments: real estate operations and strategic capital. below is information summarizing consolidated activity within our segments over the last three years (in millions): (1) noi from real estate operations is calculated directly from our consolidated financial statements as rental revenues and development management and other revenues less rental expenses and other expenses. (2) a developed property moves into the operating portfolio when it meets our definition of stabilization, which is the earlier of one year after completion or reaching 90% occupancy. amounts represent our total expected investment ( tei ), which includes the estimated cost of development, including land, construction and leasing costs. real estate operations rental. rental operations comprise the largest component of our operating segments and generally contribute 85% to 90% of our consolidated revenues, earnings and funds from operations ( ffo ). we collect rent from our customers through long-term operating leases, including reimbursements for the majority of our property operating costs. we expect to generate long-term internal growth by increasing rents, maintaining high occupancy rates and controlling expenses. the primary driver of our revenue growth will be rolling in-place leases to current market rents, which are increasing in the majority of our markets. we believe our active portfolio management, combined with the skills of our property, leasing, maintenance, capital, energy, sustainability and risk management teams, allow us to maximize noi across our portfolio. a significant amount of our rental revenue, noi and cash flows are generated in the u.s. development. given the scarcity of modern logistics facilities in urban centers, our development business allows us to build what our customers need. we develop properties to meet these needs, deepen our market presence and refresh our portfolio quality. we believe we have a competitive advantage due to (i) the strategic locations of our land bank (ii) the development expertise of our local teams and (iii) the depth of our customer relationships. successful development and redevelopment efforts provide significant earnings growth as projects lease up and generate income and increase the net asset value of our real estate operations segment. based on our current estimates, our consolidated land, including options, has the potential to support the development of $9.4 billion of tei of new logistics space. generally, we develop properties in the u.s. for long-term hold and outside the u.s. for contribution to our unconsolidated co-investment ventures. strategic capital our strategic capital segment allows us to partner with some of the world's largest institutional investors to grow our business through private capital. we also access capital in this segment through two publicly traded vehicles: nippon prologis reit, inc. in japan and fibra prologis in mexico. we align our interests with those of our partners by holding significant ownership interests in all of our unconsolidated co-investment ventures (ranging from 15% to 50%), which generally allows us to reduce our exposure to foreign currency movements for investments outside the u.s. this segment produces stable, long-term cash flows and generally contributes 10% to 15% of our consolidated revenues, earnings and ffo. we generate strategic capital revenues from our unconsolidated co-investment ventures, principally through asset and property management services. these revenues are principally earned from open-ended or long-term ventures. we earn additional revenues by providing leasing, acquisition, construction, development, legal and disposition services. in certain ventures, we also have the ability to earn revenues through incentive fees ( promotes or promote revenues ) periodically during the life of a venture or upon liquidation. we plan to profitably grow this business by increasing our assets under management in existing or new ventures. most of the strategic capital revenues are generated outside the u.s. noi in this segment is calculated directly from our consolidated financial statements as strategic capital revenues less strategic capital expenses and excludes property-related noi. 5 future growth we believe the quality and scale of our global portfolio, the expertise of our team, the depth of our customer relationships and the strength of our balance sheet give us unique competitive advantages to grow revenues, noi, earnings, ffo and cash flows. (1) general and administrative ( g a ) expenses is a line item in the consolidated financial statements. adjusted g a expenses is calculated from our consolidated financial statements as g a expenses and strategic capital expenses , less expenses under the prologis promote plan ( ppp ) and property-level management expenses for the properties owned by the ventures . rent growth. we expect market rents to continue to grow over the next few years, driven by demand for the location and quality of our properties. due to strong market rent growth over the last several years, our in-place leases have considerable upside potential. we estimate that our leases are more than 15% below current market rent on the basis of our weighted average ownership at december 31, 2019. therefore, even if market rent growth remains flat, a lease renewal will translate into increased future rental income, on a consolidated basis or through the earnings we recognize from our unconsolidated co-investment ventures based on our ownership. we have experienced positive rent change on rollover (comparing the net effective rent ( ner ) of the new lease to the prior lease for the same space) every quarter since 2013. we expect this trend to continue for several more years due to our current in-place rents being below market coupled with increasing market rents. value creation from development. a successful development and redevelopment program involves maintaining control of well-located and entitled land. we believe that the carrying value of our land bank is below its current fair value. due to the strategic nature of our land bank and development expertise of our teams, we expect to create value as we build out the land bank. we measure the estimated value of a development project as the margin above our anticipated cost to develop. we calculate the margin by comparing the estimated yield on the investment to capitalization rates from our underwriting models. as properties under development stabilize, we expect to realize the value creation principally through contributions to the unconsolidated co-investment ventures and increases in the noi of our operating portfolio. economies of scale from growth. we use adjusted g a expenses as a percentage of the o m portfolio to measure and manage our overhead costs. we have the systems and infrastructure in place to grow both our consolidated portfolio and o m portfolio with limited incremental g a expense. we believe we can continue to grow noi and strategic capital revenues organically and through accretive development and acquisition activity while further reducing g a as a percentage of our investments in real estate. the acquisitions of the liberty and ipt portfolios are key examples of this where we increased our o m portfolio by $17.0 billion and expect minimal increases to g a expenses. staying ahead of what's next . we are working on initiatives to create value beyond the real estate by reengineering our customers' experience, utilizing our scale to streamline our procurement activities and negotiating better pricing on products and services for us and our customers, as well as delivering enhancements to our business through innovation and data analytics. competition real estate ownership is highly fragmented, and we therefore face competition from many owners and operators. competitively priced logistics space could impact our occupancy rates and have an adverse effect on how much rent we can charge, which in turn could affect our operating results. we may face competition regarding our capital deployment activities, including local, regional and national operators or developers. we also face competition from investment managers for institutional capital within our strategic capital business. despite the competition we may face, our strategic focus over the years has given us distinct competitive advantages, including the following: a portfolio of properties strategically located in markets characterized by large population densities and growing consumption, typically near large labor pools and extensive transportation infrastructure, including our last touch facilities the development of logistics facilities with sustainable design features that will continue to meet customer needs for high-quality buildings 6 established relationships with customers served by our experienced and responsive local and regional teams the ability to leverage our organizational scale and structure to provide a single point of contact for our focus customers to solve concerns and address their needs through our in-house global customer solutions team an investment across the portfolio in environmental stewardship, social responsibility and governance ( esg ) practices that enhance asset value while improving sustainability performance proven property management and leasing expertise relationships and successful track record with current and prospective investors in our strategic capital business a strategically located land bank local teams with development expertise and a strong balance sheet and credit ratings, coupled with significant liquidity. customers our broad customer base represents a spectrum of international, national, regional and local logistics users. at december 31, 2019, in our real estate operations segment representing our consolidated properties, we had more than 2,900 customers occupying 362 million square feet of logistics operating properties. below are the primary types of goods in our buildings for our consolidated real estate properties at december 31, 2019: (1) ner is calculated using the estimated total cash to be received over the term of the lease divided by the lease term to determine the amount of cash rent payments received per year. amounts derived in a currency other than the u.s. dollar have been translated using the average rate from the previous year. 7 the following table details our top 25 customers for our consolidated real estate properties at december 31, 2019 (square feet in millions): top customers % of ner total occupied square feet 1. amazon 5.8 17 2. home depot 1.9 7 3. fedex 1.7 4 4. ups 1.3 4 5. geodis 0.9 4 6. xpo logistics 0.8 3 7. u.s. government 0.8 1 8. nfi 0.7 2 9. wal-mart 0.7 2 10. dhl 0.6 2 top 10 customers 15.2 46 11. pepsico 0.6 3 12. office depot 0.5 2 13. dsv air and sea 0.5 2 14. kimberly-clark 0.5 3 15. ingram micro 0.4 2 16. kuehne + nagel 0.4 1 17. apl logistics 0.4 2 18. bed bath beyond, inc. 0.4 2 19. georgia-pacific 0.4 1 20. expeditors international of washington, inc. 0.3 1 21. c wholesale grocers 0.3 1 22. anixter international inc. 0.3 1 23. essendant 0.3 2 24. international paper 0.3 1 25. ford motor 0.3 1 top 25 customers 21.1 71 in our strategic capital segment, we view our partners and investors as our customers. at december 31, 2019, in our co-investment ventures, we partnered with approximately 132 investors, several of which invest in multiple ventures. employees we believe our employees are the most important part of our business. when attracting, developing and retaining talent, we seek individuals who hold varied experiences and viewpoints to create an inclusive and diverse culture and workplace that allows each employee to do their best work and drive our collective success. we focus on leadership development at every level of the organization. we align employees' goals with our overall strategic direction to create a clear link between individual efforts and the long-term success of the organization and then provide effective feedback on their performance towards goals to ensure their growth. we believe a commitment to our employees' learning and development through training, educational opportunities and mentorship is critical to our ability to continue to innovate. through performance plans, talent recognition and individual development planning, along with reward packages, we advance our talent pool and create a sustainable and long-term enterprise. the following table summarizes our total number of employees at december 31, 2019: geographies u.s. (1) 932 other americas 139 europe 398 asia 243 total 1,712 (1) this includes employees who were based in the u.s. but also support other geographies. we allocate the employee costs to provide property management and leasing functions to our real estate operations and strategic capital segments based on the square footage of the respective portfolios. the employee costs to perform only strategic capital functions are allocated directly to that segment. we believe we have good relationships with our employees. prologis employees are not organized under collective bargaining agreements, other than in brazil, although some employees in europe are represented by statutory works councils and as such, benefit from applicable labor agreements. 8 code of ethics and business conduct we maintain a code of ethics and business conduct applicable to our board of directors (the board ) and all of our officers and employees, including the principal executive officer, the principal financial officer and the principal accounting officer, and other people performing similar functions. a copy of our code of ethics and business conduct is available on our website, www.prologis.com . in addition to being accessible through our website, copies of our code of ethics and business conduct can be obtained, free of charge, upon written request to investor relations, pier 1, bay 1, san francisco, california 94111. any amendments to or waivers of our code of ethics and business conduct that apply to the principal executive officer, the principal financial officer, the principal accounting officer, or other people performing similar functions, and that relate to any matter enumerated in item 406(b) of regulation s-k, will be disclosed on our website. environmental stewardship, social responsibility and governance ( esg ) the principles of esg are a natural fit in our business strategy. esg creates value for our company by strengthening our relationships with our customers, investors, employees and the communities in which we do business delivering a strategic business advantage while positively impacting the environment. we develop modern and efficient building designs with state-of-the-art technology to stay ahead of our customers' needs while advancing structural, transportation, and energy requirements. we invest in sustainable design features and practices, such as the addition of solar panels, cool roofs, light emitting diode ( led ) lighting, electric vehicle charging stations, waste and diversion recycling and xeriscaping, that result in cost-savings and operational efficiency for our customers and reduce energy and water consumption, as well as decrease greenhouse gas emissions across our portfolio and corporate operations. we are committed to social responsibility and strengthening relationships important to our business through customer partnerships, investor outreach, community involvement, labor solutions and inclusion and diversity initiatives, as well as a focus on our employees and our customers' employees through health and wellness programs and building design. through our community workforce initiative, for example, we partner with local community organizations to provide logistics training and help our customers with their labor needs, while benefitting local economies and providing new career opportunities. our strong governance and oversight allows us to mitigate risk and preserve value, creating a culture of uncompromising integrity through our board independence and diversity, open communication with our stockholders and a risk management framework that supports our investment and process decisions. the strength of our balance sheet and credit ratings, ability to stay ahead of customer needs, engagement with our employees through ethics and anti-corruption training, along with stockholder outreach ensures the financial, operational and reputational resilience of our organization for the long-term. our approach is reinforced by our code of ethics and business conduct, as described above. environmental matters we are exposed to various environmental risks that may result in unanticipated losses and affect our operating results and financial condition. either the previous owners or we have conducted environmental reviews on a majority of the properties we have acquired, including land. while some of these assessments have led to further investigation and sampling, none of the environmental assessments have revealed an environmental liability, in excess of what was provided for in the underwriting of the acquisition, that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see further discussion in item 1a. risk factors and note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. governmental matters we are exposed to various regulatory requirements, taxes, tariffs, trade wars and laws within the countries in which we operate and unexpected changes in these items may result in unanticipated losses, adverse tax consequences and affect our operating results and financial condition. in addition, we may be impacted by the ability of our non-u.s. subsidiaries to dividend or otherwise transfer cash among our subsidiaries due to currency exchange control regulations and transfer pricing regulations. the impact of regional or country-specific economic instability, including government shutdowns or other internal trade alliances or agreements could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see further discussion in item 1a. risk factors. insurance coverage we carry insurance coverage on our properties. we determine the type of coverage and the policy specifications and limits based on what we deem to be the risks associated with our ownership of properties and our business operations in specific markets. such coverage typically includes property damage and rental loss insurance resulting from such perils as fire, windstorm, flood, earthquake and terrorism commercial general liability insurance and environmental insurance. insurance is maintained through a combination of commercial insurance, self-insurance and a wholly-owned captive insurance entity. the costs to insure our properties are primarily covered through reimbursements from our customers. we believe our insurance coverage contains policy specifications and insured limits that are customary for similar properties, business activities and markets and we believe our properties are adequately insured. see further discussion in item 1a. risk factors. item 1a. risk factors our operations and structure involve various risks that could adversely affect our business and financial condition, including but not limited to, our financial position, results of operations, cash flow, ability to make distributions and payments to security holders and the market value of our securities. these risks relate to prologis as well as our investments in consolidated and unconsolidated entities and 9 include among others, (i) general risks (ii) risks related to our business (iii) risks related to financing and capital and (iv) income tax risks. general risks as a global company, we are subject to social, political and economic risks of doing business in many countries. we conduct a significant portion of our business and employ a substantial number of people outside of the u.s. during 2019, we generated approximately $599 million or 18.0% of our revenues from operations outside the u.s. circumstances and developments related to international operations that could negatively affect us include, but are not limited to, the following factors: difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations in certain geographies, including differing employment practices and labor issues local businesses and cultural factors that differ from our usual standards and practices volatility in currencies and currency restrictions, which may prevent the transfer of capital and profits to the u.s. challenges in establishing effective controls and procedures to regulate operations in different geographies and to monitor compliance with applicable regulations, such as the foreign corrupt practices act, the united kingdom ( u.k. ) bribery act and other similar laws unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, taxes, tariffs, trade wars and laws within the countries in which we operate potentially adverse tax consequences the responsibility of complying with multiple and potentially conflicting laws, e.g., with respect to corrupt practices, employment and licensing the impact of regional or country-specific business cycles and economic instability, including government shutdowns, uncertainty in the u.k., or further withdrawals from the european union or other international trade alliances or agreements political instability, uncertainty over property rights, civil unrest, drug trafficking, political activism or the continuation or escalation of terrorist or gang activities foreign ownership restrictions in operations with the respective countries and access to capital may be more restricted, or unavailable on favorable terms or at all in certain locations. in addition, we may be impacted by the ability of our non-u.s. subsidiaries to dividend or otherwise transfer cash among our subsidiaries due to currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations and potentially adverse tax consequences, among other factors. disruptions in the global capital and credit markets may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. to the extent there is turmoil in the global financial markets, this turmoil has the potential to adversely affect (i) the value of our properties (ii) the availability or the terms of financing that we have or may anticipate utilizing (iii) our ability to make principal and interest payments on, or refinance any outstanding debt when due and (iv) the ability of our customers to enter into new leasing transactions or satisfy rental payments under existing leases. disruptions in the capital and credit markets may also adversely affect the market price of our securities and our ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders. our business and operations could suffer in the event of system failures or cyber security attacks. despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal and hosted information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from any number of sources, including energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war, telecommunication failures and cyber security attacks, such as computer viruses or unauthorized access. any system failure or accident that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to our business. we may also incur additional costs to remedy damages caused by such disruptions. any compromise of our security could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, unauthorized access to information of ours and others, significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, loss or misuse of the information and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could harm our business. risks associated with our dependence on key personnel. we depend on the deep industry knowledge and the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. from time to time, our personnel and their roles may change. while we believe that we are able to retain our key talent and find suitable employees to meet 10 our needs, the loss of key personnel, any change in their roles or the limitation of their availability could adversely affect our business. if we are unable to continue to attract and retain our executive officers, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain key employees become more expensive, our performance and competitive position could be materially adversely affected. our business could be adversely impacted if we have deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting. the design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors, misstatements or misrepresentations. while management continually reviews the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, there can be no guarantee that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. deficiencies, including any material weakness, in our internal control over financial reporting that may occur in the future could result in misstatements or restatements of our financial statements or a decline in the price of our securities. the depreciation in the value of the foreign currency in countries where we have a significant investment may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. we hold significant real estate investments in international markets where the u.s. dollar is not the functional currency. at december 31, 2019, approximately $7.4 billion or 18.5% of our total consolidated assets were invested in a currency other than the u.s. dollar, principally the british pound sterling, euro and japanese yen. for the year ended december 31, 2019, $413 million or 17.2% of our total consolidated segment noi was denominated in a currency other than the u.s. dollar. as a result, we are subject to foreign currency risk due to potential fluctuations in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the u.s. dollar. a significant change in the value of the foreign currency of one or more countries where we have a significant investment may have a material adverse effect on our business and, specifically, our u.s. dollar reported financial position and results of operations. our hedging of foreign currency and interest rate risk may not effectively limit our exposure to other risks. we attempt to mitigate our risk by borrowing in the currencies in which we have significant investments thereby providing a natural hedge. we may also enter into derivative financial instruments that we designate as net investment hedges, as these amounts offset the translation adjustments on the underlying net assets of our foreign investments. we enter into other foreign currency contracts, such as forwards, to reduce fluctuations in foreign currency cash flow associated with the translation of future earnings of our international subsidiaries. although we attempt to mitigate the potential adverse effects of changes in foreign currency rates there can be no assurance that those attempts will be successful. hedging arrangements involve risks, such as the risk of fluctuation in the relative value of the foreign currency or interest rates and the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements. the funds required to settle such arrangements could be significant depending on the stability and movement of the hedged foreign currency or the size of the underlying financing and the applicable interest rates at the time of the breakage. the failure to hedge effectively against foreign exchange changes or interest rate changes may adversely affect our business. compliance or failure to comply with regulatory requirements could result in substantial costs. we are required to comply with many regulations in different countries, including (but not limited to) the foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and similar laws and regulations. our properties are also subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as the americans with disabilities act and state and local fire and life-safety requirements. noncompliance could result in the imposition of governmental fines or the award of damages to private litigants. while we believe that we are currently in material compliance with these regulatory requirements, the requirements may change or new requirements may be imposed that could require significant unanticipated expenditures by us. risks related to our business real estate investments are not as liquid as certain other types of assets, which may reduce economic returns to investors. real estate investments are not as liquid as certain other types of investments and this lack of liquidity may limit our ability to react promptly to changes in economic or other conditions. significant expenditures associated with real estate investments, such as secured mortgage debt payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs, are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from the investments. as a reit, under the irc, we are only able to hold property for sale in the ordinary course of business through taxable reit subsidiaries in order to not incur punitive taxation on any tax gain from the sale of such property. we may dispose of certain properties that have been held for investment to generate liquidity. if we do not satisfy certain safe harbors or we believe there is too much risk of incurring the punitive tax on any tax gain from the sale, we may not pursue such sales. we may decide to sell or contribute properties to certain of our unconsolidated co-investment ventures or sell properties to third parties to generate proceeds to fund our capital deployment activities. our ability to sell or contribute properties on advantageous terms is affected by: (i) competition from other owners of properties that are trying to dispose of their properties (ii) market conditions, including the capitalization rates applicable to our properties and (iii) other factors beyond our control. if our competitors sell assets similar to assets we intend to divest in the same markets or at valuations below our valuations for comparable assets, we may be unable to divest our assets at favorable pricing or at all. the unconsolidated co-investment ventures or third parties who might acquire our properties may need to have access to debt and equity capital, in the private and public markets, in order to acquire properties from us. should they have limited or no access to capital on favorable terms, then dispositions and contributions could be delayed. 11 if we do not have sufficient cash available to us through our operations, sales or contributions of properties or available credit facilities to continue operating our business as usual, we may need to find alternative ways to increase our liquidity. such alternatives may include, without limitation, divesting properties, whether or not they otherwise meet our strategic objectives to keep in the long term, at less than optimal terms, incurring debt, entering into leases with new customers at lower rental rates or less than optimal terms or entering into lease renewals with our existing customers without an increase in rental rates. there can be no assurance, however, that such alternative ways to increase our liquidity will be available to us. additionally, taking such measures to increase our liquidity may adversely affect our business, and in particular, our distributable cash flow and debt covenants. our investments are concentrated in the logistics sector and our business would be adversely affected by an economic downturn in that sector. our investments in real estate assets are concentrated in the logistics sector. this concentration may expose us to the risk of economic downturns in this sector to a greater extent than if our business activities were more diversified. general economic conditions and other events or occurrences that affect areas in which our properties are geographically concentrated, may impact financial results. we are exposed to general economic conditions, local, regional, national and international economic conditions and other events and occurrences that affect the markets in which we own properties. our operating performance is further impacted by the economic conditions of the specific markets in which we have concentrations of properties. at december 31, 2019, 35.0% of our consolidated operating properties or $11.2 billion (based on consolidated gross book value, or investment before depreciation) were located in california (central valley, san francisco bay area and southern california markets), which represented 28.6% of the aggregate square footage of our operating properties and 28.4% of our noi. our revenues from, and the value of, our properties located in california may be affected by local real estate conditions (such as an oversupply of or reduced demand for logistics properties) and the local economic climate. business layoffs, downsizing, industry slowdowns, changing demographics and other factors may adversely impact california's economic climate. because of the investment we have located in california, a downturn in california's economy or real estate conditions, including state income tax and property tax laws, could adversely affect our business. in addition to california, we also have significant holdings (defined as more than 3% of total consolidated investment before depreciation) in operating properties in certain markets located in atlanta, central and eastern pennsylvania, chicago, dallas/fort worth, houston, new jersey/new york city, seattle and south florida. of these markets, no single market contributed more than 10% of our total consolidated investment before depreciation. our operating performance could be adversely affected if conditions become less favorable in any of the markets in which we have a concentration of properties. conditions such as an oversupply of logistics space or a reduction in demand for logistics space, among other factors, may impact operating conditions. any material oversupply of logistics space or material reduction in demand for logistics space could adversely affect our overall business. our o m portfolio, which includes our wholly-owned properties and properties included in our co-investment ventures, has concentrations of properties in the same markets mentioned above, as well as in markets in france, germany, japan, mexico and the u.k., and are subject to the economic conditions in those markets. a number of our investments, both wholly-owned and owned through co-investment ventures, are located in areas that are known to be subject to earthquake activity. u.s. properties located in active seismic areas include properties in our markets in california and seattle. international properties located in active seismic areas include japan and mexico. we generally carry earthquake insurance on our properties located in areas historically subject to seismic activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles, if we believe it is commercially reasonable. we evaluate our earthquake insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants and in some specific instances have elected to self-insure our earthquake exposure based on this analysis. we have elected not to carry earthquake insurance for our assets in japan based on this analysis. furthermore, a number of our properties are located in areas that are known to be subject to hurricane or flood risk. we carry hurricane and flood hazard insurance on all of our properties located in areas historically subject to such activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles, if we believe it is commercially reasonable. we evaluate our insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants. investments in real estate properties are subject to risks that could adversely affect our business. investments in real estate properties are subject to varying degrees of risk. while we seek to minimize these risks through geographic diversification of our portfolio, market research and our asset management capabilities, these risks cannot be eliminated. factors that may affect real estate values and cash flows include: local conditions, such as oversupply or a reduction in demand technological changes, such as reconfiguration of supply chains, autonomous vehicles, robotics, 3d printing or other technologies 12 the attractiveness of our properties to potential customers and competition from other available properties increasing costs of maintaining, insuring, renovating and making improvements to our properties our ability to rehabilitate and reposition our properties due to changes in the business and logistics needs of our customers our ability to control rents and variable operating costs and governmental regulations and the associated potential liability under, and changes in, environmental, zoning, usage, tax, tariffs and other laws. our customers may be unable to meet their lease obligations or we may be unable to lease vacant space or renew leases or re-lease space on favorable terms as leases expire. our operating results and distributable cash flow would be adversely affected if a significant number of our customers were unable to meet their lease obligations. at december 31, 2019, our top 10 customers accounted for 15.2% of our ner. in the event of default by a significant number of customers, we may experience delays and incur substantial costs in enforcing our rights as landlord, and we may be unable to re-lease spaces. a customer may experience a downturn in its business, which may cause the loss of the customer or may weaken its financial condition, resulting in the customer's failure to make rental payments when due or requiring a restructuring that might reduce cash flow from the lease. in addition, a customer may seek the protection of bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws, which could result in the rejection and termination of such customer's lease and thereby cause a reduction in our available cash flow. we are also subject to the risk that, upon the expiration of leases they may not be renewed by existing customers, the space may not be re-leased to new customers or the terms of renewal or re-leasing (including the cost of required renovations or concessions to customers) may be less favorable to us than current lease terms. our competitors may offer space at rental rates below current market rates or below the rental rates we currently charge our customers, we may lose potential customers, and we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we currently charge to retain customers when leases expire. we may acquire properties that involve risks that could adversely affect our business and financial condition. we have acquired properties and will continue to acquire properties, through the direct acquisition of real estate and the acquisition of entities that own the real estate and through additional investments in co-investment ventures that acquire properties. the acquisition of properties involves risks, including the risk that the acquired property will not perform as anticipated and that any actual costs for rehabilitation, repositioning, renovation and improvements identified in the pre-acquisition due diligence process will exceed estimates. when we acquire properties, we may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local economy, forging new business relationships in the area and unfamiliarity with local government and permitting procedures. additionally, there is, and it is expected there will continue to be, significant competition for properties that meet our investment criteria as well as risks associated with obtaining financing for acquisition activities. the acquired properties or entities may be subject to liabilities, including tax liabilities, which may be without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities. as a result, if a liability were asserted against us based on ownership of any of these entities or properties, then we may have to pay substantial sums to settle it. we may be unable to integrate the liberty and ipt operations successfully and realize the anticipated synergies and other benefits or do so within the anticipated timeframe. we will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the operations of liberty and ipt. potential difficulties we may encounter in the integration process include the following: the inability to successfully integrate the operations of liberty and ipt in a manner that permits us to achieve the cost savings anticipated to result from these transactions, which would result in the anticipated benefits not being realized in the timeframe currently anticipated or at all the inability to dispose of non-industrial assets or operations that are outside of our area of expertise potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses, delays or regulatory conditions associated with these transactions and performance shortfalls as a result of the diversion of management's attention caused by completing these transactions and integrating the companies' operations. for all these reasons, it is possible that the integration process could result in the distraction of our management, the disruption of our ongoing business or inconsistencies in our operations, services, standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect the ability of prologis to maintain relationships with customers, vendors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of these transactions, or could otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. 13 our real estate development strategies may not be successful. our real estate development strategy is focused on monetizing land in the future through development of logistics facilities to hold for long-term investment, contribution or sale to a co-investment venture or third party, depending on market conditions, our liquidity needs and other factors. we may increase our investment in the development, renovation and redevelopment business and we expect to complete the build-out and leasing of our current development portfolio. we may also develop, renovate and redevelop properties within existing or newly formed co-investment ventures. the real estate development, renovation and redevelopment business includes the following significant risks: we may not be able to obtain financing for development projects on favorable terms or at all we may explore development opportunities that may be abandoned and the related investment impaired we may not be able to obtain, or may experience delays in obtaining, all necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other governmental permits and authorizations we may have construction costs that exceed our estimates and projects may not be completed, delivered or stabilized as planned due to defects or other issues we may not be able to attract third-party investment in new development co-investment ventures or sufficient customer demand for our product we may have properties that perform below anticipated levels, producing cash flow below budgeted amounts we may seek to sell certain land parcels and not be able to find a third party to acquire such land or the sales price will not allow us to recover our investment, resulting in impairment charges we may not be able to lease properties we develop on favorable terms or at all we may not be able to capture the anticipated enhanced value created by our value-added properties on expected timetables or at all we may experience delays (temporary or permanent) if there is public or government opposition to our activities and we may have substantial renovation, new development and redevelopment activities, regardless of their ultimate success, that require a significant amount of management's time and attention, diverting their attention from our day-to-day operations. we are subject to risks and liabilities in connection with forming co-investment ventures, investing in new or existing co-investment ventures, attracting third-party investment and managing properties through co-investment ventures. at december 31, 2019, we had investments in co-investment ventures, both public and private, that owned operating properties with a gross book value of approximately $41 billion. our organizational documents do not limit the amount of available funds that we may invest in these ventures, and we may and currently intend to develop and acquire properties through co-investment ventures and investments in other entities when warranted by the circumstances. however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to form new co-investment ventures, or attract third-party investment or that additional investments in new or existing ventures to develop or acquire properties will be successful. further, there can be no assurance that we are able to realize value from such investments. our co-investment ventures involve certain additional risks that we do not otherwise face, including: our partners may share certain approval rights over major decisions made on behalf of the ventures if our partners fail to fund their share of any required capital contributions, then we may choose to contribute such capital our partners might have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals that would affect our ability to operate the property the venture or other governing agreements often restrict the transfer of an interest in the co-investment venture or may otherwise restrict our ability to sell the interest when we desire or on advantageous terms our relationships with our partners are generally contractual in nature and may be terminated or dissolved under the terms of the agreements, and in such event, we may not continue to manage or invest in the assets underlying such relationships resulting in reduced fee revenues or obtaining direct ownership of the properties through acquisition and disputes between us and our partners may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and directors from focusing their time and effort on our business and result in subjecting the properties owned by the applicable co-investment venture to additional risk. 14 we generally seek to maintain sufficient influence over our co-investment ventures to permit us to achieve our business objectives however, we may not be able to continue to do so indefinitely. we have formed publicly traded investment vehicles, such as npr and fibra prologis, for which we serve as sponsor or manager. we have contributed, and may continue to contribute, assets into such vehicles. there is a risk that our managerial relationship may be terminated. we are exposed to various environmental risks, which may result in unanticipated losses that could affect our business and financial condition. under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner, developer or operator of real estate may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances. the costs of removal or remediation of such substances could be substantial. such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release or presence of such hazardous substances. in addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages based on personal injury, property damage or other costs, including investigation and clean-up costs, resulting from the environmental contamination. environmental laws in some countries, including the u.s., also require that owners or operators of buildings containing asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos, adequately inform or train those who may come into contact with asbestos and undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, in the event that asbestos is disturbed during building renovation or demolition. these laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos. some of our properties are known to contain asbestos-containing building materials. in addition, some of our properties are leased or have been leased, in part, to owners and operators of businesses that use, store or otherwise handle petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, creating a potential for the release of such hazardous or toxic substances. furthermore, certain of our properties are on, adjacent to or near other properties that have contained or currently contain petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, or upon which others have engaged, are engaged or may engage in activities that may release such hazardous or toxic substances. from time to time, we may acquire properties, or interests in properties, with known adverse environmental conditions for which we believe that the environmental liabilities associated with these conditions are quantifiable and that the acquisition will yield a superior risk-adjusted return. in connection with certain divested properties, we have agreed to remain responsible for, and to bear the cost of, remediating or monitoring certain environmental conditions on the properties. we are exposed to the potential impacts of future climate change, which may result in unanticipated losses that could affect our business and financial condition. we are also exposed to potential physical risks from possible future changes in climate. our logistics facilities may be exposed to rare catastrophic weather events, such as severe storms, fires or floods. if the frequency of extreme weather events increases, our exposure to these events could increase. we do not currently consider ourselves to be exposed to regulatory risks related to climate change, as the operation of our buildings typically does not generate a significant amount of greenhouse gas emissions. however, we may be adversely impacted as a real estate developer in the future by potential impacts to the supply chain or stricter energy efficiency standards or greenhouse gas regulations for the commercial building sectors. we cannot give any assurance that other such conditions do not exist or may not arise in the future. the potential impacts of future climate change on our real estate properties could adversely affect our ability to lease, develop or sell such properties or to borrow using such properties as collateral. our insurance coverage does not include all potential losses. we and our unconsolidated co-investment ventures carry insurance coverage including property damage and rental loss insurance resulting from certain perils such as fire and additional perils as covered under an extended coverage policy, namely windstorm, flood, earthquake and terrorism commercial general liability insurance and environmental insurance, as appropriate for the markets where each of our properties and business operations are located. the insurance coverage contains policy specifications and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties, business activities and markets. we believe our properties and the properties of our co-investment ventures are adequately insured. certain losses, however, including losses from floods, earthquakes, acts of war, acts of terrorism or riots, generally are not insured against or not fully insured against because it is not deemed economically feasible or prudent to do so. if an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs with respect to one or more of our properties, we could experience a significant loss of capital invested and future revenues in these properties and could potentially remain obligated under any recourse debt associated with the property. furthermore, we cannot be sure that the insurance companies will be able to continue to offer products with sufficient coverage at commercially reasonable rates. if we experience a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds insured limits with respect to one or more of our properties or if the insurance companies fail to meet their coverage commitments to us in the event of an insured loss, then we could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties, as well as the anticipated future revenues from those properties and, if there is recourse debt, then we would remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the properties. any such losses or higher insurance costs could adversely affect our business. 15 risks related to financing and capital we may be unable to refinance our debt or our cash flow may be insufficient to make required debt payments. we are subject to risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest. there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any maturing indebtedness, that such refinancing would be on terms as favorable as the terms of the maturing indebtedness, or that we will be able to otherwise obtain funds by selling assets or raising equity to make required payments on maturing indebtedness. if we are unable to refinance our indebtedness at maturity or meet our payment obligations, our business and financial condition will be negatively impacted and, if the maturing debt is secured, the lender may foreclose on the property securing such indebtedness. our credit facilities and certain other debt bears interest at variable rates. increases in interest rates would increase our interest expense under these agreements. covenants in our credit agreements could limit our flexibility and breaches of these covenants could adversely affect our financial condition. the terms of our various credit agreements, including our credit facilities, the indentures under which our senior notes and term loans are issued and other note agreements, require us to comply with a number of customary financial covenants, such as maintaining debt service coverage ratio, leverage ratios, fixed charge coverage ratios and other operating covenants including maintaining insurance coverage. these covenants may limit our flexibility to run our business, and breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable indebtedness. if we default under the covenant provisions and are unable to cure the default, refinance the indebtedness or meet payment obligations, our business and financial condition generally and, in particular, the amount of our distributable cash flow could be adversely affected. adverse changes in our credit ratings could negatively affect our financing activity. at december 31, 2019, our credit ratings were a3 from moody's and a- from p, both with stable outlook. a securities rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating organization. the credit ratings of our senior notes and preferred stock are based on our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position and other factors employed by the credit rating agencies in their rating analyses of us. our credit ratings can affect the amount of capital we can access, as well as the terms and pricing of any debt we may incur. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings, and in the event our credit ratings are downgraded, we would likely incur higher borrowing costs and may encounter difficulty in obtaining additional financing. also, a downgrade in our credit ratings may trigger additional payments or other negative consequences under our credit facilities and other debt instruments. adverse changes in our credit ratings could negatively impact our business and, in particular, our refinancing and other capital market activities, our ability to manage debt maturities, our future growth and our development and acquisition activity. the financial conduct authority ( fca ), the authority that regulates the london inter-bank offered rate ( libor ), announced that it intends to stop compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of libor after 2021 which will require transition to an alternative reference rate that could have a negative impact on our required debt payments and the value of our related debt and derivative financial instruments. in july 2017, the fca announced it intended to stop compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of libor after 2021. as a result, in the u.s., the federal reserve board and the federal reserve bank of new york identified the secured overnight financing rate as its preferred alternative rate for usd libor in debt and derivative financial instruments. additionally, other global regulators have undertaken reference rate reform initiatives to identify a preferred alternative rate for other interbank offered rates ( ibors ). we have variable-rate debt of $2.0 billion at december 31, 2019 that are indexed to libor, cdor and yen libor (herein referred to as ibor-indexed ). our loan documents contain provisions that contemplate alternative methods to determine the base rate applicable to our ibor-indexed debt to the extent ibor-indexed rates are not available. additionally, no mandatory prepayment or redemption provisions would be triggered under our loan documents in the event that the ibor-indexed rates are not available. if a contract is not transitioned to a preferred alternative rate and ibor-indexed rates are discontinued, the impact on our debt and derivative financial instruments is likely to vary by contract. if ibor-indexed rates are discontinued or if the methods of calculating the rates change, interest rates on our current or future indebtedness may be adversely affected. while we currently expect ibor-indexed rates to be available until the end of 2021, it is possible that they will become unavailable prior to that time. we anticipate managing the transition to a preferred alternative rate using the language set out in our agreements and through potentially modifying our debt and derivative instruments, however future market conditions may not allow immediate implementation of desired modifications and we may incur significant associated costs in doing so. we will continue to monitor and evaluate the potential impact on our debt payments and value of our related debt and derivative financial instruments, however, we are not able to predict when ibor-indexed rates will cease to be available. in order to meet reit distribution requirements we may need access to external sources of capital. to qualify as a reit, we are required each year to distribute at least 90% of our reit taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends-paid deduction and by excluding any net capital gain) to our stockholders and we may be subject to tax to the extent our taxable income is not fully distributed. historically, we have satisfied these distribution requirements by making cash distributions to our 16 stockholders , however, we may elect to pay a portion of the distribution in shares of our stock . assuming we continue to satisfy these distribution requirements with cash, we may not be able to fund all future capital needs, including acquisition and development activities, from cash retained from operations and may have to rely on third-party sources of capital. furthermore, to maintain our reit status and not have to pay federal income and excise taxes, we may need to borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the reit distribution requirements even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings. these short-term borrowing needs could result from differences in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for federal income tax purposes, or the effect of nondeductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt or amortization payments. our ability to access debt and equity capital on favorable terms or at all depends on a number of factors, including general market conditions, the market's perception of our growth potential, our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions and the market price of our securities. our stockholders may experience dilution if we issue additional common stock or units in the op. any additional future issuance of common stock or op units will reduce the percentage of our common stock and units owned by investors. in most circumstances, stockholders and unitholders will not be entitled to vote on whether or not we issue additional common stock or units. in addition, depending on the terms and pricing of any additional offering of our common stock or units and the value of the properties, our stockholders and unitholders may experience dilution in both book value and fair value of their common stock or units. income tax risks the failure of prologis, inc. to qualify as a reit would have serious adverse consequences. prologis, inc. elected to be taxed as a reit under sections 856 through 860 of the irc commencing with the taxable year ended december 31, 1997. we believe prologis, inc. has been organized and operated to qualify as a reit under the irc and believe that the current organization and method of operation comply with the rules and regulations promulgated under the irc to enable prologis, inc. to continue to qualify as a reit. however, it is possible that we are organized or have operated in a manner that would not allow prologis, inc. to qualify as a reit, or that our future operations could cause prologis, inc. to fail to qualify. qualification as a reit requires us to satisfy numerous requirements (some annually and others on a quarterly basis) established under highly technical and complex sections of the irc for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations and involves the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. for example, to qualify as a reit, prologis, inc. must derive at least 95% of its gross income in any year from qualifying sources. in addition, prologis, inc. must pay dividends to its stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of its taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding capital gains) and must satisfy specified asset tests on a quarterly basis. historically, we have satisfied these distribution requirements by making cash distributions to our stockholders, but we may choose to satisfy these requirements by making distributions of cash or other property, including, in limited circumstances, our own stock. the provisions of the irc and applicable treasury regulations regarding qualification as a reit are more complicated for prologis, inc. because we hold substantially all of our assets through the op. if prologis, inc. fails to qualify as a reit in any taxable year, we will be required to pay federal income tax (including, for taxable years prior to 2018, any applicable alternative minimum tax) on taxable income at regular corporate rates. unless we are entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, prologis, inc. would be disqualified from treatment as a reit for the four taxable years following the year in which it lost the qualification and would be subject to corporate tax on built-in gains that exist at the time of reit re-election if recognized within the five-year period after re-election, and potentially 10 years for certain states. if prologis, inc. lost its reit status, our net earnings would be significantly reduced for each of the years involved. in addition, we may need to borrow additional funds or liquidate some investments to pay any additional tax liability. accordingly, funds available for investment, operations and distributions would be reduced. furthermore, we own a direct or indirect interest in certain subsidiary reits that elected to be taxed as reits under sections 856 through 860 of the irc. provided that each subsidiary reit qualifies as a reit, our interest in such subsidiary reit will be treated as a qualifying real estate asset for purposes of the reit asset tests, and any dividend income or gains derived by us from such subsidiary reit will generally be treated as income that qualifies for purposes of the reit 95% and 75% gross income tests. to qualify as a reit, the subsidiary reit must independently satisfy all of the reit qualification requirements. if such subsidiary reit were to fail to qualify as a reit, and certain relief provisions did not apply, it would be treated as a regular taxable corporation and its income would be subject to u.s. federal income tax. in addition, a failure of the subsidiary reit to qualify as a reit would have an adverse effect on the ability of prologis, inc. to comply with the reit income and asset tests, and thus its ability to qualify as a reit. in addition, we may acquire properties through the acquisition of reit entities that own the real estate. if a gain in such assets is not otherwise recognized by the seller or target in such acquisitions, and such entities were to fail to satisfy the reit requirements for any year, they would be disqualified from treatment as a reit for the four taxable years following the year in which the reit qualification was lost and the acquired assets would be subject to corporate tax on built-in gains that exist at the time of reit re-election or, if earlier, at the time of prologis' acquisition of the assets. a sale of such assets within the 5-year recognition period, and potentially 10 years for certain states, could result in corporate tax liabilities that could be significant. 17 certain property transfers may generate prohibited transaction income, resulting in a penalty tax on gain attributable to the transaction. from time to time, we may transfer or otherwise dispose of some of our properties, including by contributing properties to our co-investment ventures. under the irc, any gain resulting from transfers of properties we hold as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is treated as income from a prohibited transaction subject to a 100% penalty tax. we do not believe that our transfers or disposals of property or our contributions of properties into our co-investment ventures are prohibited transactions. however, whether property is held for investment purposes is a question of fact that depends on all the facts and circumstances surrounding the particular transaction. the internal revenue service ( irs ) may contend that certain transfers or dispositions of properties by us or contributions of properties into our co-investment ventures are prohibited transactions. while we believe that the irs would not prevail in any such dispute, if the irs were to argue successfully that a transfer, disposition or contribution of property constituted a prohibited transaction, we would be required to pay a 100% penalty tax on any gain allocable to us from the prohibited transaction. in addition, income from a prohibited transaction might adversely affect our ability to satisfy the income tests for qualification as a reit. legislative or regulatory action could adversely affect us. in recent years, numerous legislative, judicial and administrative changes have been made to the u.s., state, local and foreign income tax laws applicable to investments in real estate, reits, similar entities and investments. additional changes are likely to continue to occur in the future, both in and outside of the u.s. and may impact our taxation or that of our stockholders. any increases in tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for other purposes. complying with reit requirements may limit our flexibility or cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities. our use of taxable reit subsidiaries ( trss ) enables us to engage in non-reit qualifying business activities. under the irc, no more than 20% of the value of the assets of a reit may be represented by securities of one or more trss and other non-qualifying assets. this limitation may hinder our ability to make certain attractive investments, including the purchase of non-qualifying assets, the expansion of non-real estate activities and investments in the businesses to be conducted by our trss, and to that extent limit our opportunities. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to the impact of foreign exchange-related variability and earnings volatility on our foreign investments and interest rate changes. see our risk factors in item 1a. risk factors, specifically: the depreciation in the value of the foreign currency in countries where we have a significant investment may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position and we may be unable to refinance our debt or our cash flow may be insufficient to make required debt payments. see also notes 2 and 15 in the consolidated financial statements in