risk factors in addition to the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k, you should carefully consider the following factors which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or stock price. the risks below are not the only risks we face. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or stock price. we face strong competition. our failure to successfully develop and market new products could adversely affect our business. the medical device industry is highly competitive. we compete with many domestic and foreign medical device companies ranging from small start-up enterprises that might sell only a single or limited number of competitive products or compete only in a specific market segment, to companies that are larger and more established than us, have a broad range of competitive products, participate in numerous markets and have access to significantly greater financial and marketing resources than we do. in addition, the medical device industry is characterized by extensive product research and development and rapid technological advances. the future success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability to design and manufacture new competitive products and enhance existing products. our product development efforts may require us to make substantial investments. there can be no assurance that unforeseen problems will not occur with respect to the development, performance or market acceptance of new technologies or products, such as our inability to: identify viable new products; obtain adequate intellectual property protection; gain market acceptance of new products; or successfully obtain regulatory approvals. in addition, our competitors currently may be developing, or may develop in the future, products that provide better features, clinical outcomes or economic value than those that we currently offer or subsequently develop. our failure to successfully develop and market new products or enhance existing products could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 our customers depend on third party coverage and reimbursements and the failure of healthcare programs to provide coverage and reimbursement, or the reduction in reimbursement levels, for our medical products could adversely affect us. the ability of our customers to obtain coverage and reimbursement for our products is important to our business. demand for many of our existing and new medical products is, and will continue to be, affected by the extent to which government healthcare programs and private health insurers reimburse our customers for patients' medical expenses in the countries where we do business. even when we develop or acquire a promising new product, demand for the product may be limited unless reimbursement approval is obtained from private and governmental third party payors. internationally, healthcare reimbursement systems vary significantly. in some countries, medical centers are constrained by fixed budgets, regardless of the extent of their patient treatment. other countries require application for, and approval of, government or third party reimbursement. without both favorable coverage determinations by, and the financial support of, government and third party insurers, the market for many of our medical products would be adversely affected. we cannot be sure that third party payors will maintain the current level of coverage and reimbursement to our customers for use of our existing products. adverse coverage determinations or any reduction in the amount of reimbursement could harm our business by reducing customers' selection of our products and the prices they are willing to pay. in addition, as a result of their purchasing power, third party payors are implementing cost cutting measures such as seeking discounts, price reductions or other incentives from medical products suppliers and imposing limitations on coverage and reimbursement for medical technologies and procedures. these trends could compel us to reduce prices for our products and could cause a decrease in the size of the market or a potential increase in competition that could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may not be successful in achieving expected operating efficiencies and sustaining or improving operating expense reductions, and may experience business disruptions associated with restructuring, facility consolidations, realignment, cost reduction and other strategic initiatives. over the past several years we have implemented a number of restructuring, realignment and cost reduction initiatives, including the realignment of our north american organizational structure, facility consolidations and reductions in our workforce. while we have realized some efficiencies from these actions, we may not realize the benefits of these initiatives to the extent we anticipated. further, such benefits may be realized later than expected, and the ongoing difficulties in implementing these measures may be greater than anticipated, which could cause us to incur additional costs or result in business disruptions. in addition, if these measures are not successful or sustainable, we may be compelled to undertake additional realignment and cost reduction efforts, which could result in significant additional charges. moreover, if our restructuring and realignment efforts prove ineffective, our ability to achieve our other strategic and business plan goals may be adversely affected. in addition, as part of our efforts to increase operating efficiencies, we have implemented a number of initiatives over the past several years to consolidate our enterprise resource planning, or erp, systems. for example, between 2012 and 2013, we migrated our arrow business onto our principal erp system. to date, we have not experienced any significant disruptions to our business or operations in connection with these initiatives. however, as we continue our efforts to further consolidate our erp systems, we could experience business disruptions, which could adversely affect customer relationships and divert the attention of management away from daily operations. in addition, any delays in the implementation of these initiatives could cause us to incur additional unexpected costs. should we experience such difficulties, our business, cash flows and results of operations could be adversely affected. we are subject to extensive government regulation, which may require us to incur significant expenses to ensure compliance. our failure to comply with those regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our products are classified as medical devices and are subject to extensive regulation in the united states by the fda and by comparable government agencies in other countries. the regulations govern, among other things, the development, design, approval, manufacturing, labeling, importing and exporting and sale and marketing of many of our products. moreover, these regulations are subject to future change. 17 in the united states, before we can market a new medical device, or a new use of, or claim for, or significant modification to, an existing product, we generally must first receive either 510(k) or de novo clearance or approval of a premarket approval application, or pma, from the fda. similarly, most major markets for medical devices outside the united states also require clearance, approval or compliance with certain standards before a product can be commercially marketed. the process of obtaining regulatory clearances and approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the fda and certain foreign governmental authorities, can be costly and time consuming, and clearances and approvals might not be granted for new products on a timely basis, if at all. in addition, once a device has been cleared or approved, a new clearance or approval may be required before the device may be modified or its labeling changed. furthermore, the fda or a foreign governmental authority may make its review and clearance or approval process more rigorous, which could require us to generate additional clinical or other data, and expend more time and effort, in obtaining future product clearances or approvals. the regulatory clearance and approval process may result in, among other things, delayed realization of product revenues, substantial additional costs or limitations on indicated uses of products, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. even after a product has received marketing approval or clearance, such product approval or clearance can be withdrawn or limited due to unforeseen problems with the device or issues relating to its application. failure to comply with applicable regulations could lead to adverse effects on our business, which could include: partial suspension or total shutdown of manufacturing; product shortages; delays in product manufacturing; warning or untitled letters; fines or civil penalties; delays in obtaining new regulatory clearances or approvals; withdrawal or suspension of required clearances, approvals or licenses; product seizures or recalls; injunctions; criminal prosecution; advisories or other field actions; operating restrictions; and prohibitions against exporting of products to, or importing products from, countries outside the united states. we could be required to expend significant financial and human resources to remediate failures to comply with applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines. in addition, civil and criminal penalties, including exclusion under medicaid or medicare, could result from regulatory violations. any one or more of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. medical devices are cleared or approved for one or more specific intended uses. promoting a device for an off-label use could result in government enforcement action. furthermore, our facilities are subject to periodic inspection by the fda and other federal, state and foreign government authorities, which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to certain regulations, including the fda's quality system regulation, which requires periodic audits, design controls, quality control testing and documentation procedures, as well as complaint evaluations and investigation. for example, in march 2014, we received a warning letter from the fda with respect to our arlington heights, illinois manufacturing facility. for information regarding the warning letter, see "business - government regulation" in item 1 of this report. in addition, any facilities assembling convenience kits that include drug components and are registered as drug repackaging establishments are subject to current good manufacturing practices requirements. the fda also requires the reporting of certain adverse events and may require the reporting of recalls or other field safety corrective actions. issues identified through such inspections and reports may result in fda enforcement action through any of the actions discussed above. moreover, issues identified through such inspections and reports may require significant resources to resolve. 18 we are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse laws, regulation and enforcement; our failure to comply with those laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse regulation and enforcement by the federal government and the governments of those states and foreign countries in which we conduct our business. the laws that may affect our ability to operate include: the federal healthcare anti-kickback statute, which, among other things, prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully offering or paying remuneration to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as medicare and medicaid, or soliciting payment for such referrals, purchases, orders and recommendations; federal false claims laws which, among other things, prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, false or fraudulent claims for payment from the federal government, including medicare, medicaid or other third-party payors; the federal health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996 ( hipaa ), which prohibit schemes to defraud any healthcare benefit program and false statements relating to healthcare matters; and state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers. if our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws or any other government regulations, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, the exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs and imprisonment of personnel, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. the risk of our being found to have violated these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. further, the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education affordability reconciliation act (collectively, the affordable care act ), imposed new reporting and disclosure requirements on device manufacturers for any transfer of value made or distributed to prescribers and other healthcare providers. our first report was submitted in 2014, and the reported information was made publicly available in a searchable format in september 2014. in addition, device manufacturers are required to report and disclose any investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members during the preceding calendar year. failure to submit required information may result in civil monetary penalties for each payment, transfer of value or ownership or investment interests not reported in an annual submission, up to an aggregate of $150,000 per year (and up to an aggregate of $1 million per year for knowing failures ). in addition, there has been a recent trend of increased federal and state regulation of payments made to healthcare providers. some states, such as california, connecticut, nevada and massachusetts, mandate implementation of compliance programs that include the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation for consulting and other services, and other remuneration to healthcare providers. the shifting commercial compliance environment and the need to build and maintain robust and expandable systems to comply with the different compliance and/or reporting requirements among a number of jurisdictions increases the possibility that we may inadvertently violate one or more of the requirements, resulting in increased compliance costs that could adversely impact our results of operations. 19 we may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability and warranty claims, as well as product recalls, any of which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. furthermore, as a medical device company, our reputation may be damaged if one or more of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective. our businesses expose us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture and marketing of our products. in particular, our medical device products are often used in surgical and intensive care settings with seriously ill patients. in addition, many of our products are designed to be implanted in the human body for varying periods of time. product defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks with respect to products we manufacture or sell could result in patient injury or death. in addition, in connection with the divestitures of our former non-medical businesses, we agreed to retain certain liabilities related to those businesses, which include, among other things, liability for products manufactured prior to the date on which we completed the sale of the business. product liability and warranty claims often involve very large or indeterminate amounts, including punitive damages. the magnitude of potential losses from product liability lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time, and the related legal defense costs may be significant. we could experience material warranty or product liability losses in the future and incur significant costs to defend these claims. in addition, if any of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective, we may voluntarily participate, or be required by regulatory authorities to participate, in a recall of that product. in the event of a recall, we may lose sales and be exposed to individual or class-action litigation claims. moreover, negative publicity regarding a quality or safety issue, whether accurate or inaccurate, could harm our reputation, decrease demand for our products, lead to product withdrawals or impair our ability to successfully launch and market our products in the future. product liability, warranty and recall costs may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations the ongoing volatility in the domestic and global financial markets, combined with a continuation of constrained global credit markets could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we are subject to risks arising from adverse changes in general domestic and global economic conditions. the economic slowdown and disruption of credit markets that occurred in recent years, led to recessionary conditions and depressed levels of consumer and commercial spending, resulting in reductions, delays or canceled purchases of our products and services. while recent economic indicators suggest improvement in the global economy, we cannot predict the duration or extent of any economic recovery or the extent to which our customers will return to more typical spending behaviors. if the improvement in economic conditions does not continue, our customers may terminate existing purchase orders or reduce the volume of products or services they purchase from us. additionally, our customers, particularly in the european region, have extended or delayed payments for products and services already provided, which has increased our focus on collectability with respect to our accounts receivable from these customers. to date, we have not experienced an inordinate amount of payment defaults by our customers, and we have sufficient lending commitments in place to enable us to fund our foreseeable additional operating needs. however, in light of the ongoing volatility in the european financial markets, combined with a continuation of constrained european credit markets there is a risk that our european customers and suppliers may be unable to access liquidity. as of december 31, 2014 and 2013 , our net current and long term accounts receivable in italy, spain, portugal and greece were $76.2 million and $97.9 million , respectively. in 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , net revenues from these countries were approximately 8% , 8% and 9% of total net revenues, respectively, and average days that accounts receivable from these countries were outstanding were 223 , 260 and 288 days, respectively. although we maintain allowances for doubtful accounts to cover the estimated losses which may occur when customers cannot make their required payments, we cannot be assured that we will continue to experience the same loss rate in the future given the volatility in the worldwide economy. if our allowance for doubtful accounts is insufficient to address receivables we ultimately determine are uncollectible, we would be required to incur additional charges, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. moreover, our inability to collect outstanding receivables could adversely affect our financial condition and cash flow from operations. in addition, adverse economic and financial market conditions may result in future impairment charges with respect to our goodwill and other intangible assets, which would not directly affect our liquidity but could have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results. 20 our strategic initiatives, including acquisitions, may not produce the intended growth in revenue and operating income. our strategic initiatives include making significant investments designed to achieve revenue growth and margin improvement targets. if we do not achieve the expected benefits from these investments or otherwise fail to execute on our strategic initiatives, we may not achieve the growth improvement we are targeting and our results of operations may be adversely affected. in addition, as part of our strategy for growth, we have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions and divestitures and enter into strategic alliances such as joint ventures and joint development agreements. however, we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions or integrate acquisitions successfully, and our strategic alliances may not prove to be successful. in this regard, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration of acquired operations, technologies, services and products and the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. even if we are successful in making an acquisition, the products and technologies that we acquire may not be successful or may require significantly greater resources and investments than we originally anticipated. we could also experience negative effects on our results of operations and financial condition from acquisition-related charges, amortization of intangible assets and asset impairment charges, and other issues that could arise in connection with the acquisition of a company or business, including issues related to internal control over financial reporting, regulatory compliance and short-term effects of increased costs on results of operations. although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in any particular transaction, there can be no assurance that we will identify all such risks or the magnitude of the risks. in addition, prior acquisitions have resulted, and future acquisitions could result, in the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness and other expenses. future acquisitions may also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities. there can be no assurance that difficulties encountered with acquisitions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. health care reform may have a material adverse effect on our industry and our business. political, economic and regulatory developments have effected fundamental changes in the healthcare industry. the affordable care act substantially changed the way health care is financed by both government and private insurers. it also encourages improvements in the quality of health care products and services and significantly impacts the united states pharmaceutical and medical device industries. among other things, the affordable care act: established a 2.3% excise tax on sales of medical devices with respect to any entity that manufactures or imports specified medical devices offered for sale in the united states; established a new patient-centered outcomes research institute to oversee, identify priorities in and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research; implemented payment system reforms, including a national pilot program to encourage hospitals, physicians and other providers to improve the coordination, quality and efficiency of certain health care services through bundled payment models; and created an independent payment advisory board that will submit recommendations to reduce medicare spending if projected medicare spending exceeds a specified growth rate. in 2014 and 2013 , we paid $12.7 million and $11.5 million , respectively, with respect to the medical device excise tax. however, we cannot predict at this time the full impact of the affordable care act or other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. we are subject to risks associated with our non-united states operations. we have significant manufacturing and distribution facilities, research and development facilities, sales personnel and customer support operations in a number of countries outside the united states, including canada, belgium, the czech republic, france, germany, ireland, malaysia, mexico, and singapore. as of december 31, 2014, 73% of our full-time and temporary employees were employed in countries outside of the united states. as of december 31, 2014 , 2013 and 2012, approximately 45% , 37% and 39%, respectively, of our net property, plant and equipment was located outside the united states. in addition, for the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 approximately 50% , 50% and 49%, respectively, of our net revenues (based on the teleflex facility generating the sale) were derived from operations outside the united states. 21 our international operations are subject to risks inherent in doing business outside the united states, including: exchange controls, currency restrictions and fluctuations in currency values; trade protection measures; potentially costly and burdensome import or export requirements; laws and business practices that favor local companies; changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and procedures; subsidies or increased access to capital for firms that currently are or may emerge as competitors in countries in which we have operations; substantial foreign tax liabilities, including potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; restrictions and taxes related to the repatriation of foreign earnings; differing labor regulations; additional united states and foreign government controls or regulations; difficulties in the protection of intellectual property; and unsettled political and economic conditions and possible terrorist attacks against american interests. in addition, the united states foreign corrupt practices act (the fcpa ) and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws in non-united states jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-united states officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. the fcpa also imposes accounting standards and requirements on publicly traded united states corporations and their foreign affiliates, which, among other things, are intended to prevent the diversion of corporate funds to the payment of bribes and other improper payments, and to prevent the establishment of off the books slush funds from which such improper payments can be made. because of the predominance of government-sponsored health care systems around the world, many of our customer relationships outside of the united states are with government entities and are therefore subject to such anti-bribery laws. our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. however, we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced government corruption to some degree. despite meaningful measures that we undertake to facilitate lawful conduct, which include training and compliance programs and internal control policies and procedures, we may not always prevent reckless or criminal acts by our employees, distributors or other agents. in addition, we may be exposed to liability due to pre-acquisition conduct of employees, distributors or other agents of businesses or operations we may acquire. violations of anti-bribery laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our operations, involve significant management distraction and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we also could be subject to severe penalties, including criminal and civil penalties, disgorgement, further changes or enhancements to our procedures, policies and controls, personnel changes and other remedial actions. furthermore, we are subject to the export controls and economic embargo rules and regulations of the united states, including the export administration regulations and trade sanctions against embargoed countries, which are administered by the office of foreign assets control within the department of the treasury, as well as other laws and regulations administered by the department of commerce. these regulations limit our ability to market, sell, distribute or otherwise transfer our products or technology to prohibited countries or persons. while we train our employees and contractually obligate our distributors to comply with these regulations, we cannot assure that a violation will not occur, whether knowingly or inadvertently. failure to comply with these rules and regulations may result in substantial civil and criminal penalties, including fines and the disgorgement of profits, the imposition of a court-appointed monitor, the denial of export privileges and debarment from participation in united states government contracts. the risks relating to our foreign operations may have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our business, results of operations and financial condition generally. 22 foreign currency exchange rate, commodity price and interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. products manufactured in, and sold into, foreign markets represent a significant portion of our operations. our consolidated financial statements reflect translation of financial statements denominated in non-united states currencies to united states dollars, our reporting currency, as well as the foreign currency exchange gains and losses resulting from transactions denominated in non-functional currencies. when the united states dollar strengthens or weakens in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries in which we sell or manufacture our products, such as the euro, our united states dollar-reported revenue and income will fluctuate. although we have entered into forward contracts with several major financial institutions to hedge a portion of projected cash flows denominated in non-functional currencies in order to reduce the effects of currency rate fluctuations, changes in the relative values of currencies may, in some instances, have a significant effect on our results of operations. many of our products have significant plastic resin content. we also use quantities of other commodities, such as aluminum and steel. increases in the prices of these commodities could increase the costs of our products and services. we may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers, particularly with respect to those products we sell under group purchase agreements, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. increases in interest rates may adversely affect the financial health of our customers and suppliers and thus adversely affect their ability to buy our products and supply the components or raw materials we need. in addition, our borrowing costs could be adversely affected if interest rates increase. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. fluctuations in our effective tax rate and changes to tax laws may adversely affect our results. as a global company, we are subject to taxation in numerous countries, states and other jurisdictions. our effective tax rate is derived from a combination of applicable tax rates in the various countries, states and other jurisdictions in which we operate. in preparing our financial statements, we estimate the amount of tax that will become payable in each of these jurisdictions. our effective tax rate may, however, differ from the estimated amount due to numerous factors, including a change in the mix of our profitability from country to country and changes in tax laws. any of these factors could cause us to experience an effective tax rate significantly different from previous periods or our current expectations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. an interruption in our manufacturing or distribution operations or our supply of raw materials may adversely affect our business. many of our key products are manufactured at or distributed from single locations, and the availability of alternate facilities is limited. if operations at one or more of our facilities is suspended due to natural disasters or other events, we may not be able to timely manufacture or distribute one or more of our products at previous levels or at all. furthermore, our ability to establish replacement facilities or to substitute suppliers may be delayed due to regulations and requirements of the fda and other regulatory authorities regarding the manufacture of our products. in addition, in the event of delays or cancellations in shipments of raw materials by our suppliers, we may not be able to timely manufacture or supply the affected products at previous levels or at all. the manufacture of our products is highly exacting and complex, due in part to strict regulatory requirements. problems in the manufacturing process, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, defective raw materials and environmental factors, could lead to launch delays, product shortages, unanticipated costs, lost revenues and damage to our reputation. a failure to identify and address manufacturing problems prior to the release of products to our customers may also result in quality or safety issues. a reduction or interruption in manufacturing or distribution, or our inability to secure suitable alternative sources of raw materials or components, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our ability to attract, train, develop and retain key employees is important to our success. our success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to retain our key personnel, including our executive officers and other members of our senior management team. our success also depends, in part, on our ability to attract, train, develop and retain other key employees, including research and development, sales, marketing and operations personnel. we may experience difficulties in retaining executives and other employees due to many factors, including: 23 the intense competition for skilled personnel in our industry; fluctuations in global economic and industry conditions; changes in our organizational structure; our restructuring initiatives; competitors' hiring practices; and the effectiveness of our compensation programs. our inability to attract, train, develop and retain such personnel could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we depend upon relationships with physicians and other health care professionals. research and development for some of our products is dependent on our maintaining strong working relationships with physicians and other healthcare professionals. we rely on these professionals to provide us with considerable knowledge and experience regarding the development and use of our products. physicians assist us as researchers, product consultants, inventors and public speakers. if we fail to maintain our working relationships with physicians and receive the benefits of their knowledge and advice, our products may not be developed in a manner that is responsive to the needs and expectations of the professionals who use and support our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our technology is important to our success, and our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could put us at a competitive disadvantage. we rely on the patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws of the united states and other countries to protect our proprietary rights. although we own numerous united states and foreign patents and have submitted numerous patent applications, we cannot be assured that any pending patent applications will issue, or that any patents, issued or pending, will provide us with any competitive advantage or will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties. in addition, we rely on confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with employees and take other measures to protect our know-how and trade secrets. the steps we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of our technology by competitors or other persons who may copy or otherwise obtain and use these products or technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as in the united states. there is no guarantee that current and former employees, contractors and other parties will not breach their confidentiality agreements with us, misappropriate proprietary information, copy or otherwise obtain and use our information and proprietary technology without authorization or otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. our inability to protect our proprietary technology could adversely affect our business. moreover, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop the know-how and trade secrets or develop better technology than our own, which could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we have developed. our products or processes may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to pay unexpected litigation costs or damages or prevent us from selling our products. we cannot be certain that our products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of our business, including claims of alleged infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties. any such claims, whether or not meritorious, could result in litigation and divert the efforts of our personnel. if we are found liable for infringement, we may be required to enter into licensing agreements (which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all) or to pay damages or cease making or selling certain products. we may need to redesign some of our products or processes to avoid future infringement liability. any of the foregoing events could be detrimental to our business. 24 other pending and future litigation may involve significant costs and adversely affect our business. we are party to various lawsuits and claims arising in the normal course of business involving, among other things, contracts, intellectual property, import and export regulations, employment and environmental matters. the defense of these lawsuits may divert our management's attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. in addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. while we do not believe that any litigation in which we are currently engaged would have such an adverse effect, the outcome of litigation, including regulatory matters, is often difficult to predict, and we cannot assure that the outcome of pending or future litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. as of december 31, 2014 , we had total consolidated indebtedness of $1,068 million . our substantial level of indebtedness increases the risk that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to satisfy our debt obligations. it could also have significant effects on our business. for example, it could: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; limit our ability to borrow additional funds for such general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; restrict us from exploiting business opportunities; and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness. if we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or if future borrowings are not available to us in an amount sufficient to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs, we may be forced to: refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before it matures; sell assets; reduce or delay capital expenditures; or seek to raise additional capital. we may not be able to affect any of these actions on commercially reasonable terms or at all. our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our financial condition at the time, the restrictions in the instruments governing our outstanding indebtedness and other factors, including market conditions. our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt service obligations, or to refinance or restructure our obligations on commercially reasonable terms or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our debt agreements impose restrictions on our business, which could prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking some corporate actions and may adversely affect our ability to respond to changes in our business and manage our operations. our revolving credit agreement and the indentures governing our 5.25% senior notes due 2024 (the "2024 notes") and our 6.875% senior subordinated notes due 2019 (the "2019 notes") contain covenants that, among other things, impose significant restrictions on our business. the restrictions that these covenants place on us and our restricted subsidiaries include limitations on our and their ability to, among other things: incur additional indebtedness or issue disqualified stock or preferred stock; create liens; 25 pay dividends, make investments or make other restricted payments; sell assets; use the proceeds of permitted sales of our assets; merge, consolidate, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; enter into transactions with our affiliates; permit layering of debt (with regard to the 2019 notes); and designate subsidiaries as unrestricted. in addition, our revolving credit agreement also contains financial covenants, including covenants requiring maintenance of a consolidated leverage ratio and a consolidated interest coverage ratio, calculated in accordance with the terms of the revolving credit agreement. a breach of any covenants under any one or more of these debt agreements could result in a default, which if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all our debts. in addition, any debt agreements we enter into in the future may further limit our ability to enter into certain types of transactions. the contingent conversion features of our convertible notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition. in august 2010, we issued $400 million in aggregate principal amount of 3.875% convertible senior subordinated notes due 2017 (the convertible notes ). the convertible notes are convertible under certain circumstances, including the attainment of a last reported sale price per share of our common stock equal to 130% of the conversion price (approximately $79.72) for at least 20 trading days during a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding fiscal quarter. because our closing stock price has exceeded the 130% threshold in the fourth quarter of 2014, the convertible notes are currently convertible into shares of our common stock. as a result, the convertible notes are classified as a current liability, which, in turn, has resulted in a material reduction of our net working capital. at this time, we have elected the net settlement method to satisfy the conversion obligation, under which we will settle the principal amount of the convertible notes converted in cash and settle the excess conversion value in shares, plus cash in lieu of fractional shares. while we believe we have sufficient liquidity to repay the principal amount due through a combination of our existing cash on hand, amounts available under our credit facility and, if necessary, amounts provided through the capital markets, our use of these funds could adversely affect our results of operations and liquidity. see note 8 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for a further discussion regarding the conversion terms of the convertible notes. the convertible note hedge transactions and warrant transactions entered into in connection with the issuance of our convertible notes may adversely affect the value of our common stock. in connection with our issuance of the convertible notes, we entered into privately negotiated hedge transactions with two counterparties, which we refer to as the "hedge counterparties." the hedge transactions cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, the number of shares of our common stock that underlie the convertible notes and are expected to reduce the dilution with respect to our common stock and/or cash payments that we may be required to make upon conversion of the convertible notes. separately, we also entered into privately negotiated warrant transactions relating to the same number of shares of our common stock with the hedge counterparties with a strike price of $74.648, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, pursuant to which we may be obligated to issue shares of our common stock. the warrant transactions could have a dilutive effect with respect to our common stock or, if we so elect, obligate us to make cash payments to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock exceeds the strike price of the warrants on any expiration date of the warrants. in addition, under applicable accounting guidance, changes in the share price of our common stock can have a significant impact on the number of shares that we must include in the fully diluted earnings per share calculation with respect to the convertible notes and warrants, which, in turn, could impact our reported financial results. based on the average market price of our common stock during 2014 , 1.9 million shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants were included in the total diluted shares outstanding for the year ended december 31, 2014 . for additional information, see financing arrangements under item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations included in this annual report on form 10-k. 26 in connection with establishing their positions under the convertible note hedge transactions and the warrant transactions, the hedge counterparties (and/or their affiliates) entered into various cash-settled over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to our common stock concurrently with, or shortly following, the pricing of the convertible notes. the hedge counterparties (and/or their affiliates) may, in their sole discretion, with or without notice, modify their hedge positions from time to time (and are likely to do so during any conversion period related to the conversion of the convertible notes) by entering into or unwinding various over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to shares of our common stock, and/or by purchasing or selling shares of our common stock or convertible notes in privately negotiated transactions and/or open market transactions. the effect, if any, of these transactions and activities on the market price of our common stock will depend in part on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time, but any of these activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock. we are subject to counterparty risk with respect to the convertible note hedge transactions. each hedge counterparty is a financial institution or the affiliate of a financial institution, and we will be subject to the risk that one or more hedge counterparties may default under the convertible note hedge transactions. our exposure to the credit risk of each hedge counterparty is not secured by any collateral. if a hedge counterparty becomes subject to insolvency proceedings, we will become an unsecured creditor in those proceedings with a claim equal to our exposure at that time under the convertible note hedge transaction with that hedge counterparty. our exposure will depend on many factors but, generally, the increase in our exposure will be correlated to the increase in the market price of our common stock and in the volatility of our common stock. in addition, upon a default by a hedge counterparty, we may suffer adverse tax consequences and dilution with respect to our common stock. we can provide no assurances as to the financial stability or viability of the hedge counterparties. we may issue additional shares of our common stock or instruments convertible into our common stock, including in connection with conversions of our convertible notes, which could lower the price of our common stock. we are not restricted from issuing additional shares of our common stock or other instruments convertible into our common stock. as of december 31, 2014 , we had outstanding approximately 41.4 million shares of our common stock, options to purchase approximately 1.2 million shares of our common stock (of which approximately 0.6 million were vested as of that date), approximately 0.3 million of restricted stock awards (which are expected to vest over the next three years) and approximately 20,000 shares of our common stock to be distributed from our deferred compensation plan. in addition, as of december 31, 2014 , 20.4 million shares of our common stock are reserved for issuance upon the exercise of stock options, upon conversion of the convertible notes and upon the exercise of the warrants issued in connection with the convertible notes. we cannot predict the size of future issuances or the effect, if any, that they may have on the market price for our common stock. if we issue additional shares of our common stock or instruments convertible into our common stock, such issuances may materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock. furthermore, the exercise of some or all of the outstanding stock options and warrants, and the conversion of some or all of the convertible notes may dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders, and any sales in the public market of such shares of our common stock issuable upon any exercise of stock options or warrants, or conversion of the convertible notes could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. in addition, the issuance and sale, including through exercise of stock options and warrants, of substantial amounts of common stock or conversion of the convertible notes into shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock. 27 disruption of critical information systems or material breaches in the security of our systems may adversely affect our business and customer relationships. we rely on information technology systems to process, transmit, and store electronic information in our day-to-day operations. we also rely on our technology infrastructure, among other functions, to interact with customers and suppliers, fulfill orders and bill, collect and make payments, ship products, provide support to customers, fulfill contractual obligations and otherwise conduct business. our internal information technology systems, as well as those systems maintained by third-party providers, may be subjected to computer viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized access attempts, and cyber-attacks, any of which could result in data leaks or otherwise compromise our confidential or proprietary information and disrupt our operations. cyber-attacks are becoming more sophisticated and frequent, and there can be no assurance that our protective measures will prevent security breaches that could have a significant impact on our business, reputation and financial results. if we fail to monitor, maintain or protect our information technology systems and data integrity effectively or fail to anticipate, plan for or manage significant disruptions to these systems, we could, among other things, lose customers, have difficulty preventing fraud, have disputes with customers, physicians and other health care professionals, be subject to regulatory sanctions or penalties, incur expenses or lose revenues or suffer other adverse consequences. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. new regulations related to conflict minerals may increase our costs and adversely affect our business. the sec has promulgated rules under the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act regarding disclosure of the use of tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, known as "conflict minerals," included in components of products either manufactured by public companies or for which public companies have contracted to manufacture. these rules require that we undertake due diligence efforts to determine whether such minerals originated from the democratic republic of congo (the drc ) or an adjoining country and whether such minerals helped finance armed conflict in the drc. we filed our first conflict minerals report in june 2014. as discussed in the report, we have determined that certain of our products contain the specified minerals, and we are in the process of attempting to identify where such minerals originated. we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the sources of the specified minerals used in our products. in addition, these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products. our customers may require our products be free of conflict minerals, and our revenues and margins may be adversely affected if we are unable to provide assurances to our customers that our products are drc conflict free (generally, the product does not contain conflict minerals originating in the drc or an adjoining country that directly or indirectly finance or benefit specified armed groups) due to, among other things, our inability to procure conflict free minerals at a reasonable price, or at all, or if we are unable to pass through any increased costs associated with meeting these demands. we also may face reputational challenges if our due diligence efforts do not enable us to verify the origins of all conflict minerals or to determine that any conflict minerals used in products we manufacture or in products manufactured by others for us are drc conflict-free. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. we are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things: the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; and the health and safety of our employees. these laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. in 2014 , our costs related to compliance with, or liabilities under these laws totaled $1.3 million . we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances, which may include claims for personal injury or cleanup, will not exceed our estimates or will not adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 28 our workforce covered by collective bargaining and similar agreements could cause interruptions in our provision of products and services. as of december 31, 2014 , approximately 8% of our employees in the united states and in other countries were covered by union contracts or collective-bargaining arrangements. in addition, for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2014 , approximately 7% of our net revenues were generated by operations for which a significant part of our workforce is covered by collective bargaining agreements and similar agreements. it is likely that a portion of our workforce will remain covered by collective bargaining and similar agreements for the foreseeable future. strikes or work stoppages could occur that would adversely impact our relationships with our customers and our ability to conduct our business. we may not pay dividends on our common stock in the future. holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends only as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. the declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including our financial condition, earnings, compliance with debt instruments, legal requirements and other factors as our board of directors deems relevant. we cannot assure you that our cash dividend will not be reduced, or eliminated, in the future. certain provisions of our corporate governing documents, delaware law and our convertible notes could discourage, delay, or prevent a merger or acquisition. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock. for example, our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to determine the number of shares in a series, the consideration, dividend rights, liquidation preferences, terms of redemption, conversion or exchange rights and voting rights, if any, of unissued series of preferred stock, without any vote or action by our stockholders. thus, our board of directors can authorize and issue shares of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting or other rights of holders of our common stock. we are also subject to section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our common stock. these provisions could have the effect of delaying or deterring a third party from acquiring us even if an acquisition might be in the best interest of our stockholders, and accordingly could reduce the market price of our common stock. certain provisions in the convertible notes and the indentures governing the convertible notes, the 2024 notes and the 2019 notes could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. for example, if an acquisition event constitutes a fundamental change, as defined in the indenture governing the convertible notes, holders of the convertible notes will have the right to require us to purchase their notes in cash. similarly, if an acquisition event constitutes a change of control as defined in the indenture governing the 2024 notes and the 2019 notes, holders of such notes will have the right to require us to purchase their notes in cash. in addition, if an acquisition event constitutes a make-whole fundamental change, as defined in the indenture governing the convertible notes, we may be required, under certain circumstances, to increase the conversion rate for holders who convert their notes in connection with such acquisition event. in either case, and in other cases, our obligations under the convertible notes, the 2024 notes and the 2019 notes could increase the cost of acquiring us or otherwise discourage a third party from acquiring us or removing incumbent management, and accordingly could reduce the market price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk we are exposed to certain financial risks, specifically fluctuations in market interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and, to a lesser extent, commodity prices. we use derivative financial instruments to manage or reduce the impact of some of these risks. we do not enter into derivative instruments for trading purposes. we are also exposed to changes in the market traded price of our common stock as it influences the valuation of stock options and their effect on earnings. interest rate risk we are exposed to changes in interest rates as a result of our borrowing activities and our cash balances. the table below provides information regarding the amortization and related interest rates by year of maturity for our fixed and variable rate debt obligations. variable interest rates on december 31, 2014 were determined using a base rate of the one-month libor rate plus the applicable spread. year of maturity 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 thereafter total (dollars in thousands) fixed rate debt $ 399,898 $ $ $ $ 250,000 $ 250,000 $ 899,898 average interest rate 3.875 % % % % 6.875 % 5.250 % 5.090 % variable rate debt $ 4,700 $ $ $ 200,000 $ $ $ 204,700 average interest rate 0.921 % % % 1.915 % % % 1.893 % a change of 1.0% in variable interest rates would increase or decrease annual interest expense by approximately $1.3 million based on our outstanding debt as of december 31, 2014 . 60 foreign currency risk we are exposed to currency fluctuations in connection with transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of certain subsidiaries. we had no open forward contracts as of december 31, 2014 or 2013. in january 2015 and 2014, we entered into forward contracts with several major financial institutions to hedge a portion of the projected cash flows from these exposures. these are primarily contracts to buy or sell a foreign currency against the u.s. dollar or the euro. the following table provides information regarding our open forward currency contracts entered into in january 2015, which mature during 2015 . forward contract notional amounts presented below are expressed in the stated currencies. the total notional amount for all contracts is approximately $142.0 million . forward currency contracts: buy/(sell) (in thousands) united states dollars (8,143 ) euros (15,673 ) british pound (8,064 ) mexican peso 342,063 czech koruna 391,385 south african rand (53,892 ) malaysian ringgits 107,723 canadian dollars (19,847 ) australian dollars (13,071 ) singapore dollars (13,284 )risk factors in addition to the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k, you should carefully consider the following factors which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or stock price. the risks below are not the only risks we face. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or stock price. we face strong competition. our failure to successfully develop and market new products could adversely affect our business. the medical device industry is highly competitive. we compete with many domestic and foreign medical device companies ranging from small start-up enterprises that might sell only a single or limited number of competitive products or compete only in a specific market segment, to companies that are larger and more established than us, have a broad range of competitive products, participate in numerous markets and have access to significantly greater financial and marketing resources than we do. in addition, the medical device industry is characterized by extensive product research and development and rapid technological advances. the future success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability to design and manufacture new competitive products and enhance existing products. our product development efforts may require us to make substantial investments. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop new products, enhance existing products or achieve market acceptance of our products, due to, among other things, our inability to: identify viable new products; obtain adequate intellectual property protection; gain market acceptance of new products; or successfully obtain regulatory approvals. in addition, our competitors currently may be developing, or may develop in the future, products that provide better features, clinical outcomes or economic value than those that we currently offer or subsequently develop. our failure to successfully develop and market new products or enhance existing products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our customers depend on third party coverage and reimbursements and the failure of healthcare programs to provide coverage and reimbursement, or the reduction in reimbursement levels, for our medical products could adversely affect us. the ability of our customers to obtain coverage and reimbursement for our products is important to our business. demand for many of our existing and new medical products is, and will continue to be, affected by the extent to which government healthcare programs and private health insurers reimburse our customers for patients' medical expenses in the countries where we do business. even when we develop or acquire a promising new product, demand for the product may be limited unless reimbursement approval is obtained from private and governmental third party payors. internationally, healthcare reimbursement systems vary significantly. in some countries, medical centers are constrained by fixed budgets, regardless of the extent of their patient treatment. other countries require application for, and approval of, government or third party reimbursement. without both favorable coverage determinations by, and the financial support of, government and third party insurers, the market for many of our medical products would be adversely affected. we cannot be sure that third party payors will maintain the current level of coverage and reimbursement to our customers for use of our existing products. adverse coverage determinations or any reduction in the amount of reimbursement could harm our business by reducing customers' selection of our products and the prices they are willing to pay. in addition, as a result of their purchasing power, third party payors are implementing cost cutting measures such as seeking discounts, price reductions or other incentives from medical products suppliers and imposing limitations on coverage and reimbursement for medical technologies and procedures. these trends could compel us to reduce prices for our products and could cause a decrease in the size of the market or a potential increase in competition that could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 we may not be successful in achieving expected operating efficiencies and sustaining or improving operating expense reductions, and may experience business disruptions associated with restructuring, facility consolidations, realignment, cost reduction and other strategic initiatives. over the past several years we have implemented a number of restructuring, realignment and cost reduction initiatives, including facility consolidations, organizational realignments and reductions in our workforce. while we have realized some efficiencies from these actions, we may not realize the benefits of these initiatives to the extent we anticipated. further, such benefits may be realized later than expected, and the ongoing difficulties in implementing these measures may be greater than anticipated, which could cause us to incur additional costs or result in business disruptions. in addition, if these measures are not successful or sustainable, we may be compelled to undertake additional realignment and cost reduction efforts, which could result in significant additional charges. moreover, if our restructuring and realignment efforts prove ineffective, our ability to achieve our other strategic and business plan goals may be adversely affected. in addition, as part of our efforts to increase operating efficiencies, we have implemented a number of initiatives over the past several years to consolidate our enterprise resource planning, or erp, systems. for example, between 2012 and 2013, we migrated our arrow business from a separate erp system to our principal erp system. to date, we have not experienced any significant disruptions to our business or operations in connection with these initiatives. however, as we continue our efforts to further consolidate our erp systems, we could experience business disruptions, which could adversely affect customer relationships and divert the attention of management away from daily operations. in addition, any delays in the implementation of these initiatives could cause us to incur additional unexpected costs. should we experience such difficulties, our business, cash flows and results of operations could be adversely affected. we are subject to extensive government regulation, which may require us to incur significant expenses to ensure compliance. our failure to comply with those regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our products are classified as medical devices and are subject to extensive regulation in the united states by the fda and by comparable government agencies in other countries. the regulations govern, among other things, the development, design, approval, manufacturing, labeling, importing and exporting and sale and marketing of many of our products. moreover, these regulations are subject to future change. in the united states, before we can market a new medical device, or a new use of, or claim for, or significant modification to, an existing product, we generally must first receive either 510(k) or de novo clearance or approval of a premarket approval application, or pma, from the fda. similarly, most major markets for medical devices outside the united states also require clearance, approval or compliance with certain standards before a product can be commercially marketed. the process of obtaining regulatory clearances and approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the fda and certain foreign governmental authorities, can be costly and time consuming, and clearances and approvals might not be granted for new products on a timely basis, if at all. in addition, once a device has been cleared or approved, a new clearance or approval may be required before the device may be modified or its labeling changed. furthermore, the fda or a foreign governmental authority may make its review and clearance or approval process more rigorous, which could require us to generate additional clinical or other data, and expend more time and effort, in obtaining future product clearances or approvals. the regulatory clearance and approval process may result in, among other things, delayed realization of product revenues, substantial additional costs or limitations on indicated uses of products, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. even after a product has received marketing approval or clearance, such product approval or clearance can be withdrawn or limited due to unforeseen problems with the device or issues relating to its application. failure to comply with applicable regulations could lead to adverse effects on our business, which could include: partial suspension or total shutdown of manufacturing; product shortages; delays in product manufacturing; warning or untitled letters; fines or civil penalties; delays in obtaining new regulatory clearances or approvals; 16 withdrawal or suspension of required clearances, approvals or licenses; product seizures or recalls; injunctions; criminal prosecution; advisories or other field actions; operating restrictions; and prohibitions against exporting of products to, or importing products from, countries outside the united states. we could be required to expend significant financial and human resources to remediate failures to comply with applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines. in addition, civil and criminal penalties, including exclusion under medicaid or medicare, could result from regulatory violations. any one or more of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. medical devices are cleared or approved for one or more specific intended uses and performance claims must be adequately substantiated. promoting a device for an off-label use or making misleading or unsubstantiated claims could result in government enforcement action. furthermore, our facilities are subject to periodic inspection by the fda and other federal, state and foreign government authorities, which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to certain regulations, including the fda's quality system regulation, which requires periodic audits, design controls, quality control testing and documentation procedures, as well as complaint evaluations and investigation. in addition, any facilities assembling convenience kits that include drug components and are registered as drug repackaging establishments are also subject to current good manufacturing practices requirements for drugs. the fda also requires the reporting of certain adverse events and product malfunctions and may require the reporting of recalls or other field safety corrective actions. issues identified through such inspections and reports may result in fda enforcement action through any of the actions discussed above. moreover, issues identified through such inspections and reports may require significant resources to resolve. we are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse laws, regulation and enforcement; our failure to comply with those laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse regulation and enforcement by the federal government and the governments of those states and foreign countries in which we conduct our business. the laws that may affect our ability to operate include: the federal healthcare anti-kickback statute, which, among other things, prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully offering or paying remuneration to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as medicare and medicaid, or soliciting payment for such referrals, purchases, orders and recommendations; federal false claims laws which, among other things, prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, false or fraudulent claims for payment from the federal government, including medicare, medicaid or other third-party payors; the federal health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996 ( hipaa ), which prohibits schemes to defraud any healthcare benefit program and false statements relating to healthcare matters; and state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers. if our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws or any other government regulations, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, the exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs and imprisonment of personnel, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. the risk of our being found to have violated these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. 17 further, the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act (collectively, the affordable care act ), imposed annual reporting and disclosure requirements on device manufacturers for any transfer of value made or distributed to physicians or teaching hospitals. our first report was submitted in 2014, and the reported information was made publicly available in a searchable format in september 2014. in addition, device manufacturers are required to report and disclose any investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members during the preceding calendar year. failure to submit required information may result in civil monetary penalties for each payment, transfer of value or ownership or investment interests not reported in an annual submission, up to an aggregate of $150,000 per year (and up to an aggregate of $1 million per year for knowing failures ). in addition, there has been a recent trend of increased federal and state regulation of payments made to healthcare providers. some states, such as california, connecticut, nevada and massachusetts, mandate implementation of compliance programs that include the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation for consulting and other services, and other remuneration to healthcare providers. the shifting commercial compliance environment and the need to build and maintain robust and expandable systems to comply with the different compliance and/or reporting requirements among a number of jurisdictions increases the possibility that we may inadvertently violate one or more of the requirements, resulting in increased compliance costs that could adversely impact our results of operations. we may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability and warranty claims, as well as product recalls, any of which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. furthermore, as a medical device company, our reputation may be damaged if one or more of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective. our businesses expose us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture and marketing of our products. in particular, our medical device products are often used in surgical and intensive care settings with seriously ill patients. in addition, many of our products are designed to be implanted in the human body for varying periods of time. product defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks with respect to products we manufacture or sell could result in patient injury or death. in addition, in connection with the divestitures of our former non-medical businesses, we agreed to retain certain liabilities related to those businesses, which include, among other things, liability for products manufactured prior to the date on which we completed the sale of the business. product liability and warranty claims often involve very large or indeterminate amounts, including punitive damages. the magnitude of potential losses from product liability lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time, and the related legal defense costs may be significant. we could experience material warranty or product liability losses in the future and incur significant costs to defend these claims. in addition, if any of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective, we may voluntarily participate, or be required by regulatory authorities to participate, in a recall of that product. in the event of a recall, we may lose sales and be exposed to individual or class-action litigation claims. moreover, negative publicity regarding a quality or safety issue, whether accurate or inaccurate, could harm our reputation, decrease demand for our products, lead to product withdrawals or impair our ability to successfully launch and market our products in the future. product liability, warranty and recall costs may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the ongoing volatility in the domestic and global financial markets, combined with a continuation of constrained global credit markets could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we are subject to risks arising from adverse changes in general domestic and global economic conditions. the economic slowdown and disruption of credit markets that occurred in recent years led to recessionary conditions and depressed levels of consumer and commercial spending, resulting in reductions, delays or cancellations of purchases of our products and services and continues to cause disruption in the financial markets, including diminished liquidity and credit availability. we cannot predict the duration or extent of any economic recovery or the extent to which our customers will return to more typical spending behaviors. the continuation of the present broad economic trends of weak economic growth, constricted credit, public sector austerity measures in response to public budget deficits and foreign currency volatility, particularly the euro, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. additionally, our customers, particularly in the european region, have extended or delayed payments for products and services already provided, which has increased our focus on collectability with respect to our accounts receivable 18 from these customers. to date, we have not experienced an inordinate amount of payment defaults by our customers, and we have sufficient lending commitments in place to enable us to fund our foreseeable additional operating needs. however, the ongoing uncertainty in the european financial markets, combined with a continuation of constrained european credit markets creates a risk that some of our european customers and suppliers may be unable to access liquidity. as of december 31, 2015 and 2014 , our net current and long term accounts receivable in italy, spain, portugal and greece were $62.3 million and $76.2 million , respectively. in 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , net revenues from these countries were approximately 7% , 8% and 8% of total net revenues, respectively, and average days that accounts receivable from these countries were outstanding were 204 , 223 and 260 days, respectively. although we maintain allowances for doubtful accounts to cover the estimated losses which may occur when customers cannot make their required payments, we cannot be assured that we will continue to experience the same loss rate in the future given the volatility in the worldwide economy. if our allowance for doubtful accounts is insufficient to address receivables we ultimately determine are uncollectible, we would be required to incur additional charges, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. moreover, our inability to collect outstanding receivables could adversely affect our financial condition and cash flow from operations. in addition, adverse economic and financial market conditions may result in future impairment charges with respect to our goodwill and other intangible assets, which would not directly affect our liquidity but could have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results. our strategic initiatives, including acquisitions, may not produce the intended growth in revenue and operating income. our strategic initiatives include making significant investments designed to achieve revenue growth and margin improvement targets. if we do not achieve the expected benefits from these investments or otherwise fail to execute on our strategic initiatives, we may not achieve the growth improvement we are targeting and our results of operations may be adversely affected. in addition, as part of our strategy for growth, we have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions and divestitures and enter into strategic alliances such as joint ventures and joint development agreements. however, we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions or integrate acquisitions successfully, and our strategic alliances may not prove to be successful. in this regard, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration of acquired operations, technologies, services and products and the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. even if we are successful in making an acquisition, the products and technologies that we acquire may not be successful or may require significantly greater resources and investments than we originally anticipated. we could also experience negative effects on our results of operations and financial condition from acquisition-related charges, amortization of intangible assets and asset impairment charges, and other issues that could arise in connection with the acquisition of a company or business, including issues related to internal control over financial reporting, regulatory compliance and short-term effects of increased costs on results of operations. although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in any particular transaction, there can be no assurance that we will identify all such risks or the magnitude of the risks. in addition, prior acquisitions have resulted, and future acquisitions could result, in the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness and other expenses. future acquisitions may also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities. there can be no assurance that difficulties encountered with acquisitions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. health care reform may have a material adverse effect on our industry and our business. political, economic and regulatory developments have effected fundamental changes in the healthcare industry. the affordable care act substantially changed the way health care is financed by both government and private insurers. it also encourages improvements in the quality of health care products and services and significantly impacts the united states pharmaceutical and medical device industries. among other things, the affordable care act: established a 2.3% excise tax on sales of medical devices with respect to any entity that manufactures or imports specified medical devices offered for sale in the united states, although this tax has been suspended for 2016 and 2017 as a result of the enactment of the consolidated appropriations act of 2016; established a new patient-centered outcomes research institute to oversee, identify priorities in and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research; 19 implemented payment system reforms, including a national pilot program to encourage hospitals, physicians and other providers to improve the coordination, quality and efficiency of certain health care services through bundled payment models; and created an independent payment advisory board that will submit recommendations to reduce medicare spending if projected medicare spending exceeds a specified growth rate. in 2015 , 2014 and 2013, we recorded expenses of $10.2 million , $12.7 million and $11.5 million , respectively, with respect to the medical device excise tax. while the excise tax has been suspended in 2016 and 2017, unless the suspension is extended, we will again be subject to the excise tax in 2018. we cannot predict at this time the full impact of the affordable care act or other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to risks associated with our non-united states operations. we have significant manufacturing and distribution facilities, research and development facilities, sales personnel and customer support operations in a number of countries outside the united states, including canada, belgium, the czech republic, france, germany, ireland, malaysia, mexico, and singapore. as of december 31, 2015, 76% of our full-time and temporary employees were employed in countries outside of the united states. as of december 31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013, approximately 43% , 45% and 37%, respectively, of our net property, plant and equipment was located outside the united states. in addition, for the years ended december 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 approximately 47% , 50% and 50%, respectively, of our net revenues (based on the teleflex facility generating the sale) were derived from operations outside the united states. our international operations are subject to risks inherent in doing business outside the united states, including: exchange controls, currency restrictions and fluctuations in currency values; trade protection measures; potentially costly and burdensome import or export requirements; laws and business practices that favor local companies; changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and procedures; subsidies or increased access to capital for firms that currently are or may emerge as competitors in countries in which we have operations; substantial foreign tax liabilities, including potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; restrictions and taxes related to the repatriation of foreign earnings; differing labor regulations; additional united states and foreign government controls or regulations; difficulties in the protection of intellectual property; and unsettled political and economic conditions and possible terrorist attacks against american interests. in addition, the united states foreign corrupt practices act (the fcpa ) and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws in non-united states jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-united states officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. the fcpa also imposes accounting standards and requirements on publicly traded united states corporations and their foreign affiliates, which, among other things, are intended to prevent the diversion of corporate funds to the payment of bribes and other improper payments, and to prevent the establishment of off the books slush funds from which such improper payments can be made. because of the predominance of government-sponsored health care systems around the world, many of our customer relationships outside of the united states are with government entities and are therefore subject to such anti-bribery laws. our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. however, we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced government corruption to some degree. despite meaningful measures that we undertake to facilitate lawful conduct, which include training and compliance programs and internal control policies and procedures, we may not always prevent reckless or criminal acts by our employees, distributors or other agents. in addition, we may be exposed to liability due to pre-acquisition conduct of employees, distributors or other agents of businesses or operations we may acquire. violations of anti-bribery laws, or allegations of such violations, could 20 disrupt our operations, involve significant management distraction and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we also could be subject to severe penalties, including criminal and civil penalties, disgorgement, further changes or enhancements to our procedures, policies and controls, personnel changes and other remedial actions. furthermore, we are subject to the export controls and economic embargo rules and regulations of the united states, including the export administration regulations and trade sanctions against embargoed countries, which are administered by the office of foreign assets control within the department of the treasury, as well as other laws and regulations administered by the department of commerce. these regulations limit our ability to market, sell, distribute or otherwise transfer our products or technology to prohibited countries or persons. while we train our employees and contractually obligate our distributors to comply with these regulations, we cannot assure that a violation will not occur, whether knowingly or inadvertently. failure to comply with these rules and regulations may result in substantial civil and criminal penalties, including fines and the disgorgement of profits, the imposition of a court-appointed monitor, the denial of export privileges and debarment from participation in united states government contracts. the risks relating to our foreign operations may have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. foreign currency exchange rate, commodity price and interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. products manufactured in, and sold into, foreign markets represent a significant portion of our operations. our consolidated financial statements reflect translation of financial statements denominated in non-united states currencies to united states dollars, our reporting currency, as well as the foreign currency exchange gains and losses resulting from the remeasurement of assets and liabilities as well as transactions denominated in currencies other than the primary currency of the country in which the entity operates, which we refer to as "non-functional currencies." when the united states dollar strengthens or weakens in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries in which we sell or manufacture our products, such as the euro, our united states dollar-reported revenue and income will fluctuate. although we have entered into forward contracts with several major financial institutions to hedge a portion of our monetary assets and liabilities and projected cash flows denominated in non-functional currencies in order to reduce the effects of currency rate fluctuations, changes in the relative values of currencies may, in some instances, have a significant effect on our results of operations. many of our products have significant plastic resin content. we also use quantities of other commodities, such as aluminum and steel. increases in the prices of these commodities could increase the costs of our products and services. we may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers, particularly with respect to those products we sell under group purchase agreements, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. increases in interest rates may adversely affect the financial health of our customers and suppliers and thus adversely affect their ability to buy our products and supply the components or raw materials we need. in addition, our borrowing costs could be adversely affected if interest rates increase. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. fluctuations in our effective tax rate and changes to tax laws may adversely affect us. as a global company, we are subject to taxation in numerous countries, states and other jurisdictions. our effective tax rate is derived from a combination of applicable tax rates in the various countries, states and other jurisdictions in which we operate. in preparing our financial statements, we estimate the amount of tax that will become payable in each of these jurisdictions. our effective tax rate may, however, differ from the estimated amount due to numerous factors, including a change in the mix of our profitability from country to country and changes in tax laws. any of these factors could cause us to experience an effective tax rate significantly different from previous periods or our current expectations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. 21 an interruption in our manufacturing or distribution operations or our supply of raw materials may adversely affect our business. many of our key products are manufactured at or distributed from single locations, and the availability of alternate facilities is limited. if operations at one or more of our facilities is suspended due to natural disasters or other events, we may not be able to timely manufacture or distribute one or more of our products at previous levels or at all. furthermore, our ability to establish replacement facilities or to substitute suppliers may be delayed due to regulations and requirements of the fda and other regulatory authorities regarding the manufacture of our products. in addition, in the event of delays or cancellations in shipments of raw materials by our suppliers, we may not be able to timely manufacture or supply the affected products at previous levels or at all. the manufacture of our products is highly exacting and complex, due in part to strict regulatory requirements. problems in the manufacturing process, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, defective raw materials and environmental factors, could lead to launch delays, product shortages, unanticipated costs, lost revenues and damage to our reputation. a failure to identify and address manufacturing problems prior to the release of products to our customers may also result in quality or safety issues. a reduction or interruption in manufacturing or distribution, or our inability to secure suitable alternative sources of raw materials or components, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our ability to attract, train, develop and retain key employees is important to our success. our success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to retain our key personnel, including our executive officers and other members of our senior management team. our success also depends, in part, on our ability to attract, train, develop and retain other key employees, including research and development, sales, marketing and operations personnel. we may experience difficulties in retaining executives and other employees due to many factors, including: the intense competition for skilled personnel in our industry; fluctuations in global economic and industry conditions; changes in our organizational structure; our restructuring initiatives; competitors' hiring practices; and the effectiveness of our compensation programs. our inability to attract, train, develop and retain such personnel could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we depend upon relationships with physicians and other health care professionals. research and development for some of our products is dependent on our maintaining strong working relationships with physicians and other healthcare professionals. we rely on these professionals to provide us with considerable knowledge and experience regarding the development and use of our products. physicians assist us as researchers, product consultants, inventors and public speakers. if we fail to maintain our working relationships with physicians and, as a result, no longer have the benefit of their knowledge and advice, our products may not be developed in a manner that is responsive to the needs and expectations of the professionals who use and support our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our technology is important to our success, and our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could put us at a competitive disadvantage. we rely on the patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws of the united states and other countries to protect our proprietary rights. although we own numerous united states and foreign patents and have submitted numerous patent applications, we cannot be assured that any pending patent applications will issue, or that any patents, issued or pending, will provide us with any competitive advantage or will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties. in addition, we rely on confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with employees and take other measures to protect our know-how and trade secrets. the steps we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of our technology by competitors or other persons who may copy or otherwise obtain and use these products or technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as in the united states. we cannot assure that current and former employees, contractors and other parties will not breach their 22 confidentiality agreements with us, misappropriate proprietary information, copy or otherwise obtain and use our information and proprietary technology without authorization or otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. our inability to protect our proprietary technology could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. moreover, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop know-how and trade secrets comparable to ours or develop better technology than our own, which could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we have developed. our products or processes may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to pay unexpected litigation costs or damages or prevent us from selling our products. we cannot be certain that our products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of our business, including claims of alleged infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties. any such claims, whether or not meritorious, could result in litigation and divert the efforts of our personnel. if we are found liable for infringement, we may be required to enter into licensing agreements (which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all) or to pay damages or cease making or selling certain products. we may need to redesign some of our products or processes to avoid future infringement liability. any of the foregoing events could be detrimental to our business. other pending and future litigation may involve significant costs and adversely affect our business. we are party to various lawsuits and claims arising in the normal course of business involving, among other things, contracts, intellectual property, import and export regulations, employment and environmental matters. the defense of these lawsuits may divert our management's attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. in addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. while we do not believe that any litigation in which we are currently engaged would have such an adverse effect, the outcome of litigation, including regulatory matters, is often difficult to predict, and we cannot assure that the outcome of pending or future litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. as of december 31, 2015 , we had total consolidated indebtedness of $1,066 million . our substantial level of indebtedness increases the risk that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to satisfy our debt obligations. it could also have significant effects on our business. for example, it could: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; limit our ability to borrow additional funds for such general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; restrict us from exploiting business opportunities; and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness. if we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or if future borrowings are not available to us in an amount sufficient to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs, we may be forced to: refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before it matures; sell assets; reduce or delay capital expenditures; or seek to raise additional capital. 23 we may not be able to effect any of these actions on commercially reasonable terms or at all. our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our financial condition at the time, the restrictions in the instruments governing our outstanding indebtedness and other factors, including market conditions. our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt service obligations, or to refinance or restructure our obligations on commercially reasonable terms or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our debt agreements impose restrictions on our business, which could prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking some corporate actions and may adversely affect our ability to respond to changes in our business and manage our operations. our revolving credit agreement and the indenture governing our 5.25% senior notes due 2024 (the "2024 notes") contain covenants that, among other things, impose significant restrictions on our business. the restrictions that these covenants place on us and our restricted subsidiaries include limitations on our and their ability to, among other things: incur additional indebtedness or issue disqualified stock or preferred stock; create liens; pay dividends, make investments or make other restricted payments; sell assets; use the proceeds of permitted sales of our assets; merge, consolidate, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; enter into transactions with our affiliates; and designate subsidiaries as unrestricted. in addition, our revolving credit agreement also contains financial covenants, including covenants requiring maintenance of a consolidated leverage ratio and a consolidated interest coverage ratio, calculated in accordance with the terms of the revolving credit agreement. a breach of any covenants under any one or more of these debt agreements could result in a default, which if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt. in addition, any debt agreements we enter into in the future may further limit our ability to enter into certain types of transactions. the contingent conversion features of our convertible notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition. in august 2010, we issued $400 million in aggregate principal amount of 3.875% convertible senior subordinated notes due 2017 (the convertible notes ). the convertible notes are convertible under certain circumstances, including the attainment of a last reported sale price per share of our common stock equal to 130% of the conversion price (approximately $79.72) for at least 20 trading days during a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding fiscal quarter. because our closing stock price has exceeded the 130% threshold since the fourth quarter 2013, the convertible notes are currently convertible into shares of our common stock. as a result, the convertible notes are classified as a current liability, which, in turn, has resulted in a material reduction of our net working capital. as of february 15, 2016, we have received conversion notices with respect to approximately $44.7 million in aggregate principal amount of the convertible notes. at this time, we have elected the net settlement method to satisfy the conversion obligation, under which we will settle the principal amount of the convertible notes converted in cash and settle the excess conversion value in shares, plus cash in lieu of fractional shares. while we believe we have sufficient liquidity to repay the principal amount due through a combination of our existing cash on hand, amounts available under our credit facility and, if necessary, amounts provided through the capital markets, our use of these funds could adversely affect our results of operations and liquidity. see note 8 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for a further discussion regarding the conversion terms of the convertible notes. 24 the convertible note hedge transactions and warrant transactions entered into in connection with the issuance of our convertible notes may adversely affect the value of our common stock. in connection with our issuance of the convertible notes, we entered into privately negotiated hedge transactions with two counterparties, which we refer to as the "hedge counterparties." the hedge transactions cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, the number of shares of our common stock that underlie the convertible notes and are expected to reduce the dilution with respect to our common stock and/or cash payments that we may be required to make upon conversion of the convertible notes. separately, we also entered into privately negotiated warrant transactions relating to the same number of shares of our common stock with the hedge counterparties with an exercise price of $74.65, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, pursuant to which we may be obligated to issue shares of our common stock. the warrant transactions could have a dilutive effect with respect to our common stock or, if we so elect, obligate us to make cash payments to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock exceeds the exercise price of the warrants on any expiration date of the warrants. in addition, under applicable accounting guidance, changes in the share price of our common stock can have a significant impact on the number of shares that we must include in the fully diluted earnings per share calculation with respect to the convertible notes and warrants, which, in turn, could impact our reported financial results. based on the average market price of our common stock during 2015 , 2.7 million shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants were included in the total diluted shares outstanding for the year ended december 31, 2015 . for additional information, see financing arrangements under item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations included in this annual report on form 10-k. in connection with establishing their positions under the convertible note hedge transactions and the warrant transactions, the hedge counterparties (and/or their affiliates) entered into various cash-settled over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to our common stock concurrently with, or shortly following, the pricing of the convertible notes. the hedge counterparties (and/or their affiliates) may, in their sole discretion, with or without notice, modify their hedge positions from time to time (and are likely to do so during any conversion period related to the conversion of the convertible notes) by entering into or unwinding various over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to shares of our common stock, and/or by purchasing or selling shares of our common stock or convertible notes in privately negotiated transactions and/or open market transactions. the effect, if any, of these transactions and activities on the market price of our common stock will depend in part on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time, but any of these activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock. we are subject to counterparty risk with respect to the convertible note hedge transactions. each hedge counterparty is a financial institution or the affiliate of a financial institution, and we will be subject to the risk that one or more hedge counterparties may default under the convertible note hedge transactions. our exposure to the credit risk of each hedge counterparty is not secured by any collateral. if a hedge counterparty becomes subject to insolvency proceedings, we will become an unsecured creditor in those proceedings with a claim equal to our exposure at that time under the convertible note hedge transaction with that hedge counterparty. our exposure will depend on many factors but, generally, the increase in our exposure will be correlated to the increase in the market price of our common stock and in the volatility of our common stock. in addition, upon a default by a hedge counterparty, we may suffer adverse tax consequences and dilution with respect to our common stock. we can provide no assurances as to the financial stability or viability of the hedge counterparties. we may issue additional shares of our common stock or instruments convertible into our common stock, including in connection with conversions of our convertible notes, which could lower the price of our common stock. we are not restricted from issuing additional shares of our common stock or other instruments convertible into our common stock. as of december 31, 2015 , we had outstanding approximately 41.6 million shares of our common stock, options to purchase approximately 1.4 million shares of our common stock (of which approximately 0.8 million were vested as of that date), restricted stock units covering approximately 0.3 million shares of our common stock (which are expected to vest over the next three years) and approximately 14,000 shares of our common stock to be distributed from our deferred compensation plan. as of december 31, 2015 , 19.9 million shares of our common stock are reserved for issuance upon the exercise of stock options, upon conversion of the convertible notes and upon the exercise of the warrants issued in connection with the convertible notes. we cannot predict the size of future issuances or the effect, if any, that they may have on the market price for our common stock. 25 if we issue additional shares of our common stock or instruments convertible into our common stock, such issuances may materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock. furthermore, our issuance of shares following the exercise of some or all of the outstanding stock options and warrants, the vested of restricted stock units and the conversion of some or all of the convertible notes will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders, and any sales in the public market of such shares of our common stock could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. in addition, the issuance and sale of substantial amounts of our common stock, including common stock issued as a result of the exercise of stock options and warrants, vesting of restricted stock units or conversion of the convertible notes, could depress the price of our common stock. disruption of critical information systems or material breaches in the security of our systems may adversely affect our business and customer relationships. we rely on information technology systems to process, transmit, and store electronic information in our day-to-day operations. we also rely on our technology infrastructure, among other functions, to interact with customers and suppliers, fulfill orders and bill, collect and make payments, ship products, provide support to customers, fulfill contractual obligations and otherwise conduct business. our internal information technology systems, as well as those systems maintained by third-party providers, may be subjected to computer viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized access attempts, and cyber-attacks, any of which could result in data leaks or otherwise compromise our confidential or proprietary information and disrupt our operations. cyber-attacks are becoming more sophisticated and frequent, and there can be no assurance that our protective measures will prevent security breaches that could have a significant impact on our business, reputation and financial results. if we fail to monitor, maintain or protect our information technology systems and data integrity effectively or fail to anticipate, plan for or manage significant disruptions to these systems, we could, among other things, lose customers, have difficulty preventing fraud, have disputes with customers, physicians and other health care professionals, be subject to regulatory sanctions or penalties, incur expenses or lose revenues or suffer other adverse consequences. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. regulations related to conflict minerals may increase our costs and adversely affect our business. in 2012, the sec promulgated rules under the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act regarding disclosure of the use of tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, known as "conflict minerals," included in components of products either manufactured by public companies or for which public companies have contracted to manufacture. these rules require that we undertake due diligence efforts to determine whether such minerals originated from the democratic republic of congo (the drc ) or an adjoining country and, if so, whether such minerals helped finance armed conflict in the drc or an adjoining country. we filed conflict minerals report in june 2014 and june 2015. as discussed in the most recent report, we have determined that certain of our products contain the specified minerals, and we have undertaken, and continue to undertake, efforts to identify where such minerals originated. we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the sources of the specified minerals used in our products. these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products. our customers may require our products be free of conflict minerals, and our revenues and margins may be adversely affected if we are unable to provide assurances to our customers that our products are drc conflict free (generally, the product does not contain conflict minerals originating in the drc or an adjoining country that directly or indirectly finance or benefit specified armed groups) due to, among other things, our inability to procure conflict free minerals at a reasonable price, or at all. moreover, we may be adversely affected if we are unable to pass through any increased costs associated with meeting customer demands that we provide drc conflict free products. we also may face reputational challenges if our due diligence efforts do not enable us to verify the origins of all conflict minerals or to determine that any conflict minerals used in products we manufacture or in products manufactured by others for us are drc conflict-free. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. we are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things: the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; and the health and safety of our employees. 26 these laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances, which may include claims for personal injury or cleanup, will not exceed our estimates or will not adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our workforce covered by collective bargaining and similar agreements could cause interruptions in our provision of products and services. as of december 31, 2015 , approximately 4% of our employees in the united states and in other countries were covered by union contracts or collective bargaining arrangements. in addition, for the year ended december 31, 2015 , approximately 7% of our net revenues were generated by operations for which a significant part of our workforce is covered by collective bargaining agreements and similar agreements. it is likely that a portion of our workforce will remain covered by collective bargaining and similar agreements for the foreseeable future. strikes or work stoppages could occur that would adversely impact our relationships with our customers and our ability to conduct our business. we may not pay dividends on our common stock in the future. holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends only as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. the declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including our financial condition, earnings, compliance with debt instruments, legal requirements and other factors as our board of directors deems relevant. we cannot assure you that our cash dividend will not be reduced, or eliminated, in the future. certain provisions of our corporate governing documents, delaware law and our convertible notes could discourage, delay, or prevent a merger or acquisition. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock. for example, our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to determine the number of shares in a series, the consideration, dividend rights, liquidation preferences, terms of redemption, conversion or exchange rights and voting rights, if any, of unissued series of preferred stock, without any vote or action by our stockholders. thus, our board of directors can authorize and issue shares of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting or other rights of holders of our common stock. we are also subject to section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our common stock. these provisions could have the effect of delaying or deterring a third party from acquiring us even if an acquisition might be in the best interest of our stockholders, and accordingly could reduce the market price of our common stock. certain provisions in the convertible notes and the indentures governing the convertible notes and the 2024 notes could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. for example, if an acquisition event constitutes a fundamental change, as defined in the indenture governing the convertible notes, holders of the convertible notes will have the right to require us to purchase their notes in cash. similarly, if an acquisition event constitutes a change of control as defined in the indenture governing the 2024 notes, holders of such notes will have the right to require us to purchase their notes in cash. in addition, if an acquisition event constitutes a make-whole fundamental change, as defined in the indenture governing the convertible notes, we may be required, under certain circumstances, to increase the conversion rate for holders who convert their notes in connection with such acquisition event. in either case, and in other cases, our obligations under the convertible notes and the 2024 notes could increase the cost of acquiring us or otherwise discourage a third party from acquiring us or removing incumbent management, and accordingly could reduce the market price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk we are exposed to certain financial risks, specifically fluctuations in market interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and, to a lesser extent, commodity prices. we use derivative financial instruments to manage or reduce the impact of some of these risks. we do not enter into derivative instruments for trading purposes. we are also exposed to changes in the market traded price of our common stock as it influences the valuation of stock options and their effect on earnings. interest rate risk we are exposed to changes in interest rates as a result of our borrowing activities and our cash balances. the table below provides information regarding the amortization and related interest rates by year of maturity for our fixed and variable rate debt obligations. variable interest rates on december 31, 2015 were determined using a base rate of the one-month libor rate plus the applicable spread. year of maturity 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 thereafter total (dollars in thousands) fixed rate debt (1) $ 399,641 $ $ $ $ $ 250,000 $ 649,641 average interest rate 3.875 % % % % % 5.250 % 4.404 % variable rate debt $ 43,300 $ $ 396,000 $ $ $ $ 439,300 average interest rate 1.180 % % 2.174 % % % % 2.076 % (1) the convertible notes, which mature in 2017, are shown as maturing in 2016 because our stock price has exceeded the amount specified to enable conversion. see note 8 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional details regarding the convertible notes. a change of 1.0% in variable interest rates would increase or decrease annual interest expense by approximately $2.8 million based on our outstanding debt as of december 31, 2015 . foreign currency risk we are exposed to currency fluctuations in connection with transactions, as well as monetary assets and liabilities, denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of certain subsidiaries. we enter into forward contracts with several major financial institutions to hedge the risk associated with these exposures, which are primarily contracts to buy or sell a foreign currency against the u.s. dollar or the euro. the contracts entered into to hedge transactions denominated in non-functional currencies are designated as cash flow hedges. the contracts to hedge monetary asset and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies are not designated as cash flow, fair value or net investment hedges. the following table provides information regarding our open foreign currency forward contracts at december 31, 2015, which mature during 2016 . as of december 31, 2015, the total notional amount for the designated and non-designated contracts, expressed in u.s. dollars, is $49.5 million and $69.1 million , respectively. forward contract notional amounts presented below are expressed in the stated currencies. 56 forward currency contracts: buy/(sell) (in thousands) designated non-designated australian dollar (1,125 ) (8,550 ) british pound (3,005 ) (2,463 ) canadian dollar (3,186 ) chinese renminbi (65,660 ) (87,427 ) czech koruna 170,145 72,527 euro (492 ) 49,496 japanese yen (2,196,652 ) korean won (3,008,613 ) malaysian ringgit 27,513 9,715 mexican peso 183,335 (4,304 ) singapore dollar 5,145 south african rand (25,625 ) (40,193 ) swiss franc (1,455 ) united states dollar (9,177 ) (10,335 ) we had no open forward contracts as of december 31, 2014.risk factors in addition to the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k, you should carefully consider the following factors which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or stock price. the risks below are not the only risks we face. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or stock price. we face strong competition. our failure to successfully develop and market new products could adversely affect our business. the medical device industry is highly competitive. we compete with many domestic and foreign medical device companies ranging from small start-up enterprises that might sell only a single or limited number of competitive products or compete only in a specific market segment, to companies that are larger and more established than us, have a broad range of competitive products, participate in numerous markets and have access to significantly greater financial and marketing resources than we do. in addition, the medical device industry is characterized by extensive product research and development and rapid technological advances. the future success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability to design and manufacture new competitive products and enhance existing products. our product development efforts may require us to make substantial investments. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop new products, enhance existing products or achieve market acceptance of our products, due to, among other things, our inability to: identify viable new products; obtain adequate intellectual property protection; 15 gain market acceptance of new products; or successfully obtain regulatory approvals. in addition, our competitors currently may be developing, or may develop in the future, products that provide better features, clinical outcomes or economic value than those that we currently offer or subsequently develop. our failure to successfully develop and market new products or enhance existing products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our customers depend on third party coverage and reimbursements and the failure of healthcare programs to provide coverage and reimbursement, or the reduction in reimbursement levels, for our medical products could adversely affect us. the ability of our customers to obtain coverage and reimbursement for our products is important to our business. demand for many of our existing and new medical products is, and will continue to be, affected by the extent to which government healthcare programs and private health insurers reimburse our customers for patients' medical expenses in the countries where we do business. even when we develop or acquire a promising new product, demand for the product may be limited unless reimbursement approval is obtained from private and government third party payors. internationally, healthcare reimbursement systems vary significantly. in some countries, medical centers are constrained by fixed budgets, regardless of the volume and nature of patient treatment. other countries require application for, and approval of, government or third party reimbursement. without both favorable coverage determinations by, and the financial support of, government and third party insurers, the market for many of our medical products would be adversely affected. in this regard, we cannot be sure that third party payors will maintain the current level of coverage and reimbursement to our customers for use of our existing products. adverse coverage determinations or any reduction in the amount of reimbursement could harm our business by discouraging customers' selection of our products and reducing the prices they are willing to pay. in addition, as a result of their purchasing power, third party payors are implementing cost cutting measures such as seeking discounts, price reductions or other incentives from medical products suppliers and imposing limitations on coverage and reimbursement for medical technologies and procedures. these trends could compel us to reduce prices for our products and could cause a decrease in the size of the market or a potential increase in competition that could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may not be successful in achieving expected operating efficiencies and sustaining or improving operating expense reductions, and may experience business disruptions associated with restructuring, facility consolidations, realignment, cost reduction and other strategic initiatives. over the past several years we have implemented a number of restructuring, realignment and cost reduction initiatives, including facility consolidations, organizational realignments and reductions in our workforce. while we have realized some efficiencies from these actions, we may not realize the benefits of these initiatives to the extent we anticipated. further, such benefits may be realized later than expected, and the ongoing difficulties in implementing these measures may be greater than anticipated, which could cause us to incur additional costs or result in business disruptions. in addition, if these measures are not successful or sustainable, we may be compelled to undertake additional restructuring, realignment and cost reduction efforts, which could result in significant additional charges. moreover, if our restructuring, realignment and cost reduction efforts prove ineffective, our ability to achieve our other strategic and business plan goals may be adversely affected. in addition, as part of our efforts to increase operating efficiencies, we have implemented a number of initiatives over the past several years to consolidate our enterprise resource planning, or erp, systems. to date, we have not experienced any significant disruptions to our business or operations in connection with these initiatives. however, as we continue our efforts to further consolidate our erp systems, we could experience business disruptions, which could adversely affect customer relationships and divert the attention of management away from daily operations. in addition, any delays in the implementation of these initiatives could cause us to incur additional unexpected costs. should we experience such difficulties, our business, cash flows and results of operations could be adversely affected. 16 a significant portion of our united states revenues is derived from sales to distributors, and destocking activity by these distributors can adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. a significant portion of our revenues in the united states is derived from sales to distributors, who, in turn, sell our products to hospitals and other health care institutions. from time to time, these distributors may decide to reduce their levels of inventory with regard to certain of our products, which we refer to as destocking. a distributor's decision to reduce inventory levels with respect to our products may be based on a number of factors, such as distributor expectations regarding demand for a particular product, distributor buying decisions (including with respect to competing products), changes in distributor policies regarding the maintenance of inventory levels, economic conditions and other factors. for example, during the third quarter of 2016, we experienced a decline in purchases by our united states distributors that adversely affected our revenues and results of operations. we believe the reduction resulted from the distributors' expectations of a less severe 2016-2017 flu season, which resulted in reduced levels of purchasing with respect to certain of our products that are used for treatment of hospitalized patients suffering from the flu. following such instances of reduced purchases, distributors may revert to previous purchasing levels; nevertheless, we cannot assure that distributors will, in fact, increase purchases of our products in this manner. a decline in the level of product purchases by our united states distributors in the future could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations during a reporting period, and an extended decline in such product purchases could have a longer term material adverse effect. we are subject to extensive government regulation, which may require us to incur significant expenses to ensure compliance. our failure to comply with those regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our products are classified as medical devices and are subject to extensive regulation in the united states by the fda and by comparable government agencies in other countries. the regulations govern, among other things, the development, design, approval, manufacturing, labeling, importing and exporting and sale and marketing of many of our products. moreover, these regulations are subject to future change. in the united states, before we can market a new medical device, or a new use of, or claim for, or significant modification to, an existing product, we generally must first receive either 510(k) or de novo clearance or approval of a premarket approval application, or pma, from the fda. similarly, most major markets for medical devices outside the united states also require clearance, approval or compliance with certain standards before a product can be commercially marketed. the process of obtaining regulatory clearances and approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the fda and certain foreign government authorities, can be costly and time consuming, and clearances and approvals might not be granted for new products on a timely basis, if at all. in addition, once a device has been cleared or approved, a new clearance or approval may be required before the device may be modified or its labeling changed. furthermore, the fda or a foreign government authority may make its review and clearance or approval process more rigorous, which could require us to generate additional clinical or other data, and expend more time and effort, in obtaining future product clearances or approvals. the regulatory clearance and approval process may result in, among other things, delayed realization of product revenues, substantial additional costs or limitations on indicated uses of products, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. even after a product has received marketing approval or clearance, such product approval or clearance can be withdrawn or limited due to unforeseen problems with the device or issues relating to its application. failure to comply with applicable regulations could lead to adverse effects on our business, which could include: partial suspension or total shutdown of manufacturing; product shortages; delays in product manufacturing; warning or untitled letters; fines or civil penalties; delays in obtaining new regulatory clearances or approvals; withdrawal or suspension of required clearances, approvals or licenses; product seizures or recalls; injunctions; criminal prosecution; 17 advisories or other field actions; operating restrictions; and prohibitions against exporting of products to, or importing products from, countries outside the united states. we could be required to expend significant financial and human resources to remediate failures to comply with applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines. in addition, civil and criminal penalties, including exclusion under medicaid or medicare, could result from regulatory violations. any one or more of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. medical devices are cleared or approved for one or more specific intended uses and performance claims must be adequately substantiated. promoting a device for an off-label use or making misleading or unsubstantiated claims could result in government enforcement action. furthermore, our facilities are subject to periodic inspection by the fda and other federal, state and foreign government authorities, which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to certain regulations, including the fda's quality system regulation, which requires periodic audits, design controls, quality control testing and documentation procedures, as well as complaint evaluations and investigation. in addition, any facilities assembling convenience kits that include drug components and are registered as drug repackaging establishments are also subject to current good manufacturing practices requirements for drugs. the fda also requires the reporting of certain adverse events and product malfunctions and may require the reporting of recalls or other field safety corrective actions. issues identified through such inspections and reports may result in fda enforcement action through any of the actions discussed above. moreover, issues identified through such inspections and reports may require significant resources to resolve. we are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse laws, regulation and enforcement; our failure to comply with those laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse regulation and enforcement by the federal government and the governments of those states and foreign countries in which we conduct our business. the laws that may affect our ability to operate include: the federal healthcare anti-kickback statute, which, among other things, prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully offering or paying remuneration to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as medicare and medicaid, or soliciting payment for such referrals, purchases, orders and recommendations; federal false claims laws which, among other things, prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, false or fraudulent claims for payment from the federal government, including medicare, medicaid or other third-party payors; the federal health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996 ( hipaa ), which prohibits schemes to defraud any healthcare benefit program and false statements relating to healthcare matters; and state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers. if our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws or any other government regulations, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, the exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs and imprisonment of personnel, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. the risk of our being found to have violated these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. further, the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act (collectively, the affordable care act ), imposed annual reporting and disclosure requirements on device manufacturers for any transfer of value made or distributed to physicians or teaching hospitals. our first report was submitted in 2014, and the reported information was made publicly available in a searchable format in september 2014. in addition, device manufacturers are required to report and disclose any investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members during the preceding calendar year. failure to submit required information may result in civil monetary penalties for each payment, transfer of value or ownership or investment 18 interests not reported in an annual submission, up to an aggregate of $150,000 per year (and up to an aggregate of $1 million per year for knowing failures ). in addition, there has been a recent trend of increased federal and state regulation of payments made to healthcare providers. some states, such as california, connecticut, nevada and massachusetts, mandate implementation of compliance programs that include the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation for consulting and other services, and other remuneration to healthcare providers. the shifting commercial compliance environment and the need to build and maintain robust and expandable systems to comply with the different compliance and/or reporting requirements among a number of jurisdictions increases the possibility that we may inadvertently violate one or more of the requirements, resulting in increased compliance costs that could adversely impact our results of operations. we may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability and warranty claims, as well as product recalls, any of which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. furthermore, our reputation as a medical device company may be damaged if one or more of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective. our businesses expose us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture and marketing of our products. in particular, our medical device products are often used in surgical and intensive care settings for procedures involving seriously ill patients. in addition, many of our products are designed to be implanted in the human body for varying periods of time. product defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks with respect to products we manufacture or sell could result in patient injury or death. in addition, in connection with the divestitures of our former non-medical businesses, we agreed to retain certain liabilities related to those businesses, which include, among other things, liability for products manufactured prior to the date on which we completed the sale of the business. product liability and warranty claims often involve very large or indeterminate amounts, including punitive damages. the magnitude of potential losses from product liability lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time, and the related legal defense costs may be significant. we could experience material warranty or product liability losses in the future and incur significant costs to defend these claims. in addition, if any of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective, we may voluntarily participate, or be required by regulatory authorities to participate, in a recall of that product. in the event of a recall, we may lose sales and be exposed to individual or class-action litigation claims. moreover, negative publicity regarding a quality or safety issue, whether accurate or inaccurate, could harm our reputation, decrease demand for our products, lead to product withdrawals or impair our ability to successfully launch and market our products in the future. product liability, warranty and recall costs may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the ongoing volatility in the domestic and global financial markets, combined with a continuation of constrained global credit markets could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we are subject to risks arising from adverse changes in general domestic and global economic conditions. the economic slowdown and disruption of credit markets that occurred in recent years led to recessionary conditions and depressed levels of consumer and commercial spending, resulting in reductions, delays or cancellations of purchases of our products and services. despite some improvements in recent years, economic conditions continue to cause disruption in some financial markets, resulting in, among other things, diminished liquidity and credit availability. we cannot predict the duration or extent of any economic recovery or the extent to which our customers will return to more typical spending behaviors. the continuation of the present broadly applicable economic trends of weak economic growth, constricted credit, public sector austerity measures in response to public budget deficits and foreign currency volatility, particularly with respect to the euro, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. additionally, our customers, particularly in italy, spain, portugal and greece, have extended or delayed payments for products and services already provided, which has increased our focus on collectability with respect to our accounts receivable from these customers. to date, we have not experienced an inordinate amount of payment defaults by our customers, and we have sufficient lending commitments in place to enable us to fund our foreseeable additional operating needs. however, the ongoing uncertainty in the european financial markets, combined with a continuation of constrained european credit markets creates a risk that some of our european customers and suppliers may be unable to access liquidity. as of december 31, 2016 and 2015 , our net current and long term trade accounts receivable in italy, spain, portugal and greece were $51.1 million and $62.3 million , respectively. in 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , net 19 revenues from these countries were approximately 7% , 7% and 8% of total net revenues, respectively, and average days that accounts receivable from these countries were outstanding were 182 , 204 and 223 days, respectively. although we maintain allowances for doubtful accounts to cover the estimated losses which may occur when customers cannot make their required payments, we cannot assure that we will continue to experience the same loss rate in the future given the volatility in the worldwide economy. if our allowance for doubtful accounts is insufficient to address receivables we ultimately determine are uncollectible, we would be required to incur additional charges, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. moreover, our inability to collect outstanding receivables could adversely affect our financial condition and cash flow from operations. in addition, adverse economic and financial market conditions may result in future impairment charges with respect to our goodwill and other intangible assets, which would not directly affect our liquidity but could have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results. our strategic initiatives, including acquisitions, may not produce the intended growth in revenue and operating income. our strategic initiatives include making significant investments designed to achieve revenue growth and to enable us to meet or exceed margin improvement targets. if we do not achieve the expected benefits from these investments or otherwise fail to execute on our strategic initiatives, we may not achieve the growth improvement we are targeting and our results of operations may be adversely affected. in addition, as part of our strategy for growth, we have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions and divestitures and enter into strategic alliances such as joint ventures and joint development agreements. however, we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions or integrate acquisitions successfully, and our joint ventures or strategic alliances may not prove to be successful. in this regard, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration of acquired operations, technologies, services and products and the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. even if we are successful in completing an acquisition, the products and technologies that we acquire may not be successful or may require significantly greater resources and investments than we anticipated. we could also experience negative effects on our results of operations and financial condition from acquisition-related charges, amortization of intangible assets and asset impairment charges, and other issues that could arise in connection with the acquisition of a company or business, including issues related to internal control over financial reporting, regulatory compliance and short-term effects of increased costs on results of operations. although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in any particular transaction, there can be no assurance that we will identify all such risks or the magnitude of the risks. in addition, prior acquisitions have resulted, and future acquisitions could result, in the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness and expenditures. future acquisitions may also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities. there can be no assurance that difficulties encountered in connection with acquisitions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. health care reform may have a material adverse effect on our industry and our business. political, economic and regulatory developments have effected fundamental changes in the healthcare industry. the affordable care act substantially changed the way health care is financed by both government and private insurers. it also encourages improvements in the quality of health care products and services and significantly impacts the united states pharmaceutical and medical device industries. among other things, the affordable care act: established a 2.3% excise tax on sales of medical devices with respect to any entity that manufactures or imports specified medical devices offered for sale in the united states, although this tax has been suspended for 2016 and 2017 as a result of the enactment of the consolidated appropriations act of 2016; established a new patient-centered outcomes research institute to oversee, identify priorities in and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research; implemented payment system reforms, including a national pilot program to encourage hospitals, physicians and other providers to improve the coordination, quality and efficiency of certain health care services through bundled payment models; and created an independent payment advisory board that will submit recommendations to reduce medicare spending if projected medicare spending exceeds a specified growth rate. 20 in 2015 and 2014 , we recorded expenses of $10.2 million and $12.7 million , respectively, with respect to the medical device excise tax. while the excise tax has been suspended in 2016 and 2017, unless the suspension is extended, we will again be subject to the excise tax in 2018. we cannot predict at this time the full impact of the affordable care act or other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in this regard, president trump and several congressional leaders have expressed an intention to repeal the affordable care act and adopt legislation to replace that act, although more recent statements by president trump and several members of congress indicate that some time may elapse before any legislative action with respect to the affordable care act is effected. therefore, the continued viability of, or the nature of any modification of, or legislative substitution for, the affordable care act is highly uncertain, and we cannot predict the effect that any of these events would have on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we are subject to risks associated with our non-united states operations. we have significant manufacturing and distribution facilities, research and development facilities, sales personnel and customer support operations in a number of countries outside the united states, including belgium, the czech republic, germany, ireland, malaysia, mexico. in addition, a significant portion of our non-united states revenues are derived from sales to third party distributors. as of december 31, 2016 , 77% of our full-time and temporary employees were employed in countries outside of the united states. as of december 31, 2016 , and 2015 , approximately 45% and 43% , respectively, of our net property, plant and equipment was located outside the united states. in addition, for the years ended december 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 approximately 46% , 47% and 50% , respectively, of our net revenues (based on the teleflex entity generating the sale) were derived from operations outside the united states. our international operations are subject to risks inherent in doing business outside the united states, including: exchange controls, currency restrictions and fluctuations in currency values; trade protection measures; potentially costly and burdensome import or export requirements; laws and business practices that favor local companies; changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and procedures; subsidies or increased access to capital for firms that currently are or may emerge as competitors in countries in which we have operations; substantial foreign tax liabilities, including potentially negative consequences resulting from changes in tax laws; restrictions and taxes related to the repatriation of foreign earnings; differing labor regulations; additional united states and foreign government controls or regulations; difficulties in the protection of intellectual property; and unsettled political and economic conditions and possible terrorist attacks against american interests. in addition, the united states foreign corrupt practices act (the fcpa ) and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws in non-united states jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-united states officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. the fcpa also imposes accounting standards and requirements on publicly traded united states corporations and their foreign affiliates, which, among other things, are intended to prevent the diversion of corporate funds to the payment of bribes and other improper payments to government officials, and to prevent the establishment of off the books slush funds from which such improper payments can be made. because of the predominance of government-sponsored health care systems around the world, many of our customer relationships outside of the united states are with government entities and are therefore subject to such anti-bribery laws. our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. however, we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced government corruption to some degree. despite meaningful measures that we undertake to facilitate lawful conduct, which include training and compliance programs and internal control policies and procedures, we may not always prevent reckless or criminal acts by our employees, distributors or other agents. in addition, we may be exposed to liability due to pre-acquisition conduct of employees, distributors or other agents of businesses or operations we acquire. violations of anti-bribery laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our operations, involve significant management distraction and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we also could be subject to severe 21 penalties and other adverse consequences, including criminal and civil penalties, disgorgement, substantial expenditures related to further enhancements to our procedures, policies and controls, personnel changes and other remedial actions. furthermore, we are subject to the export controls and economic embargo rules and regulations of the united states, including the export administration regulations and trade sanctions against embargoed countries, which are administered by the office of foreign assets control within the department of the treasury, as well as other laws and regulations administered by the department of commerce. these regulations limit our ability to market, sell, distribute or otherwise transfer our products or technology to prohibited countries or persons. while we train our employees and contractually obligate our distributors to comply with these regulations, we cannot assure that a violation will not occur, whether knowingly or inadvertently. failure to comply with these rules and regulations may result in substantial civil and criminal penalties, including fines and the disgorgement of profits, the imposition of a court-appointed monitor, the denial of export privileges and debarment from participation in united states government contracts. the risks relating to our foreign operations may have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. foreign currency exchange rate, commodity price and interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. products manufactured in, and sold into, foreign markets represent a significant portion of our operations. our consolidated financial statements reflect translation of financial statements denominated in non-united states currencies to united states dollars, our reporting currency, as well as the foreign currency exchange gains and losses resulting from the remeasurement of assets and liabilities as well as transactions denominated in currencies other than the primary currency of the country in which the entity operates, which we refer to as "non-functional currencies." a strengthening or weakening of the united states dollar in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries in which we sell or manufacture our products, such as the euro, will affect our united states dollar-reported revenue and income. although we have entered into forward contracts with several major financial institutions to hedge a portion of our monetary assets and liabilities and projected cash flows denominated in non-functional currencies in order to reduce the effects of currency rate fluctuations, changes in the relative values of currencies may, in some instances, have a significant effect on our results of operations. many of our products have significant plastic resin content. we also use quantities of other commodities, such as aluminum and steel. increases in the prices of these commodities could increase the costs of our products and services. we may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers, particularly with respect to those products we sell under group purchase agreements, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. increases in interest rates may adversely affect the financial health of our customers and suppliers, thereby adversely affecting their ability to buy our products and supply the components or raw materials we need. in addition, our borrowing costs could be adversely affected if interest rates increase. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. fluctuations in our effective tax rate and changes to tax laws may adversely affect us. as a global company, we are subject to taxation in numerous countries, states and other jurisdictions. our effective tax rate is derived from a combination of applicable tax rates in the various countries, states and other jurisdictions in which we operate. in preparing our financial statements, we estimate the amount of tax that will become payable in each of these jurisdictions. our effective tax rate may, however, differ from the estimated amount due to numerous factors, including a change in the mix of our profitability from country to country and changes in tax laws. any of these factors could cause us to experience an effective tax rate significantly different from previous periods or our current expectations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. an interruption in our manufacturing or distribution operations or our supply of raw materials may adversely affect our business. many of our key products are manufactured at or distributed from single locations, and the availability of alternate facilities is limited. if operations at one or more of our facilities is suspended due to natural disasters or other events, 22 we may not be able to timely manufacture or distribute one or more of our products at previous levels or at all. furthermore, our ability to establish replacement facilities or to substitute suppliers may be delayed due to regulations and requirements of the fda and other regulatory authorities regarding the manufacture of our products. in addition, in the event of delays or cancellations in shipments of raw materials by our suppliers, we may not be able to timely manufacture or supply the affected products at previous levels or at all. the manufacture of our products is highly exacting and complex, due in part to strict regulatory requirements. problems in the manufacturing process, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, defective raw materials and environmental factors, could lead to launch delays, product shortages, unanticipated costs, lost revenues and damage to our reputation. a failure to identify and address manufacturing problems prior to the release of products to our customers may also result in quality or safety issues. a reduction or interruption in manufacturing or distribution, or our inability to secure suitable alternative sources of raw materials or components, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our ability to attract, train, develop and retain key employees is important to our success. our success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to retain our key personnel, including our executive officers and other members of our senior management team. our success also depends, in part, on our ability to attract, train, develop and retain other key employees, including research and development, sales, marketing and operations personnel. we may experience difficulties in retaining executives and other employees due to many factors, including: the intense competition for skilled personnel in our industry; fluctuations in global economic and industry conditions; changes in our organizational structure; our restructuring initiatives; competitors' hiring practices; and the effectiveness of our compensation programs. our inability to attract, train, develop and retain such personnel could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we depend upon relationships with physicians and other health care professionals. research and development for some of our products is dependent on our maintaining strong working relationships with physicians and other healthcare professionals. we rely on these professionals to provide us with considerable knowledge and advice regarding the development and use of our products. physicians assist us as researchers, product consultants, inventors and public speakers. if we fail to maintain our working relationships with physicians and, as a result, no longer have the benefit of their knowledge and advice, our products may not be developed in a manner that is responsive to the needs and expectations of the professionals who use and support our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our technology is important to our success, and our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could put us at a competitive disadvantage. we rely on the patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws of the united states and other countries to protect our proprietary rights. although we own numerous united states and foreign patents and have submitted numerous patent applications, we cannot be assured that any pending patent applications will issue, or that any patents, issued or pending, will provide us with any competitive advantage or will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties. in addition, we rely on confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with employees and take other measures to protect our know-how and trade secrets. the steps we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of our technology by competitors or other persons who may copy or otherwise obtain and use these products or technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as in the united states. we cannot assure that current and former employees, contractors and other parties will not breach their confidentiality agreements with us, misappropriate proprietary information, copy or otherwise obtain and use our information and proprietary technology without authorization or otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. our inability to protect our proprietary technology could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. moreover, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop know-how 23 and trade secrets comparable to ours or develop better technology than our own, which could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we have developed. our products or processes may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to pay unexpected litigation costs or damages or prevent us from selling our products. we cannot be certain that our products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of our business, including claims of alleged infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties. any such claims, whether or not meritorious, could result in litigation and divert the efforts of our personnel. if we are found liable for infringement, we may be required to enter into licensing agreements (which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all) or to pay damages or cease making or selling certain products. we may need to redesign some of our products or processes to avoid future infringement liability. any of the foregoing events could be detrimental to our business. other pending and future litigation may involve significant costs and adversely affect our business. we are party to various lawsuits and claims arising in the normal course of business involving, among other things, contracts, intellectual property, import and export regulations, employment and environmental matters. the defense of these lawsuits may divert our management's attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. in addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. while we do not believe that any litigation in which we are currently engaged would have such an adverse effect, the outcome of litigation, including regulatory matters, is often difficult to predict, and we cannot assure that the outcome of pending or future litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. as of december 31, 2016 , we had total consolidated indebtedness of 1,046 million . our substantial level of indebtedness increases the risk that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to satisfy our debt obligations. it could also have significant effects on our business. for example, it could: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; limit our ability to borrow additional funds for such general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; restrict us from exploiting business opportunities; and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness. if we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or if future borrowings are not available to us in an amount sufficient to pay our indebtedness when due or to fund our other liquidity needs, we may be forced to: refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness; sell assets; reduce or delay capital expenditures; or seek to raise additional capital. we may not be able to effect any of these actions on commercially reasonable terms or at all. our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our financial condition at the time, the restrictions in the instruments governing our outstanding indebtedness and other factors, including market conditions. 24 our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt service obligations, or to refinance or restructure our obligations on commercially reasonable terms or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our debt agreements impose restrictions on our business, which could prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking some corporate actions and may adversely affect our ability to respond to changes in our business and manage our operations. our senior credit agreement and the indentures governing our 5.25% senior notes due 2024 (the "2024 notes") and our 4.875% senior notes due 2026 (the "2026 notes") contain covenants that, among other things, impose significant restrictions on our business. the restrictions that these covenants place on us and our restricted subsidiaries include limitations on our and their ability to, among other things: incur additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock or otherwise disqualified stock; create liens; pay dividends, make investments or make other restricted payments; sell assets; use the proceeds of permitted sales of our assets; merge, consolidate, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and enter into transactions with our affiliates. in addition, our senior credit agreement also contains financial covenants, including covenants requiring maintenance of a consolidated leverage ratio, a secured leverage ratio and a consolidated interest coverage ratio, calculated in accordance with the terms of the senior credit agreement. a breach of any covenants under any one or more of our debt agreements could result in a default, which if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt. in addition, any debt agreements we enter into in the future may further limit our ability to enter into certain types of transactions. the contingent conversion features of our convertible notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition. in august 2010, we issued $400 million in aggregate principal amount of 3.875% convertible senior subordinated notes due 2017 (the convertible notes ). the convertible notes are convertible under certain circumstances, including the attainment of a last reported sale price per share of our common stock equal to 130% of the conversion price (approximately $79.72) for at least 20 trading days during a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding fiscal quarter. since the fourth quarter 2013 and in all subsequent fiscal quarters, the last reported sale price of our common stock exceeded the 130% threshold. moreover, commencing on may 1, 2017 and through july 28, 2017, the convertible notes are convertible regardless of our stock price, and the convertible notes mature in august 2017. as a result, the convertible notes are classified as a current liability, which, in turn, has resulted in a material reduction of our net working capital. in april 2016 and january 2017, we exchanged $310.9 million aggregate principal amount of convertible notes in for cash and our common stock pursuant to the terms of separate, privately negotiated agreements with certain holders of the convertible notes. in addition, holders of $44.8 million aggregate principal amount of convertible notes have effected conversions in accordance with the terms of the convertible notes. see convertible notes - exchange transactions and convertible notes - conversions within note 8, and exchange transactions within note 13, of our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information. following the exchange transactions and conversions, and as of february 13, 2017, $44.3 million in aggregate principal amount of the convertible notes remain outstanding. at this time, we have elected the net settlement method to satisfy the conversion obligation, under which we will settle the principal amount of the convertible notes converted in cash and settle the excess conversion value in shares, plus cash in lieu of fractional shares. while our conversion obligations have been substantially reduced as a result of the exchange transactions and conversions described above, and we believe we have sufficient liquidity to repay the principal amount due on the remaining outstanding convertible notes through a combination of our existing cash on hand, amounts available under our revolving credit facility and, if necessary, amounts provided through the capital markets, our use of these funds could adversely affect our results of operations and liquidity. see "convertible notes" within note 8 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for a further discussion regarding the conversion terms of the convertible notes. 25 the convertible note hedge transactions and warrant transactions entered into in connection with the issuance of our convertible notes may adversely affect the value of our common stock. in connection with our issuance of the convertible notes, we entered into privately negotiated hedge transactions with two counterparties, which we refer to as the "hedge counterparties." the hedge transactions cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, the number of shares of our common stock that underlie the convertible notes and reduce the dilution with respect to our common stock and/or cash payments that we may be required to make upon conversion of the convertible notes. separately, we also entered into privately negotiated warrant transactions with the hedge counterparties under which we may be obligated to issues shares of our common stock. the warrants initially related to the same number of shares of our common stock as were initially subject to the hedge transactions and have an exercise price of $74.65, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments. in connection with the exchange transactions referenced in the preceding risk factor, we entered into agreements with the hedge counterparties that reduced the scope of the hedge transactions so that they cover only the number of shares of our common stock underlying the convertible notes that remained outstanding following the exchange transactions. we also entered into agreements with the such dealer counterparties to reduce the number of shares subject to the warrants. nevertheless, based on recent market prices of our common stock, the warrant transactions have a dilutive effect with respect to our common stock or, if we so elect, obligate us to make cash payments to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock exceeds the exercise price of the warrants on any expiration date of the warrants. in addition, under applicable accounting guidance, changes in the share price of our common stock can have a significant impact on the number of shares that we must include in the fully diluted earnings per share calculation with respect to the convertible notes and warrants, which, in turn, could impact our reported financial results. based on the average market price of our common stock during 2016 , 1.7 million shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants were included in the total diluted shares outstanding for the year ended december 31, 2016 . for additional information, see financing arrangements under item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations included in this annual report on form 10-k. in connection with establishing their positions under the convertible note hedge transactions and the warrant transactions, the hedge counterparties (and/or their affiliates) entered into various cash-settled over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to our common stock concurrently with, or shortly following, the pricing of the convertible notes. the hedge counterparties (and/or their affiliates) may, in their sole discretion, with or without notice, modify their hedge positions from time to time (and are likely to do so during any conversion period related to the conversion of the convertible notes) by entering into or unwinding various over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to shares of our common stock, and/or by purchasing or selling shares of our common stock or convertible notes in privately negotiated transactions and/or open market transactions. the effect, if any, of these transactions and activities on the market price of our common stock will depend in part on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time, but any of these activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock. we are subject to counterparty risk with respect to the convertible note hedge transactions. each hedge counterparty is a financial institution or the affiliate of a financial institution, and we will be subject to the risk that one or more hedge counterparties may default under the convertible note hedge transactions. our exposure to the credit risk of each hedge counterparty is not secured by any collateral. if a hedge counterparty becomes subject to insolvency proceedings, we will become an unsecured creditor in those proceedings with a claim equal to our exposure at that time under the convertible note hedge transaction with that hedge counterparty. our exposure will depend on many factors but, generally, the increase in our exposure will be correlated to the increase in the market price of our common stock and in the volatility of our common stock. in addition, upon a default by a hedge counterparty, we may suffer adverse tax consequences and dilution with respect to our common stock. we can provide no assurances as to the financial stability or viability of the hedge counterparties. we may issue additional shares of our common stock or instruments convertible into our common stock, including in connection with conversions of our convertible notes, which could lower the price of our common stock. we are not restricted from issuing additional shares of our common stock or other instruments convertible into our common stock. as of december 31, 2016 , we had outstanding approximately 44 million shares of our common stock, options to purchase approximately 1.6 million shares of our common stock (of which approximately 1.0 million were vested as of that date), restricted stock units covering approximately 0.3 million shares of our common stock 26 (which are expected to vest over the next three years) and approximately 12,000 shares of our common stock to be distributed from our deferred compensation plan. as of december 31, 2016 , 14.2 million shares of our common stock are reserved for issuance upon the exercise of stock options, upon conversion of the convertible notes and upon the exercise of the warrants issued in connection with the convertible notes. we cannot predict the size of future issuances or the effect, if any, that they may have on the market price for our common stock. if we issue additional shares of our common stock or instruments convertible into our common stock, such issuances may materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock. furthermore, our issuance of shares following the exercise of some or all of the outstanding stock options and warrants, the vested of restricted stock units and the conversion of some or all of the convertible notes will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders, and any sales in the public market of such shares of our common stock could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. in addition, the issuance and sale of substantial amounts of our common stock, including common stock issued as a result of the exercise of stock options and warrants, vesting of restricted stock units or conversion of the convertible notes, could depress the price of our common stock. disruption of critical information systems or material breaches in the security of our systems may adversely affect our business and customer relationships. we rely on information technology systems to process, transmit, and store electronic information in our day-to-day operations. we also rely on our technology infrastructure, among other functions, to enable us to interact with customers and suppliers, fulfill orders, generate invoices, collect and make payments, ship products, provide support to customers, fulfill contractual obligations and otherwise conduct business. our internal information technology systems, as well as those systems maintained by third-party providers, may be subjected to computer viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized access attempts, and cyber-attacks, any of which could result in data leaks or otherwise compromise our confidential or proprietary information and disrupt our operations. cyber-attacks are becoming more sophisticated and frequent, and in some cases have caused significant harm. although we have taken numerous measures to protect our information systems and enhance data security, we cannot assure that these measures will prevent security breaches that could have a significant impact on our business, reputation and financial results. if we fail to monitor, maintain or protect our information technology systems and data integrity effectively or fail to anticipate, plan for or manage significant disruptions to these systems, we could, among other things, lose customers, have difficulty preventing fraud, have disputes with customers, physicians and other health care professionals, be subject to regulatory sanctions or penalties, incur expenses or lose revenues or suffer other adverse consequences. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. regulations related to conflict minerals may increase our costs and adversely affect our business. in 2012, the sec promulgated rules under the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act regarding disclosure of the use of tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, known as "conflict minerals," included in components of products either manufactured by public companies or for which public companies have contracted to manufacture. these rules require that we undertake due diligence efforts to determine whether such minerals originated from the democratic republic of congo (the drc ) or an adjoining country and, if so, whether such minerals helped finance armed conflict in the drc or an adjoining country. in accordance with applicable regulations, we filed conflict minerals reports in 2014, 2015 and 2016. as discussed in these reports, we have determined that certain of our products contain the specified minerals, and we have undertaken, and continue to undertake, efforts to identify where such minerals originated. we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the sources of the specified minerals used in our products. these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products. our customers may require that our products be free of conflict minerals, and our revenues and margins may be adversely affected if we are unable to provide assurances to our customers that our products are drc conflict free (generally, the product does not contain conflict minerals originating in the drc or an adjoining country that directly or indirectly finance or benefit specified armed groups) due to, among other things, our inability to procure conflict free minerals at a reasonable price, or at all. moreover, we may be adversely affected if we are unable to pass through any increased costs associated with meeting customer demands that we provide products that are drc conflict free. we also may face reputational challenges if our due diligence efforts do not enable us to verify the origins of all conflict minerals or to determine that any conflict minerals used in products we manufacture or in products manufactured by others for us are drc conflict-free. 27 our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. we are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things: the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; and the health and safety of our employees. these laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances, which may include claims for personal injury or cleanup, will not exceed our estimates or will not adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our workforce covered by collective bargaining and similar agreements could cause interruptions in our provision of products and services. as of december 31, 2016 , approximately 12% of our employees in the united states and in other countries were covered by union contracts or collective bargaining arrangements. it is likely that a portion of our workforce will remain covered by collective bargaining and similar agreements for the foreseeable future. strikes or work stoppages could occur that would adversely impact our relationships with our customers and our ability to conduct our business. we may not pay dividends on our common stock in the future. holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends only as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. the declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including our financial condition, earnings, compliance with covenants in our debt instruments, legal requirements and other factors as our board of directors deems relevant. we cannot assure you that our cash dividend will not be reduced, or eliminated, in the future. certain provisions of our corporate governing documents, delaware law and our convertible notes could discourage, delay, or prevent a merger or acquisition. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock. for example, our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to determine the number of shares in a series, the consideration, dividend rights, liquidation preferences, terms of redemption, conversion or exchange rights and voting rights, if any, of unissued series of preferred stock, without any vote or action by our stockholders. thus, our board of directors can authorize and issue shares of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting or other rights of holders of our common stock. we are also subject to section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our common stock. these provisions could have the effect of delaying or deterring a third party from acquiring us even if an acquisition might be in the best interest of our stockholders, and accordingly could reduce the market price of our common stock. certain provisions in the convertible notes and the indentures governing the convertible notes, the 2024 notes and the 2026 notes could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. for example, if an acquisition event constitutes a fundamental change, as defined in the indenture governing the convertible notes, holders of the convertible notes will have the right to require us to purchase their notes in cash. similarly, if an acquisition event constitutes a change of control as defined in the indenture governing the 2024 notes and 2026 notes, holders of such notes will have the right to require us to purchase their notes in cash. in addition, if an acquisition event constitutes a make-whole fundamental change, as defined in the indenture governing the convertible notes, we may be required, under certain circumstances, to increase the conversion rate for holders who convert their notes in connection with such acquisition event. in either case, and in other cases, our obligations under the convertible notes, the 2024 notes and the 2026 notes could increase the cost of acquiring us or otherwise discourage a third party from acquiring us or removing incumbent management, and accordingly could reduce the market price of our common stock. 28 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk we are exposed to certain financial risks, specifically fluctuations in market interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and, to a lesser extent, commodity prices. we use derivative financial instruments to manage or reduce the impact of some of these risks. we do not enter into derivative instruments for trading purposes. we are also exposed to changes in the market traded price of our common stock as it influences the valuation of stock options and their effect on earnings. interest rate risk we are exposed to changes in interest rates as a result of our borrowing activities and our cash balances. the table below provides information regarding the interest rates by year of maturity for our fixed and variable rate debt 58 obligations. variable interest rates on december 31, 2016 were determined using a base rate of the one-month libor rate plus the applicable spread. year of maturity 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 thereafter total (dollars in thousands) fixed rate debt $ 136,076 $ $ $ $ $ 650,000 $ 786,076 average interest rate 3.875 % % % % % 5.019 % 4.821 % variable rate debt $ 50,000 $ 210,000 $ $ $ $ $ 260,000 average interest rate 1.522 % 2.270 % % % % % 2.126 % a change of 1.0% in variable interest rates would increase or decrease annual interest expense by approximately $1.6 million based on our outstanding debt as of december 31, 2016 . foreign currency risk we are exposed to currency fluctuations in connection with transactions, as well as monetary assets and liabilities, denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of certain subsidiaries. we enter into forward contracts with several major financial institutions to hedge the risk associated with these exposures; these contracts generally involve the purchase or sale, at designated future dates, of specified amounts of a foreign currency while simultaneously committing to an opposite way sale or purchase of a specified amount of u.s. dollars or euros, based on the exchange rate at the time of entry into the contract. the contracts we enter into to hedge transactions denominated in non-functional currencies are designated as cash flow hedges. the contracts to hedge monetary asset and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies are not designated as cash flow, fair value or net investment hedges. see note 9 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for information regarding the accounting treatment of designated and non-designated hedge contracts. the following table provides information regarding our open foreign currency forward contracts at december 31, 2016 , which mature during 2017 . as of december 31, 2016 , the total notional amount for the designated and non-designated contracts, expressed in u.s. dollars, is $101.8 million and $73.4 million , respectively. as of december 31, 2015, the total notional amount for the designated and non-designated contracts, expressed in u.s. dollars, is $49.5 million and $69.1 million, respectively. forward contract notional amounts presented below are expressed in the stated currencies. forward currency contracts: buy/(sell) (in thousands) designated non-designated australian dollar (8,341 ) 4,240 british pound (4,300 ) (5,115 ) canadian dollar (8,496 ) (7,793 ) chinese renminbi (96,770 ) (85,679 ) czech koruna 305,880 83,751 euro 5,461 48,738 japanese yen (785,010 ) (1,538,166 ) korean won (3,581,250 ) (2,595,892 ) malaysian ringgit 66,440 9,525 mexican peso 354,640 78,786 singapore dollar 7,945 south african rand (40,750 ) (37,236 ) swiss franc (3,410 ) united states dollar (9,091 ) (14,859 ) 59risk factors in addition to the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k, you should carefully consider the following factors which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or stock price. the risks below are not the only risks we face. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or stock price. we face strong competition. our failure to successfully develop and market new products could adversely affect our business. the medical device industry is highly competitive. we compete with many domestic and foreign medical device companies ranging from small start-up enterprises that might sell only a single or limited number of competitive products or compete only in a specific market segment, to companies that are larger and more established than us, have a broad range of competitive products, participate in numerous markets and have access to significantly greater financial and marketing resources than we do. in addition, the medical device industry is characterized by extensive product research and development and rapid technological advances. the future success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability to design and manufacture new competitive products and enhance existing products. our product development efforts may require us to make substantial investments. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop new products, enhance existing products or achieve market acceptance of our products, due to, among other things, our inability to: identify viable new products; 16 maintain sufficient liquidity to fund our investments in research and development and product acquisitions; obtain adequate intellectual property protection; gain market acceptance of new products; or successfully obtain regulatory approvals. in addition, our competitors currently may be developing, or may develop in the future, products that provide better features, clinical outcomes or economic value than those that we currently offer or subsequently develop. our failure to successfully develop and market new products or enhance existing products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our customers depend on third party coverage and reimbursements, and the failure of healthcare programs to provide sufficient coverage and reimbursement for our medical products could adversely affect us. the ability of our customers to obtain coverage and reimbursement for our products is important to our business. demand for many of our existing and new medical products is, and will continue to be, affected by the extent to which government healthcare programs and private health insurers reimburse our customers for patients' medical expenses in the countries where we do business. even when we develop or acquire a promising new product, demand for the product may be limited unless reimbursement approval is obtained from private and government third party payors. internationally, healthcare reimbursement systems vary significantly. in some countries, medical centers are constrained by fixed budgets, regardless of the volume and nature of patient treatment. other countries require application for, and approval of, government or third party reimbursement. without both favorable coverage determinations by, and the financial support of, government and third party insurers, the market for many of our medical products would be adversely affected. in this regard, we cannot be sure that third party payors will maintain the current level of coverage and reimbursement to our customers for use of our existing products. adverse coverage determinations, including reductions in the amount of reimbursement, could harm our business by discouraging customers' selection of our products and reducing the prices they are willing to pay. in addition, as a result of their purchasing power, third party payors are implementing cost cutting measures such as seeking discounts, price reductions or other incentives from medical products suppliers and imposing limitations on coverage and reimbursement for medical technologies and procedures. these trends could compel us to reduce prices for our products and could cause a decrease in the size of the market or a potential increase in competition that could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may not be successful in achieving expected operating efficiencies and sustaining or improving operating expense reductions, and may experience business disruptions associated with restructuring, facility consolidations, realignment, cost reduction and other strategic initiatives. over the past several years we have implemented a number of restructuring, realignment and cost reduction initiatives, including facility consolidations, organizational realignments and reductions in our workforce, and we may engage in similar efforts in the future. while we have realized some efficiencies from these initiatives, we may not realize the benefits of these or future initiatives to the extent we anticipated. further, such benefits may be realized later than expected, and the ongoing difficulties in implementing these measures may be greater than anticipated, which could cause us to incur additional costs or result in business disruptions. in addition, if these measures are not successful or sustainable, we may be compelled to undertake additional restructuring, realignment and cost reduction efforts, which could result in significant additional charges. moreover, if our restructuring, realignment and cost reduction efforts prove ineffective, our ability to achieve our other strategic and business plan goals may be adversely affected. in addition, as part of our efforts to increase operating efficiencies, we have implemented a number of initiatives over the past several years to consolidate our enterprise resource planning, or erp, systems. to date, we have not experienced any significant disruptions to our business or operations in connection with these initiatives. however, as we continue our efforts to further consolidate our erp systems, we could experience business disruptions, which could adversely affect customer relationships and divert the attention of management away from daily operations. in addition, any delays in the implementation of these initiatives could cause us to incur additional unexpected costs. should we experience such difficulties, our business, cash flows and results of operations could be adversely affected. 17 a significant portion of our united states revenues is derived from sales to distributors, and destocking activity by these distributors can adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. a significant portion of our revenues in the united states is derived from sales to distributors, who, in turn, sell our products to hospitals and other health care institutions. from time to time, these distributors may decide to reduce their levels of inventory with regard to certain of our products, a practice we refer to as destocking. a distributor's decision to reduce inventory levels with respect to our products may be based on a number of factors, such as distributor expectations regarding demand for a particular product, distributor buying decisions (including decisions to purchase competing products), changes in distributor policies regarding the maintenance of inventory levels, economic conditions and other factors. for example, during the third quarter of 2016, we experienced a decline in purchases by our united states distributors that adversely affected our revenues and results of operations. we believe the reduction resulted from the distributors' expectations of a less severe 2016-2017 flu season, which resulted in reduced levels of purchasing with respect to certain of our products that are used for treatment of hospitalized patients suffering from the flu. following such instances of reduced purchases, distributors may revert to previous purchasing levels; nevertheless, we cannot assure that distributors will, in fact, increase purchases of our products in this manner. a decline in the level of product purchases by our united states distributors in the future could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations during a reporting period, and an extended decline in such product purchases could have a longer term material adverse effect. we are subject to extensive government regulation, which may require us to incur significant expenses to ensure compliance. our failure to comply with those regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our products are classified as medical devices and are subject to extensive regulation in the united states by the fda and by comparable government agencies in other countries. the regulations govern, among other things, the development, design, approval, manufacturing, labeling, importing and exporting and sale and marketing of many of our products. moreover, these regulations are subject to future change. in the united states, before we can market a new medical device, or a new use of, or claim for, or significant modification to, an existing product, we generally must first receive either 510(k) or de novo clearance or approval of a premarket approval application, or pma, from the fda. similarly, most major markets for medical devices outside the united states also require clearance, approval or compliance with certain standards before a product can be commercially marketed. the process of obtaining regulatory clearances and approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the fda and certain foreign government authorities, can be costly and time consuming, and clearances and approvals might not be granted for new products on a timely basis, if at all. in addition, once a device has been cleared or approved, a new clearance or approval may be required before the device may be modified or its labeling changed. furthermore, the fda or a foreign government authority may make its review and clearance or approval process more rigorous, which could require us to generate additional clinical or other data, and expend more time and effort, in obtaining future product clearances or approvals. the regulatory clearance and approval process may result in, among other things, delayed realization of product revenues, substantial additional costs or limitations on indicated uses of products, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. even after a product has received marketing approval or clearance, such product approval or clearance can be withdrawn or limited due to unforeseen problems with the device or issues relating to its application. failure to comply with applicable regulations could lead to adverse effects on our business, which could include: partial suspension or total shutdown of manufacturing; product shortages; delays in product manufacturing; warning or untitled letters; fines or civil penalties; delays in obtaining new regulatory clearances or approvals; withdrawal or suspension of required clearances, approvals or licenses; product seizures or recalls; injunctions; criminal prosecution; 18 advisories or other field actions; operating restrictions; and prohibitions against exporting of products to, or importing products from, countries outside the united states. we could be required to expend significant financial and human resources to remediate failures to comply with applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines. in addition, civil and criminal penalties, including exclusion under medicaid or medicare, could result from regulatory violations. any one or more of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. medical devices are cleared or approved for one or more specific intended uses and performance claims must be adequately substantiated. promoting a device for an off-label use or making misleading or unsubstantiated claims could result in government enforcement action. furthermore, our facilities are subject to periodic inspection by the fda and other federal, state and foreign government authorities, which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to certain regulations, including the fda's quality system regulation, which requires periodic audits, design controls, quality control testing and documentation procedures, as well as complaint evaluations and investigation. in addition, any facilities assembling convenience kits that include drug components and are registered as drug repackaging establishments are also subject to current good manufacturing practices requirements for drugs. the fda also requires the reporting of certain adverse events and product malfunctions and may require the reporting of recalls or other field safety corrective actions. issues identified through such inspections and reports may result in fda enforcement action through any of the actions discussed above. moreover, issues identified through such inspections and reports may require significant resources to resolve. we are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse laws, regulation and enforcement; our failure to comply with those laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse regulation and enforcement by the federal government and the governments of those states and foreign countries in which we conduct our business. the laws that may affect our ability to operate include: the federal healthcare anti-kickback statute, which, among other things, prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully offering or paying remuneration to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as medicare and medicaid, or soliciting payment for such referrals, purchases, orders and recommendations; federal false claims laws which, among other things, prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, false or fraudulent claims for payment from the federal government, including medicare, medicaid or other third-party payors; the federal health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996 ( hipaa ), which prohibits schemes to defraud any healthcare benefit program and false statements relating to healthcare matters; and state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers. if our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws or any other government regulations, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, the exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs and imprisonment of personnel, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. the risk of our being found to have violated these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. further, the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act (collectively, the affordable care act ), imposed annual reporting and disclosure requirements on device manufacturers for any transfer of value made or distributed to physicians or teaching hospitals. the reported information is made publicly available in a searchable format. in addition, device manufacturers are required to report and disclose any investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members during the preceding calendar year. failure to submit required information may result in civil monetary penalties for each payment, transfer 19 of value or ownership or investment interests not reported in an annual submission, up to an aggregate of $150,000 per year (and up to an aggregate of $1 million per year for knowing failures ). in addition, there has been a recent trend of increased federal and state regulation of payments made to healthcare providers. some states, such as california, connecticut, nevada and massachusetts, mandate implementation of compliance programs that include the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation for consulting and other services, and other remuneration to healthcare providers. the shifting commercial compliance environment and the need to build and maintain robust and expandable systems to comply with the different compliance and/or reporting requirements among a number of jurisdictions increases the possibility that we may inadvertently violate one or more of the requirements, resulting in increased compliance costs that could adversely impact our results of operations. we may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability and warranty claims, as well as product recalls, any of which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. furthermore, our reputation as a medical device company may be damaged if one or more of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective. our businesses expose us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture and marketing of our products. in particular, our medical device products are often used in surgical and intensive care settings for procedures involving seriously ill patients. in addition, many of our products are designed to be implanted in the human body for varying periods of time. product defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks with respect to products we manufacture or sell could result in patient injury or death. in addition, in connection with the divestitures of our former non-medical businesses, we agreed to retain certain liabilities related to those businesses, which include, among other things, liability for products manufactured prior to the date on which we completed the sale of the business. product liability and warranty claims often involve very large or indeterminate amounts, including punitive damages. the magnitude of potential losses from product liability lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time, and the related legal defense costs may be significant. we could experience material warranty or product liability losses in the future and incur significant costs to defend these claims. in addition, if any of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective, we may voluntarily participate, or be required by regulatory authorities to participate, in a recall of that product. in the event of a recall, we may lose sales and be exposed to individual or class-action litigation claims. moreover, negative publicity regarding a quality or safety issue, whether accurate or inaccurate, could harm our reputation, decrease demand for our products, lead to product withdrawals or impair our ability to successfully launch and market our products in the future. product liability, warranty and recall costs may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the ongoing volatility in the domestic and global financial markets, combined with a continuation of constrained global credit markets could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we are subject to risks arising from adverse changes in general domestic and global economic conditions. the economic slowdown and disruption of credit markets that occurred in recent years led to recessionary conditions and depressed levels of consumer and commercial spending, resulting in reductions, delays or cancellations of purchases of our products and services. despite some improvements in recent years, economic conditions continue to cause disruption in some financial markets, resulting in, among other things, diminished liquidity and credit availability. we cannot predict the duration or extent of any economic recovery or the extent to which our customers will return to more typical spending behaviors. the continuation of the present broadly applicable economic trends of weak economic growth, constricted credit, public sector austerity measures in response to public budget deficits and foreign currency volatility, particularly with respect to the euro, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. additionally, our customers, particularly in italy, spain, portugal and greece, have extended or delayed payments for products and services already provided, which has increased our focus on collectability with respect to our accounts receivable from these customers. to date, we have not experienced an inordinate amount of payment defaults by our customers, and we have sufficient lending commitments in place to enable us to fund our foreseeable additional operating needs. however, the ongoing uncertainty in the european financial markets, combined with a continuation of constrained european credit markets creates a risk that some of our european customers and suppliers may be unable to access liquidity. as of december 31, 2017 and 2016 , our aggregate net current and long term trade accounts receivable in italy, spain, portugal and greece were $49.1 million and $51.1 million , respectively. in 2017 , 2016 and 20 2015 , net revenues from these countries were approximately 6% , 7% and 7% of total net revenues, respectively, and average days that accounts receivable from these countries were outstanding were 154 , 182 and 204 days, respectively. although we maintain allowances for doubtful accounts to cover the estimated losses which may occur when customers cannot make their required payments, we cannot assure that the loss rate will not increase in the future given the volatility in the worldwide economy. if our allowance for doubtful accounts is insufficient to address receivables we ultimately determine are uncollectible, we would be required to incur additional charges, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. moreover, our inability to collect outstanding receivables could adversely affect our financial condition and cash flow from operations. in addition, adverse economic and financial market conditions may result in future impairment charges with respect to our goodwill and other intangible assets, which would not directly affect our liquidity but could have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results. our strategic initiatives, including acquisitions, may not produce the intended growth in revenue and operating income and may have material impacts on our operating results. our strategic initiatives include making significant investments designed to achieve revenue growth and to enable us to meet or exceed margin improvement targets. if we do not achieve the expected benefits from these investments or otherwise fail to execute on our strategic initiatives, we may not achieve the growth improvement we are targeting and our results of operations may be adversely affected. in addition, as part of our strategy for growth, we have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions and divestitures and enter into strategic alliances such as joint ventures and joint development agreements. however, we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions or integrate acquisitions successfully, and our joint ventures or strategic alliances may not prove to be successful. in this regard, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration of acquired operations, technologies, services and products and the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. moreover, the products and technologies that we acquire may not be successful or may require us to devote significantly greater development, marketing and other resources, as well as significantly greater investments, than we anticipated. we could also experience negative effects on our results of operations and financial condition from acquisition-related charges, amortization of intangible assets, asset impairment charges and other matters that could arise in connection with the acquisition of a company or business, including matters related to internal control over financial reporting and regulatory compliance, as well as the short-term effects of increased costs on results of operations. although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in any particular transaction, there can be no assurance that we will identify all such risks or the magnitude of the risks. in addition, prior acquisitions have resulted, and future acquisitions could result, in the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness and expenditures. future acquisitions may also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities. there can be no assurance that difficulties encountered in connection with acquisitions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in connection with certain of our completed acquisitions, we have agreed to pay consideration that is contingent upon the achievement of specified objectives, such as receipt of regulatory approval, commercialization of a product or achievement of sales targets. as of the acquisition date, we record a contingent liability representing the estimated fair value of the contingent consideration we expect to pay. as of december 31, 2017 , we accrued $272.1 million of contingent consideration, of which, the vast majority related to our acquisition of neotract. on a quarterly basis, we revalue these obligations and record increases or decreases in their fair value as an adjustment to operating earnings, which could have a material impact on our results of operations. in addition, actual payments may differ materially from the amount of the contingent liability we have recorded, which could have a material impact on our cash flows and liquidity. for information regarding assumptions related to our contingent consideration liabilities, see critical accounting policies and estimates under item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations included in this annual report on form 10-k. for additional information regarding our acquisitions, see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. health care reform may have a material adverse effect on our industry and our business. political, economic and regulatory developments have effected fundamental changes in the healthcare industry. the affordable care act substantially changed the way health care is financed by both government and private insurers. it also encourages improvements in the quality of health care products and services and significantly impacts the united states pharmaceutical and medical device industries. among other things, the affordable care act: 21 established a 2.3% excise tax on sales of medical devices with respect to any entity that manufactures or imports specified medical devices offered for sale in the united states, although this tax was suspended for 2016 and 2017 as a result of the enactment of the consolidated appropriations act of 2016 and has been further suspended for 2018 and 2019 as a result of the enactment of the consolidated appropriations act of 2018; established a new patient-centered outcomes research institute to oversee, identify priorities in and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research; implemented payment system reforms, including a national pilot program to encourage hospitals, physicians and other providers to improve the coordination, quality and efficiency of certain health care services through bundled payment models; and created an independent payment advisory board that will submit recommendations to reduce medicare spending if projected medicare spending exceeds a specified growth rate. in 2015 , we recorded an expense of $10.2 million with respect to the medical device excise tax. while, as noted above, the excise tax has been suspended through 2019,we will again be subject to the excise tax in 2020 unless the suspension is extended further. we cannot predict at this time the full impact of the affordable care act or other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in this regard, several legislative initiatives to repeal and replace the affordable care act were proposed, but not adopted in 2017. however, the recently adopted tax cuts and jobs act eliminated the individual mandate under the affordable care act, which has resulted in increased uncertainty regarding insurance premium prices for participants in insurance exchanges under the act, and may have other effects. the longer-term viability of, or the nature of any modification of, or legislative substitution for, the affordable care act is highly uncertain, and we cannot predict the effect that any of these events would have on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we are subject to risks associated with our non-united states operations. we have significant manufacturing and distribution facilities, research and development facilities, sales personnel and customer support operations in a number of countries outside the united states, including belgium, the czech republic, germany, ireland, malaysia and mexico. in addition, a significant portion of our non-united states revenues are derived from sales to third party distributors. as of december 31, 2017 , 75% of our full-time and temporary employees were employed in countries outside of the united states, and approximately 45% of our net property, plant and equipment was located outside the united states. in addition, for the years ended december 31, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 approximately 42% , 46% and 47% , respectively, of our net revenues (based on the teleflex entity generating the sale) were derived from operations outside the united states. our international operations are subject to risks inherent in doing business outside the united states, including: exchange controls, currency restrictions and fluctuations in currency values; trade protection measures; potentially costly and burdensome import or export requirements; laws and business practices that favor local companies; changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and procedures; subsidies or increased access to capital for firms that currently are or may emerge as competitors in countries in which we have operations; substantial foreign tax liabilities, including potentially negative consequences resulting from changes in tax laws; restrictions and taxes related to the repatriation of foreign earnings; differing labor regulations; additional united states and foreign government controls or regulations; difficulties in the protection of intellectual property; and unsettled political and economic conditions and possible terrorist attacks against american interests. in addition, the united states foreign corrupt practices act (the fcpa ) and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws in non-united states jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper 22 payments to non-united states officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. the fcpa also imposes accounting standards and requirements on publicly traded united states corporations and their foreign affiliates, which, among other things, are intended to prevent the diversion of corporate funds to the payment of bribes and other improper payments to government officials, and to prevent the establishment of off the books slush funds from which such improper payments can be made. because of the predominance of government-sponsored health care systems around the world, many of our customer relationships outside of the united states are with government entities and are therefore subject to such anti-bribery laws. our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. however, we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced government corruption to some degree. despite meaningful measures that we undertake to facilitate lawful conduct, which include training and compliance programs and internal control policies and procedures, we may not always prevent reckless or criminal acts by our employees, distributors or other agents. in addition, we may be exposed to liability due to pre-acquisition conduct of employees, distributors or other agents of businesses or operations we acquire. violations of anti-bribery laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our operations, involve significant management distraction and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we also could be subject to severe penalties and other adverse consequences, including criminal and civil penalties, disgorgement, substantial expenditures related to further enhancements to our procedures, policies and controls, personnel changes and other remedial actions, as well as harm to our reputation. furthermore, we are subject to the export controls and economic embargo rules and regulations of the united states, including the export administration regulations and trade sanctions against embargoed countries, which are administered by the office of foreign assets control within the department of the treasury, as well as other laws and regulations administered by the department of commerce. these regulations limit our ability to market, sell, distribute or otherwise transfer our products or technology to prohibited countries or persons. while we train our employees and contractually obligate our distributors to comply with these regulations, we cannot assure that a violation will not occur, whether knowingly or inadvertently. failure to comply with these rules and regulations may result in substantial civil and criminal penalties, including fines and the disgorgement of profits, the imposition of a court-appointed monitor, the denial of export privileges and debarment from participation in united states government contracts, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. foreign currency exchange rate, commodity price and interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. products manufactured in, and sold into, foreign markets represent a significant portion of our operations. our consolidated financial statements reflect translation of financial statements denominated in non-united states currencies to united states dollars, our reporting currency, as well as the foreign currency exchange gains and losses resulting from the remeasurement of assets and liabilities and from transactions denominated in currencies other than the primary currency of the country in which the entity operates, which we refer to as "non-functional currencies." a strengthening or weakening of the united states dollar in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries in which we sell or manufacture our products, such as the euro, will affect our united states dollar-reported revenue and income. although we have entered into forward contracts with several major financial institutions to hedge a portion of our monetary assets and liabilities and projected cash flows denominated in non-functional currencies in order to reduce the effects of currency rate fluctuations, changes in the relative values of currencies may, in some instances, have a significant effect on our results of operations. many of our products have significant plastic resin content. we also use quantities of other commodities, such as aluminum and steel. increases in the prices of these commodities could increase the costs of our products and services. we may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers, particularly with respect to those products we sell under group purchase agreements, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. increases in interest rates may adversely affect the financial health of our customers and suppliers, thereby adversely affecting their ability to buy our products and supply the components or raw materials we need. in addition, our borrowing costs could be adversely affected if interest rates increase. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 23 fluctuations in our effective tax rate and changes to tax laws may adversely affect us. as a global company, we are subject to taxation in numerous countries, states and other jurisdictions. our effective tax rate is derived from a combination of applicable tax rates in the various countries, states and other jurisdictions in which we operate. in preparing our financial statements, we estimate the amount of tax that will become payable in each of these jurisdictions. our effective tax rate may, however, differ from the estimated amount due to numerous factors, including a change in the mix of our profitability from country to country and changes in tax laws (including the impact of recently enacted united states tax legislation as discussed immediately below). any of these factors could cause us to experience an effective tax rate significantly different from previous periods or our current expectations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. the tax cuts and jobs act (the tcja ) was enacted on december 22, 2017. the tcja permanently reduces the united states corporate income tax rate from a maximum of 35% to 21%; puts into effect a territorial tax system, generally providing for, among other things, a dividends received deduction on the foreign source portion of dividends received from a foreign corporation if specified conditions are met; imposes a one-time repatriation tax on undistributed post-1986 earnings and profits of foreign subsidiaries, which are deemed repatriated for purposes of the tax; and creates, modifies or repeals many other statutory and regulatory provisions. our consolidated financial statements as of, and for the year ended december 31, 2017, include provisional amounts with respect to the deemed repatriated earnings and the revaluation of deferred tax assets and liabilities. while we believe that the provisional amounts constitute reasonable estimates, we continue to examine the impact the tcja may have on our business. once our accounting for the income tax effects of the tcja is complete, the amounts with respect to the income tax effects of the tcja may differ from the provisional amounts, possibly materially, due to, among other things, additional analysis, changes in interpretations and assumptions we have made, additional regulatory guidance that may be issued, and actions we may take as a result of the tcja. an interruption in our manufacturing or distribution operations or our supply of raw materials may adversely affect our business. many of our key products are manufactured at or distributed from single locations, and the availability of alternate facilities is limited. if operations at one or more of our facilities is suspended due to natural disasters or other events, we may not be able to timely manufacture or distribute one or more of our products at previous levels or at all. furthermore, our ability to establish replacement facilities or to substitute suppliers may be delayed due to regulations and requirements of the fda and other regulatory authorities regarding the manufacture of our products. in addition, in the event of delays or cancellations in shipments of raw materials by our suppliers, we may not be able to timely manufacture or supply the affected products at previous levels or at all. the manufacture of our products is highly exacting and complex, due in part to strict regulatory requirements. problems in the manufacturing process, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, defective raw materials and environmental factors, could lead to launch delays, product shortages, unanticipated costs, lost revenues and damage to our reputation. a failure to identify and address manufacturing problems prior to the release of products to our customers may also result in quality or safety issues. a reduction or interruption in manufacturing or distribution, or our inability to secure suitable alternative sources of raw materials or components, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our ability to attract, train, develop and retain key employees is important to our success. our success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to retain our key personnel, including our executive officers and other members of our senior management team. our success also depends, in part, on our ability to attract, train, develop and retain other key employees, including research and development, sales, marketing and operations personnel. we may experience difficulties in retaining executives and other employees due to many factors, including: the intense competition for skilled personnel in our industry; fluctuations in global economic and industry conditions; changes in our organizational structure; our restructuring initiatives; competitors' hiring practices; and the effectiveness of our compensation programs. 24 our inability to attract, train, develop and retain such personnel could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we depend upon relationships with physicians and other health care professionals. we depend on our ability to maintain strong working relationships with physicians and other healthcare professionals in connection with research and development for some of our products. we rely on these professionals to provide us with considerable knowledge and advice regarding the development and use of these products. physicians assist us as researchers, product consultants, inventors and public speakers. if we fail to maintain our working relationships with physicians and, as a result, no longer have the benefit of their knowledge and advice, our products may not be developed in a manner that is responsive to the needs and expectations of the professionals who use and support our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our technology is important to our success, and our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could put us at a competitive disadvantage. we rely on the patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws of the united states and other countries to protect our proprietary rights. although we own numerous united states and foreign patents and have submitted numerous patent applications, we cannot be assured that any pending patent applications will issue, or that any patents, issued or pending, will provide us with any competitive advantage or will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties. in addition, we rely on confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with employees and take other measures to protect our know-how and trade secrets. the steps we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of our technology by competitors or other persons who may copy or otherwise obtain and use these products or technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as in the united states. we cannot assure that current and former employees, contractors and other parties will not breach their confidentiality agreements with us, misappropriate proprietary information, copy or otherwise obtain and use our information and proprietary technology without authorization or otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. our inability to protect our proprietary technology could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. moreover, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop know-how and trade secrets comparable to ours or develop better technology than our own, which could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we have developed. our products or processes may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to pay unexpected litigation costs or damages or prevent us from selling our products. we cannot be certain that our products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of our business, including claims of alleged infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties. any such claims, whether or not meritorious, could result in litigation and divert the efforts of our personnel. if we are found liable for infringement, we may be compelled to enter into licensing agreements (which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all) or to pay damages or cease making or selling certain products. we may need to redesign some of our products or processes to avoid future infringement liability. any of the foregoing events could be detrimental to our business. other pending and future litigation may involve significant costs and adversely affect our business. we are party to various lawsuits and claims arising in the normal course of business involving, among other things, contracts, intellectual property, import and export regulations, employment and environmental matters. the defense of these lawsuits may divert our management's attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. in addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. while we do not believe that any litigation in which we are currently engaged would have such an adverse effect, the outcome of litigation, including regulatory matters, is often difficult to predict, and we cannot assure that the outcome of pending or future litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 25 our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. as of december 31, 2017 , we had total consolidated indebtedness of 2.3 billion . our substantial level of indebtedness increases the risk that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to satisfy our debt obligations. it could also have significant effects on our business. for example, it could: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; limit our ability to borrow additional funds for such general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; restrict us from pursuing business opportunities; and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness. if we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or if future borrowings are not available to us in an amount sufficient to pay our indebtedness when due or to fund our other liquidity needs, we may be forced to: refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness; sell assets; reduce or delay capital expenditures; or seek to raise additional capital. we may not be able to effect any of these actions on commercially reasonable terms or at all. our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our financial condition at the time, the restrictions in the instruments governing our outstanding indebtedness and other factors, including market conditions. our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt service obligations, or to refinance or restructure our obligations on commercially reasonable terms or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our debt agreements impose restrictions on our business, which could prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking some corporate actions and may adversely affect our ability to respond to changes in our business and manage our operations. our senior credit agreement and the indentures governing our 5.25% senior notes due 2024 (the "2024 notes"), our 4.875% senior notes due 2026 (the "2026 notes") and our 4.625% senior notes due 2027 (the "2027 notes" and, together with the 2024 notes, the "senior notes") contain covenants that, among other things, impose significant restrictions on our business. the restrictions that these covenants place on us and our restricted subsidiaries include limitations on our and their ability to, among other things: incur additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock or otherwise disqualified stock; create liens; pay dividends, make investments or make other restricted payments; sell assets; use the proceeds of permitted sales of our assets; merge, consolidate, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and enter into transactions with our affiliates. in addition, our senior credit agreement also contains financial covenants, including covenants requiring maintenance of a consolidated leverage ratio, a secured leverage ratio and a consolidated interest coverage ratio, calculated in accordance with the terms of the senior credit agreement. a breach of any covenants under any one or 26 more of our debt agreements could result in a default, which if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt. in addition, any debt agreements we enter into in the future may further limit our ability to enter into certain types of transactions. the warrant transactions entered into in connection with the issuance of our convertible notes may adversely affect the value of our common stock. in connection with the issuance of our 3.875% convertible senior subordinated notes due 2017 (the "convertible notes"), we entered into privately negotiated hedge transactions with two counterparties, which we refer to as the "hedge counterparties." the hedge transactions involved the issuance to us of call options that covered the number of shares of our common stock underlying the convertible notes. the call options were designed to reduce the dilution with respect to our common stock we were required to issue and/or cash payments we were required to make upon conversion of the convertible notes. separately, we also entered into privately negotiated warrant transactions with the hedge counterparties under which we have issued shares of our common stock, and very likely will be obligated to issue additional shares of our common stock on various warrant expiration dates that occur through august 31, 2018, at an exercise price of $74.65, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments. when convertible notes were converted in accordance with their terms, the hedge transactions were effected through our exercise of call options; when we purchased convertible notes from the holders in exchange for cash and our common stock, the call options with respect to shares underlying those convertible notes were canceled, and the number of outstanding warrants was reduced. following the maturity of the convertible notes on august 1, 2017, no further call options were outstanding, and warrants to purchase 724,648 shares of our common stock remained outstanding. subsequent warrant exercises have had, and based on recent market prices of our common stock, will continue to have, a dilutive effect with respect to our common stock. between november 1, 2017 and december 31, 2017, warrants to purchase 165,034 shares were exercised and, after retaining 43,251 shares to cover payment of the exercise price and paying cash in lieu of fractional shares, we delivered 105,638 shares to the hedge counterparties. as of december 31, 2017, warrants to purchase 559,614 shares of our common stock remained outstanding. if we so elect, in lieu of delivering our common stock upon exercise of the warrants, we may make cash payments to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock exceeds the exercise price of the warrants on any expiration date of the warrants. in addition, under applicable accounting guidance, changes in the share price of our common stock can have a significant impact on the number of shares that we must include in the fully diluted earnings per share calculation with respect to the warrants, which, in turn, could impact our reported financial results. based on the average market price of our common stock during 2017 , 0.5 million shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants were included in the total diluted shares outstanding for the year ended december 31, 2017 . for additional information, see financing arrangements under item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations included in this annual report on form 10-k. in connection with establishing their positions under the convertible note hedge transactions and the warrant transactions, the hedge counterparties (and/or their affiliates) entered into various cash-settled over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to our common stock concurrently with, or shortly following, the pricing of the convertible notes. the hedge counterparties (and/or their affiliates) may, in their sole discretion, with or without notice, modify their hedge positions from time to time by entering into or unwinding various over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to shares of our common stock, and/or by purchasing or selling shares of our common stock in privately negotiated transactions and/or open market transactions. the effect, if any, of these transactions and activities on the market price of our common stock will depend in part on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time, but any of these activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock. we may issue additional shares of our common stock or instruments convertible into our common stock, which could lower the price of our common stock. we are not restricted from issuing additional shares of our common stock or other instruments convertible into our common stock. as of december 31, 2017 , we had outstanding approximately 45.2 million shares of our common stock, options to purchase approximately 1.7 million shares of our common stock (of which approximately 1.2 million were vested as of that date), restricted stock units covering approximately 0.2 million shares of our common stock (which are expected to vest over the next three years) and approximately 9,600 shares of our common stock to be distributed from our deferred compensation plan. as of december 31, 2017 , 4.5 million shares of our common stock are reserved for issuance upon the exercise of stock options and upon the exercise of the warrants issued in connection with the convertible notes. we cannot predict the size of future issuances or the effect, if any, that they may have on the market price for our common stock. 27 if we issue additional shares of our common stock or instruments convertible into our common stock, such issuances may materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock. furthermore, our issuance of shares following the exercise of some or all of the outstanding stock options and warrants, as well as the vesting of restricted stock units will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders, and any sales in the public market of such shares of our common stock could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. in addition, the issuance and sale of substantial amounts of our common stock, including common stock issued as a result of the exercise of stock options and warrants and vesting of restricted stock units could depress the price of our common stock. disruption of critical information systems or material breaches in the security of our systems may adversely affect our business and customer relationships. we rely on information technology systems to process, transmit, and store electronic information in our day-to-day operations. we also rely on our technology infrastructure, among other functions, to enable us to interact with customers and suppliers, fulfill orders, generate invoices, collect and make payments, ship products, provide support to customers, fulfill contractual obligations and otherwise conduct business. our internal information technology systems, as well as those systems maintained by third-party providers, may be subjected to computer viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized access attempts, and cyber-attacks, any of which could result in data leaks or otherwise compromise our confidential or proprietary information and disrupt our operations. cyber-attacks are becoming more sophisticated and frequent, and in some cases have caused significant harm. although we have taken numerous measures to protect our information systems and enhance data security, we cannot assure that these measures will prevent security breaches that could have a significant impact on our business, reputation and financial results. if we fail to monitor, maintain or protect our information technology systems and data integrity effectively or fail to anticipate, plan for or manage significant disruptions to these systems, we could, among other things, lose customers, have difficulty preventing fraud, have disputes with customers, physicians and other health care professionals, be subject to regulatory sanctions or penalties, incur expenses, lose revenues or suffer other adverse consequences. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. regulations related to conflict minerals may increase our costs and adversely affect our business. in 2012, the sec promulgated rules under the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act regarding disclosure of the use of tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, known as "conflict minerals," included in components of products either manufactured by public companies or for which public companies have contracted to manufacture. these rules require that we undertake due diligence efforts to determine whether such minerals originated from the democratic republic of congo (the drc ) or an adjoining country and, if so, whether such minerals helped finance armed conflict in the drc or an adjoining country. in accordance with applicable regulations, we have filed conflict minerals reports annually, beginning in 2014. as discussed in these reports, we have determined that certain of our products contain the specified minerals, and we have undertaken, and continue to undertake, efforts to identify where such minerals originated. we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the sources of the specified minerals used in our products. these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products. our customers may require that our products be free of conflict minerals, and our revenues and margins may be adversely affected if we are unable to provide assurances to our customers that our products are drc conflict free (generally, the product does not contain conflict minerals originating in the drc or an adjoining country that directly or indirectly finance or benefit specified armed groups) due to, among other things, our inability to procure conflict free minerals at a reasonable price, or at all. moreover, we may be adversely affected if we are unable to pass through any increased costs associated with meeting customer demands that we provide products that are drc conflict free. we also may face reputational challenges if our due diligence efforts do not enable us to verify the origins of all conflict minerals or to determine that any conflict minerals used in products we manufacture or in products manufactured by others for us are drc conflict-free. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental and health and safety liabilities. we are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things: the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; and 28 the health and safety of our employees. these laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances, which may include claims for personal injury or cleanup, will not exceed our estimates or will not adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our workforce covered by collective bargaining and similar agreements could cause interruptions in our provision of products and services. as of december 31, 2017 , approximately 10% of our employees in the united states and in other countries were covered by union contracts or collective bargaining arrangements. it is likely that a portion of our workforce will remain covered by collective bargaining and similar agreements for the foreseeable future. strikes or work stoppages could occur that would adversely impact our relationships with our customers and our ability to conduct our business. we may not pay dividends on our common stock in the future. holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends only as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. the declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including our financial condition, earnings, requirements under covenants in our debt instruments, legal requirements and other factors as our board of directors deems relevant. we cannot assure that our cash dividend will not be reduced, or eliminated, in the future. certain provisions of our corporate governing documents, delaware law and our senior notes could discourage, delay, or prevent a merger or acquisition. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock. for example, our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to determine the number of shares in a series, the consideration, dividend rights, liquidation preferences, terms of redemption, conversion or exchange rights and voting rights, if any, of unissued series of preferred stock, without any vote or action by our stockholders. thus, our board of directors can authorize and issue shares of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting or other rights of holders of our common stock. we are also subject to section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our common stock. these provisions could have the effect of delaying or deterring a third party from acquiring us even if an acquisition might be in the best interest of our stockholders, and accordingly could reduce the market price of our common stock. certain provisions in the indentures governing the senior notes could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. if an acquisition event constitutes a change of control, as defined in the indentures governing the senior notes, holders of such notes will have the right to require us to purchase their notes in cash (in the case of the 2027 notes, the right will apply if the change in control is coupled with a ratings downgrade). our obligations under the senior notes could increase the cost of acquiring us or otherwise discourage a third party from acquiring us or removing incumbent management, and accordingly could cause a reduction in the market price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk we are exposed to certain financial risks, specifically fluctuations in market interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and, to a lesser extent, commodity prices. we use derivative financial instruments to manage or reduce the impact of some of these risks. we do not enter into derivative instruments for trading purposes. we are also exposed to changes in the market traded price of our common stock as it influences the valuation of stock options and their effect on earnings. interest rate risk we are exposed to changes in interest rates as a result of our borrowing activities and our cash balances. the table below provides information regarding the interest rates by year of maturity for our fixed and variable rate debt obligations. variable interest rates on december 31, 2017 were determined using a base rate of the one-month libor rate plus the applicable spread. year of maturity 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 thereafter total (dollars in thousands) fixed rate debt $ $ $ $ $ $ 1,150,000 $ 1,150,000 average interest rate % % % % % 4.848 % 4.848 % variable rate debt $ 86,625 $ 37,500 $ 51,563 $ 70,312 $ 874,000 $ $ 1,120,000 average interest rate 2.845 % 3.569 % 3.569 % 3.569 % 3.516 % % 3.472 % a change of 1.0% in variable interest rates would increase or decrease annual interest expense by $7.1 million based on our outstanding debt as of december 31, 2017 . foreign currency risk we are exposed to currency fluctuations in connection with transactions, as well as monetary assets and liabilities, denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of certain subsidiaries. we enter into forward contracts with several major financial institutions to hedge the risk associated with these exposures; these contracts generally involve the purchase or sale, at designated future dates, of specified amounts of a foreign currency while simultaneously committing to an opposite way sale or purchase of a specified amount of u.s. dollars or euros, based on the exchange rate at the time of entry into the contract. the contracts we enter into to hedge transactions denominated in non-functional currencies are designated as cash flow hedges. the contracts to hedge monetary asset and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies are not designated as cash flow, fair value or net investment hedges. see note 9 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for information regarding the accounting treatment of designated and non-designated hedge contracts. the following table provides information regarding our open foreign currency forward contracts at december 31, 2017 , which mature during 2018 . as of december 31, 2017 , the total notional amount for the designated and non-designated contracts, expressed in u.s. dollars, is $88.5 million and $110.6 million , respectively. as of december 31, 2016 , the total notional amount for the designated and non-designated contracts, expressed in u.s. dollars, is $101.8 million and $73.4 million , respectively. forward contract notional amounts presented below are expressed in the stated currencies. 60 forward currency contracts buy/(sell) (in thousands) designated non-designated australian dollar (11,240 ) (11,641 ) british pound (5,700 ) (8,933 ) canadian dollar (9,726 ) 7,231 chinese renminbi (105,863 ) czech koruna 265,226 95,473 euro (6,537 ) 55,185 indian rupee (631,139 ) japanese yen (762,550 ) (447,600 ) korean won (3,362,400 ) (3,785,050 ) malaysian ringgit 55,890 13,727 mexican peso 321,710 49,831 polish zloty (12,023 ) singapore dollar 7,040 south african rand (45,000 ) (52,921 ) swiss franc (3,450 ) 4,150 united states dollar 1,239 (24,060 )risk factors in addition to the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k, you should carefully consider the following factors which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or stock price. the risks below are not the only risks we face. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or stock price. we face strong competition. our failure to successfully develop and market new products could adversely affect our business. the medical device industry is highly competitive. we compete with many domestic and foreign medical device companies ranging from small start-up enterprises that might sell only a single or limited number of competitive products or compete only in a specific market segment, to companies that are larger and more established than us, have a broad range of competitive products, participate in numerous markets and have access to significantly greater financial and marketing resources than we do. in addition, the medical device industry is characterized by extensive product research and development and rapid technological advances. the future success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability to design and manufacture new competitive products and enhance existing products. our product development efforts may require us to make substantial investments. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop new products, enhance existing products or achieve market acceptance of our products, due to, among other things, our inability to: identify viable new products; maintain sufficient liquidity to fund our investments in research and development and product acquisitions; 16 obtain adequate intellectual property protection; gain market acceptance of new products; or successfully obtain regulatory approvals. in addition, our competitors currently may be developing, or may develop in the future, products that provide better features, clinical outcomes or economic value than those that we currently offer or subsequently develop. our failure to successfully develop and market new products or enhance existing products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our customers depend on third party coverage and reimbursements, and the failure of healthcare programs to provide sufficient coverage and reimbursement for our medical products could adversely affect us. the ability of our customers to obtain coverage and reimbursement for our products is important to our business. demand for many of our existing and new medical products is, and will continue to be, affected by the extent to which government healthcare programs and private health insurers reimburse our customers for patients' medical expenses in the countries where we do business. even when we develop or acquire a promising new product, demand for the product may be limited unless reimbursement approval is obtained from private and government third party payors. internationally, healthcare reimbursement systems vary significantly. in some countries, medical centers are constrained by fixed budgets, regardless of the volume and nature of patient treatment. other countries require application for, and approval of, government or third party reimbursement. without both favorable coverage determinations by, and the financial support of, government and third party insurers, the market for many of our medical products would be adversely affected. in this regard, we cannot be sure that third party payors will maintain the current level of coverage and reimbursement to our customers for use of our existing products. adverse coverage determinations, including reductions in the amount of reimbursement, could harm our business by discouraging customers' selection of, and reducing the prices they are willing to pay for, our products. in addition, as a result of their purchasing power, third party payors have implemented and are continuing to implement cost cutting measures such as seeking discounts, price reductions or other incentives from medical products suppliers and imposing limitations on coverage and reimbursement for medical technologies and procedures. these trends could compel us to reduce prices for our products and could cause a decrease in the size of the market or a potential increase in competition that could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may not be successful in achieving expected operating efficiencies and sustaining or improving operating expense reductions, and may experience business disruptions associated with restructuring, facility consolidations, realignment, cost reduction and other strategic initiatives. over the past several years we have implemented a number of restructuring, realignment and cost reduction initiatives, including facility consolidations, organizational realignments and reductions in our workforce, and we may engage in similar efforts in the future. while we have realized some efficiencies from these initiatives, we may not realize the benefits of these or future initiatives to the extent we anticipated. further, such benefits may be realized later than expected, and the ongoing difficulties in implementing these measures may be greater than anticipated, which could cause us to incur additional costs or result in business disruptions. in addition, if these measures are not successful or sustainable, we may be compelled to undertake additional restructuring, realignment and cost reduction efforts, which could result in significant additional charges. moreover, if our restructuring, realignment and cost reduction efforts prove ineffective, our ability to achieve our strategic and business plan goals may be adversely affected. in addition, as part of our efforts to increase operating efficiencies, we plan to upgrade the existing enterprise resource planning, or erp, system used by our emea segment to our global erp system in 2019. in connection with this upgrade, we could experience business disruptions, which could adversely affect commercial activities such as our ability to receive and process orders and deliver products, negatively impact customer relationships and divert the attention of management away from daily operations. in addition, any delays in the implementation of this initiative could cause us to incur additional unexpected costs. should we experience such difficulties, our business, cash flows and results of operations could be adversely affected. 17 a significant portion of our united states revenues is derived from sales to distributors, and destocking activity by these distributors can adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. a significant portion of our revenues in the united states is derived from sales to distributors, who, in turn, sell our products to hospitals and other health care institutions. from time to time, these distributors may decide to reduce their levels of inventory with regard to certain of our products, a practice we refer to as destocking. a distributor's decision to reduce inventory levels with respect to our products may be based on a number of factors, such as distributor expectations regarding demand for a particular product, distributor buying decisions (including decisions to purchase competing products), changes in distributor policies regarding the maintenance of inventory levels, economic conditions and other factors. for example, during the third quarter of 2016, we experienced a decline in purchases by our united states distributors that adversely affected our revenues and results of operations. we believe the reduction resulted from the distributors' expectations of a less severe 2016-2017 flu season, which resulted in reduced levels of purchasing with respect to certain of our products that are used for treatment of hospitalized patients suffering from the flu. following such instances of reduced purchases, distributors may revert to previous purchasing levels; nevertheless, we cannot assure that distributors will, in fact, increase purchases of our products in this manner. a decline in the level of product purchases by our united states distributors in the future could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations during a reporting period, and an extended decline in such product purchases could have a longer term material adverse effect. we are subject to extensive government regulation, which may require us to incur significant expenses to ensure compliance. our failure to comply with those regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our products are classified as medical devices and are subject to extensive regulation in the united states by the fda and by comparable government agencies in other countries. the regulations govern, among other things, the development, design, clearance, approval, manufacturing, labeling, importing and exporting and sale and marketing of many of our products. moreover, these regulations are subject to future change. in the united states, before we can market a new medical device, or a new use of, or claim for, or significant modification to, an existing product, we generally must first receive either 510(k) clearance or de novo authorization or approval of a premarket approval application, or pma, from the fda. similarly, most major markets for medical devices outside the united states also require clearance, approval or compliance with certain standards before a product can be commercially marketed. in the european union, a new medical device regulation was published in 2017 that, when it enters into full force in 2020, will include significant additional pre- and post-market requirements. the process of obtaining regulatory clearances and approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the fda and certain foreign government authorities, can be costly and time consuming, and clearances and approvals might not be granted for new products on a timely basis, if at all. in addition, once a device has been cleared or approved, a new clearance or approval may be required before the device may be modified or its labeling changed. furthermore, the fda or a foreign government authority may make its review and clearance or approval process more rigorous, which could require us to generate additional clinical or other data, and expend more time and effort, in obtaining future product clearances or approvals. the regulatory clearance and approval process may result in, among other things, delayed realization of product revenues, substantial additional costs or limitations on indicated uses of products, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. even after a product has received marketing approval or clearance, such product approval or clearance can be withdrawn or limited due to unforeseen problems with the device or issues relating to its application. failure to comply with applicable regulations could lead to adverse effects on our business, which could include: partial suspension or total shutdown of manufacturing; product shortages; delays in product manufacturing; warning or untitled letters; fines or civil penalties; delays in or restrictions on obtaining new regulatory clearances or approvals; withdrawal or suspension of required clearances, approvals or licenses; product seizures or recalls; 18 injunctions; criminal prosecution; advisories or other field actions; operating restrictions; and prohibitions against exporting of products to, or importing products from, countries outside the united states. we could be required to expend significant financial and human resources to remediate failures to comply with applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines. in addition, civil and criminal penalties, including exclusion under medicaid or medicare, could result from regulatory violations. any one or more of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. medical devices are cleared or approved for one or more specific intended uses and performance claims must be adequately substantiated. promoting a device for an off-label use or making misleading or unsubstantiated claims could result in government enforcement action. furthermore, our facilities are subject to periodic inspection by the fda and other federal, state and foreign government authorities, which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to certain regulations, including the fda's quality system regulation, which requires, among other things, periodic audits, design controls, quality control testing and documentation procedures, as well as complaint evaluations and investigation. in addition, any facilities assembling convenience kits that include drug components and are registered as drug repackaging establishments are also subject to current good manufacturing practices requirements for drugs. the fda also requires the reporting of certain adverse events and product malfunctions and may require the reporting of recalls or other field safety corrective actions. issues identified through such inspections and reports may result in fda enforcement action through any of the actions discussed above. moreover, issues identified through such inspections and reports may require significant resources to resolve. we are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse laws, regulation and enforcement; our failure to comply with those laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse regulation and enforcement by the federal government and the governments of those states and foreign countries in which we conduct our business. the laws that may affect our ability to operate include: the federal healthcare anti-kickback statute, which, among other things, prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully offering or paying remuneration to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as medicare and medicaid, or soliciting payment for such referrals, purchases, orders and recommendations; federal false claims laws which, among other things, prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, false or fraudulent claims for payment from the federal government, including medicare, medicaid or other third-party payors; the federal health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996 ( hipaa ), which prohibits schemes to defraud any healthcare benefit program and false statements relating to healthcare matters; and state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers. if our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws or any other government regulations, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, the exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs and imprisonment of personnel, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. the risk of our being found to have violated these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. further, the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act (collectively, the affordable care act ), imposed annual reporting and disclosure requirements on device manufacturers for any transfer of value made or distributed to physicians or teaching hospitals. effective january 2022, we will also be required to collect and report information on payments or transfers of value to physician 19 assistants, nurse practitioners, clinical nurse specialists, certified registered nurse anesthetists and certified nurse-midwives. the reported information is made publicly available in a searchable format. in addition, device manufacturers are required to report and disclose any investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members during the preceding calendar year. failure to submit required information may result in civil monetary penalties for each payment, transfer of value or ownership or investment interests not reported in an annual submission, up to an aggregate of $150,000 per year (and up to an aggregate of $1 million per year for knowing failures ). in addition, there has been a recent trend of increased federal and state regulation of payments made to healthcare providers. some states, such as california, connecticut, nevada and massachusetts, mandate implementation of compliance programs that include the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation for consulting and other services, and other remuneration to healthcare providers. the shifting commercial compliance environment and the need to build and maintain robust and expandable systems to comply with the different compliance and/or reporting requirements among a number of jurisdictions increases the possibility that we may inadvertently violate one or more of the requirements, resulting in increased compliance costs that could adversely impact our results of operations. we may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability and warranty claims, as well as product recalls, any of which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. furthermore, our reputation as a medical device company may be damaged if one or more of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective. our businesses expose us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture and marketing of our products. in particular, our medical device products are often used in surgical and intensive care settings for procedures involving seriously ill patients. in addition, many of our products are designed to be implanted in the human body for varying periods of time. product defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks with respect to products we manufacture or sell could result in patient injury or death. in addition, in connection with the divestitures of our former non-medical businesses, we agreed to retain certain liabilities related to those businesses, which include, among other things, liability for products manufactured prior to the date on which we completed the sale of the business. product liability and warranty claims often involve very large or indeterminate amounts, including punitive damages. the magnitude of potential losses from product liability lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time, and the related legal defense costs may be significant. we could experience material warranty or product liability losses in the future and incur significant costs to defend these claims. in addition, if any of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective, we may voluntarily participate, or be required by regulatory authorities to participate, in a recall of that product. in the event of a recall, we may lose sales and be exposed to individual or class-action litigation claims. moreover, negative publicity regarding a quality or safety issue, whether accurate or inaccurate, could harm our reputation, decrease demand for our products, lead to product withdrawals or impair our ability to successfully launch and market our products in the future. product liability, warranty and recall costs may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the ongoing volatility in the domestic and global financial markets, combined with a continuation of constrained global credit markets could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we are subject to risks arising from adverse changes in general domestic and global economic conditions. the economic slowdown and disruption of credit markets that occurred several years ago led to recessionary conditions and depressed levels of consumer and commercial spending, resulting in reductions, delays or cancellations of purchases of our products and services. despite improvements in recent years, particularly in the united states, economic conditions continue to cause disruption in some financial markets, resulting in, among other things, diminished liquidity and credit availability. we cannot predict the duration or extent of any economic recovery or the extent to which our customers will return to more typical spending behaviors. the continuation in a number of markets of weak economic growth, constricted credit, public sector austerity measures in response to public budget deficits and foreign currency volatility, particularly with respect to the euro, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. additionally, our customers, particularly in italy, spain, portugal and greece, have extended or delayed payments for products and services already provided, which has increased our focus on collectability with respect to our accounts receivable from these customers. to date, we have not experienced an inordinate amount of payment defaults by our customers, and we have sufficient lending commitments in place to enable us to fund our foreseeable additional 20 operating needs. however, the ongoing uncertainty in the european financial markets, combined with a continuation of constrained european credit markets creates a risk that some of our european customers and suppliers may be unable to access liquidity. as of december 31, 2018 and 2017 , our aggregate net current and long term trade accounts receivable in italy, spain, portugal and greece were $39.0 million and $49.1 million , respectively. in 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , net revenues from these countries were approximately 6% , 6% and 7% of total net revenues, respectively, and average days that accounts receivable from these countries were outstanding were 121 , 154 and 182 days, respectively. although we maintain allowances for doubtful accounts to cover the estimated losses which may occur when customers cannot make their required payments, we cannot assure that the loss rate will not increase in the future given the volatility in the worldwide economy. if our allowance for doubtful accounts is insufficient to address receivables we ultimately determine are uncollectible, we would be required to incur additional charges, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. moreover, our inability to collect outstanding receivables could adversely affect our financial condition and cash flow from operations. in addition, adverse economic and financial market conditions may result in future impairment charges with respect to our goodwill and other intangible assets, which would not directly affect our liquidity but could have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results. our strategic initiatives, including acquisitions, may not produce the intended growth in revenue and operating income, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. our strategic initiatives include making significant investments designed to achieve revenue growth and to enable us to meet or exceed margin improvement targets. if we do not achieve the expected benefits from these investments or otherwise fail to execute on our strategic initiatives, we may not achieve the growth improvement we are targeting and our results of operations may be adversely affected. in addition, as part of our strategy for growth, we have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions and divestitures and enter into strategic alliances such as joint ventures and joint development agreements. however, we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions or integrate acquisitions successfully, and our joint ventures or strategic alliances may not prove to be successful. in this regard, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration of acquired operations, technologies, services and products and the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. moreover, the products and technologies that we acquire may not be successful or may require us to devote significantly greater development, marketing and other resources, as well as significantly greater investments, than we anticipated. we could also experience negative effects on our results of operations and financial condition from acquisition-related charges, amortization of intangible assets, asset impairment charges and other matters that could arise in connection with the acquisition of a company or business, including matters related to internal control over financial reporting and regulatory compliance, as well as the short-term effects of increased costs on results of operations. although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in any particular transaction, there can be no assurance that we will identify all such risks or the magnitude of the risks. in addition, prior acquisitions have resulted, and future acquisitions could result, in the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness and expenditures. future acquisitions may also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities. there can be no assurance that difficulties encountered in connection with acquisitions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in connection with certain of our completed acquisitions, we have agreed to pay consideration that is contingent upon the achievement of specified objectives, such as receipt of regulatory approval, commercialization of a product or achievement of sales targets. as of the acquisition date, we record a contingent liability representing the estimated fair value of the contingent consideration we expect to pay. on a quarterly basis, we reassess these obligations and, in the event our estimate of the fair value of the contingent consideration changes, we record increases or decreases in the fair value as an adjustment to operating earnings, which could have a material impact on our results of operations. as of december 31, 2018 , we accrued $304.2 million of contingent consideration, most of which related to our acquisition of neotract. in addition, actual payments may differ materially from the amount of the contingent liability , which could have a material impact on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. for information regarding assumptions related to our contingent consideration liabilities, see critical accounting policies and estimates under item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations included in this annual report on form 10-k. for additional information regarding our acquisitions, see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. 21 health care reform may have a material adverse effect on our industry and our business. political, economic and regulatory developments have effected fundamental changes in the healthcare industry. the affordable care act substantially changed the way health care is financed by both government and private insurers. it also encourages improvements in the quality of health care products and services and significantly impacts the united states pharmaceutical and medical device industries. among other things, the affordable care act: established a 2.3% excise tax on sales of medical devices with respect to any entity that manufactures or imports specified medical devices offered for sale in the united states, although this tax was suspended for 2016 and 2017 as a result of the enactment of the consolidated appropriations act of 2016 and has been further suspended for 2018 and 2019 as a result of the enactment of the consolidated appropriations act of 2018; established a new patient-centered outcomes research institute to oversee, identify priorities in and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research; implemented payment system reforms, including a national pilot program to encourage hospitals, physicians and other providers to improve the coordination, quality and efficiency of certain health care services through bundled payment models; and created an independent payment advisory board that will submit recommendations to reduce medicare spending if projected medicare spending exceeds a specified growth rate. while, as noted above, the excise tax has been suspended through 2019, we may again be subject to the excise tax in 2020 unless the suspension is extended further. we cannot predict at this time the full impact of the affordable care act or other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in this regard, several legislative initiatives to repeal and replace the affordable care act were proposed, but not adopted in 2017. however, united states tax legislation adopted in december 2017 and commonly referred to as the tax cuts and jobs act ("tcja") eliminated the individual mandate under the affordable care act, which has resulted in increased uncertainty regarding insurance premium prices for participants in insurance exchanges under the act, and may have other effects. moreover, on december 14, 2008, the united states district court for the northern district of texas ruled that the individual mandate provision of the affordable care act is unconstitutional and the remainder of the act is invalid, although the court stayed its ruling pending appeal. the nature and effect of any modification or repeal of, or legislative substitution for, the affordable care act, or any court decision regarding the act's validity, is uncertain, and we cannot predict the effect that any of these events would have on the longer-term viability of the act, or on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we are subject to risks associated with our non-united states operations. we have significant manufacturing and distribution facilities, research and development facilities, sales personnel and customer support operations in a number of countries outside the united states, including belgium, the czech republic, germany, ireland, malaysia and mexico. in addition, a significant portion of our non-united states revenues are derived from sales to third party distributors. as of december 31, 2018 , 75% of our full-time and temporary employees were employed in countries outside of the united states, and approximately 40% of our net property, plant and equipment was located outside the united states. in addition, for the years ended december 31, 2018 , 2017 and 2016 approximately 41% , 42% and 46% , respectively, of our net revenues (based on the teleflex entity generating the sale) were derived from operations outside the united states. our international operations are subject to risks inherent in doing business outside the united states, including: exchange controls, currency restrictions and fluctuations in currency values; trade protection measures, tariffs and other duties, especially in light of trade disputes between the united states and several foreign countries, including china; potentially costly and burdensome import or export requirements; laws and business practices that favor local companies; changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and procedures; subsidies or increased access to capital for firms that currently are or may emerge as competitors in countries in which we have operations; substantial foreign tax liabilities, including potentially negative consequences resulting from changes in tax laws; 22 restrictions and taxes related to the repatriation of foreign earnings; differing labor regulations; additional united states and foreign government controls or regulations; the impact of the united kingdom's pending departure from the european union, commonly referred to as "brexit"; difficulties in the protection of intellectual property; and unsettled political and economic conditions and possible terrorist attacks against american interests. in addition, the united states foreign corrupt practices act (the fcpa ) prohibits companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-united states officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. similar anti-bribery laws are in effect in several foreign jurisdictions. the fcpa also imposes accounting standards and requirements on publicly traded united states corporations and their foreign affiliates, which, among other things, are intended to prevent the diversion of corporate funds to the payment of bribes and other improper payments to government officials, and to prevent the establishment of off the books slush funds from which such improper payments can be made. because of the predominance of government-sponsored health care systems around the world, many of our customer relationships outside of the united states are with government entities and are therefore subject to such anti-bribery laws. our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. however, we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced government corruption to some degree. despite meaningful measures that we undertake to facilitate lawful conduct, which include training and compliance programs and internal control policies and procedures, we may not always prevent reckless or criminal acts by our employees, distributors or other agents. in addition, we may be exposed to liability due to pre-acquisition conduct of employees, distributors or other agents of businesses or operations we acquire. violations of anti-bribery laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our operations, involve significant management distraction and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we also could be subject to severe penalties and other adverse consequences, including criminal and civil penalties, disgorgement, substantial expenditures related to further enhancements to our procedures, policies and controls, personnel changes and other remedial actions, as well as harm to our reputation. furthermore, we are subject to the export controls and economic embargo rules and regulations of the united states, including the export administration regulations and trade sanctions against embargoed countries, which are administered by the office of foreign assets control within the department of the treasury, as well as other laws and regulations administered by the department of commerce. these regulations limit our ability to market, sell, distribute or otherwise transfer our products or technology to prohibited countries or persons. while we train our employees and contractually obligate our distributors to comply with these regulations, we cannot assure that a violation will not occur, whether knowingly or inadvertently. failure to comply with these rules and regulations may result in substantial civil and criminal penalties, including fines and the disgorgement of profits, the imposition of a court-appointed monitor, the denial of export privileges and debarment from participation in united states government contracts, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. foreign currency exchange rate, commodity price and interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. products manufactured in, and sold into, foreign markets represent a significant portion of our operations. our consolidated financial statements reflect translation of financial statements denominated in non-united states currencies to united states dollars, our reporting currency, as well as the foreign currency exchange gains and losses resulting from the remeasurement of assets and liabilities and from transactions denominated in currencies other than the primary currency of the country in which the entity operates, which we refer to as "non-functional currencies." a strengthening or weakening of the united states dollar in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries in which we sell or manufacture our products, such as the euro, will affect our united states dollar-reported revenue and income. although we have entered into forward contracts with several major financial institutions to hedge a portion of our monetary assets and liabilities and projected cash flows denominated in non-functional currencies in order to reduce the effects of currency rate fluctuations, changes in the relative values of currencies may, in some instances, have a significant effect on our results of operations. 23 many of our products have significant plastic resin content. we also use quantities of other commodities, such as aluminum and steel. increases in the prices of these commodities could increase the costs of our products and services. we may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers, particularly with respect to those products we sell under group purchase agreements, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. increases in interest rates may adversely affect the financial health of our customers and suppliers, thereby adversely affecting their ability to buy our products and supply the components or raw materials we need. in addition, our borrowing costs have been adversely affected by recent interest rate increases, and could be further affected if interest rates continue to increase. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. under our cross-currency swap agreements, a meaningful decline in the u.s. dollar to euro exchange rate could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows. on october 4, 2018, we entered into cross-currency swap agreements with six different financial institutions to hedge against the effect of variability in the u.s. dollar to euro exchange rate. under the terms of the swap agreements, we notionally exchanged $500.0 million at an annual interest rate of 4.625% for 433.9 million at an annual interest rate of 1.942%. the swap agreements, which expire on october 4, 2023, require an exchange of the notional amounts between us and the counterparties upon expiration or earlier termination of the agreements. if, at the expiration or earlier termination of the swap agreements, the u.s. dollar to euro exchange rate has declined from the rate in effect on october 4, 2018, we are required to pay the counterparties an amount equal to the excess of the u.s. dollar value of 433.9 million over $500.0 million (we and the counterparties have agreed to a net settlement with regard to the exchange of the notional amounts at the date of expiration or earlier termination of the agreements). in the event of a significant decline in the u.s. dollar to euro exchange rate, our payment obligations to the counterparties could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows. in this regard, if, at the expiration or earlier termination of the swap agreements, the u.s. dollar to euro currency exchange rate has declined by 10% from the rate in effect at october 4, 2018 (at that date, the exchange rate was 1.15 u.s. dollar per euro), we would be required to pay approximately $50 million to the counterparties in respect of the notional settlement. to the extent we enter into additional cross-currency swap agreements, a decline in the relevant exchange rates could further adversely affect our cash flows. fluctuations in our effective tax rate and changes to tax laws may adversely affect us. as a global company, we are subject to taxation in numerous countries, states and other jurisdictions. our effective tax rate is derived from a combination of applicable tax rates in the various countries, states and other jurisdictions in which we operate. in preparing our financial statements, we estimate the amount of tax that will become payable in each of these jurisdictions. our effective tax rate may, however, differ from the estimated amount due to numerous factors, including a change in the mix of our profitability from country to country and changes in tax laws (including the impact of the enactment of the tcja). any of these factors could cause us to experience an effective tax rate significantly different from previous periods or our current expectations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. an interruption in our manufacturing or distribution operations or our supply of raw materials may adversely affect our business. many of our key products are manufactured at or distributed from single locations, and the availability of alternate facilities is limited. if operations at one or more of our facilities is suspended due to natural disasters or other events, we may not be able to timely manufacture or distribute one or more of our products at previous levels or at all. furthermore, our ability to establish replacement facilities or to substitute suppliers may be delayed due to regulations and requirements of the fda and other regulatory authorities regarding the manufacture of our products. in addition, in the event of delays or cancellations in shipments of raw materials by our suppliers, we may not be able to timely manufacture or supply the affected products at previous levels or at all. the manufacture of our products is highly exacting and complex, due in part to strict regulatory requirements. problems in the manufacturing process, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, defective raw materials and environmental factors, could lead to delays in product releases, product shortages, unanticipated costs, lost revenues and damage to our reputation. a failure to identify and address manufacturing problems prior to the release of products to our customers may also result in quality or safety issues. a reduction or interruption in manufacturing or distribution, or our inability to secure suitable alternative sources of raw materials or components, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 24 our ability to attract, train, develop and retain key employees is important to our success. our success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to retain key personnel, including our executive officers and other members of our senior management team. our success also depends, in part, on our ability to attract, train, develop and retain other key employees, including research and development, sales, marketing and operations personnel. we may experience difficulties in retaining executives and other employees due to many factors, including: the intense competition for skilled personnel in our industry; fluctuations in global economic and industry conditions; changes in our organizational structure; our restructuring initiatives; competitors' hiring practices; and the effectiveness of our compensation programs. our inability to attract, train, develop and retain such personnel could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our failure to maintain strong relationships with physicians and other health care professionals could adversely affect us. we depend on our ability to maintain strong working relationships with physicians and other healthcare professionals in connection with research and development for some of our products. we rely on these professionals to provide us with considerable knowledge and advice regarding the development and use of these products. physicians assist us as researchers, product consultants, inventors and public speakers. if we fail to maintain our working relationships with physicians and, as a result, no longer have the benefit of their knowledge and advice, our products may not be developed in a manner that is responsive to the needs and expectations of the professionals who use and support our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our technology is important to our success, and our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could put us at a competitive disadvantage. we rely on the patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws of the united states and other countries to protect our proprietary rights. although we own numerous united states and foreign patents and have submitted numerous patent applications, we cannot be assured that any pending patent applications will issue, or that any patents, issued or pending, will provide us with any competitive advantage or will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties. in addition, we rely on confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with employees and take other measures to protect our know-how and trade secrets. the steps we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of our technology by competitors or other persons who may copy or otherwise obtain and use these products or technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as in the united states. we cannot assure that current and former employees, contractors and other parties will not breach their confidentiality agreements with us, misappropriate proprietary information, copy or otherwise obtain and use our information and proprietary technology without authorization or otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. our inability to protect our proprietary technology could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. moreover, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop know-how and trade secrets comparable to ours or develop better technology than our own, which could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we have developed. our products or processes may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to pay unexpected litigation costs or damages or prevent us from selling our products. we cannot be certain that our products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of our business, including claims of alleged infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties. any such claims, whether or not meritorious, could result in litigation and divert the efforts of our personnel. if we are found liable for infringement, we may be compelled to enter into licensing agreements (which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all) 25 or to pay damages or cease making or selling certain products. we may need to redesign some of our products or processes to avoid future infringement liability. any of the foregoing events could be detrimental to our business. other pending and future litigation may involve significant costs and adversely affect our business. we are party to various lawsuits and claims arising in the normal course of business involving, among other things, contracts, intellectual property, import and export regulations, and employment and environmental matters. the defense of these lawsuits may divert our management's attention, and may involve significant legal expenses. in addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. while we do not believe that any litigation in which we are currently engaged would have such an adverse effect, the outcome of litigation, including regulatory matters, is often difficult to predict, and we cannot assure that the outcome of pending or future litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. as of december 31, 2018 , we had total consolidated indebtedness of $2.2 billion . our substantial level of indebtedness increases the risk that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to satisfy our debt obligations. it could also have significant effects on our business. for example, it could: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate expenditures; limit our ability to borrow additional funds for general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; restrict us from pursuing business opportunities; and place us at a disadvantage compared to competitors that have less indebtedness. if we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or if future borrowings are not available to us in an amount sufficient to pay our indebtedness when due or to fund our other liquidity needs, we may be forced to: refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness; sell assets; reduce or delay capital expenditures; or seek to raise additional capital. we may not be able to effect any of these actions on commercially reasonable terms or at all. our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our financial condition at the time, the restrictions in the instruments governing our outstanding indebtedness and other factors, including market conditions. our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt service obligations, or to refinance or restructure our obligations on commercially reasonable terms or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our debt agreements impose restrictions on our business, which could prevent us from pursuing business opportunities and taking other desirable corporate actions, and may adversely affect our ability to respond to changes in our business and manage our operations. our senior credit agreement and the indentures governing our 5.25% senior notes due 2024 (the "2024 notes"), our 4.875% senior notes due 2026 (the "2026 notes") and our 4.625% senior notes due 2027 (the "2027 notes" and, together with the 2024 notes, the "senior notes") contain covenants that, among other things, impose significant restrictions on our business. the restrictions that these covenants place on us and our restricted subsidiaries collectively include limitations on our and their ability to, among other things: 26 incur additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock or otherwise disqualified stock; create liens; pay dividends, make investments or make other restricted payments; sell assets; merge, consolidate, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and enter into transactions with our affiliates. in addition, our senior credit agreement also contains financial covenants, including covenants requiring maintenance of a consolidated leverage ratio, a secured leverage ratio and a consolidated interest coverage ratio, calculated in accordance with the terms of the senior credit agreement. a breach of any covenants under any one or more of our debt agreements could result in a default, which if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt. in addition, any debt agreements we enter into in the future may further limit our ability to enter into certain types of transactions. we may issue additional shares of our common stock or instruments convertible into our common stock, which could lower the price of our common stock. we are not restricted from issuing additional shares of our common stock or other instruments convertible into our common stock. as of december 31, 2018 , we had outstanding approximately 46.0 million shares of our common stock, options to purchase approximately 1.5 million shares of our common stock (of which approximately 1.1 million were vested as of that date), restricted stock units covering approximately 0.2 million shares of our common stock (which are expected to vest over the next three years), performance stock units covering a maximum of 22,290 shares of our common stock (which may vest in early 2021, depending on our performance with regard to specified financial measures and market performance of our common stock compared to designated public companies) and approximately 1,767 shares of our common stock to be distributed from our deferred compensation plan. as of december 31, 2018 , 3.6 million shares of our common stock are reserved for issuance upon the exercise of stock options. we cannot predict the size of future issuances or the effect, if any, that they may have on the market price for our common stock. if we issue additional shares of our common stock or instruments convertible into our common stock, such issuances may materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock. furthermore, our issuance of shares following the exercise of some or all of the outstanding stock options, as well as the vesting of restricted stock units and some or all of the performance stock units will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders, and the issuance and sale in the public market of such shares of our common stock could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. disruption of critical information systems or material breaches in the security of our systems may adversely affect our business and customer relationships. we rely on information technology systems to process, transmit, and store electronic information in our day-to-day operations. we also rely on our technology infrastructure, among other functions, to enable us to interact with customers and suppliers, fulfill orders, generate invoices, collect and make payments, ship products, provide support to customers, fulfill contractual obligations and otherwise perform business functions. our internal information technology systems, as well as those systems maintained by third-party providers, may be subjected to computer viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized access attempts, and cyber-attacks, any of which could result in data leaks or otherwise compromise our confidential or proprietary information and disrupt our operations. cyber-attacks are becoming more sophisticated and frequent, and in some cases have caused significant harm. although we have taken numerous measures to protect our information systems and enhance data security, we cannot assure that these measures will prevent security breaches that could have a significant impact on our business, reputation and financial results. if we fail to monitor, maintain or protect our information technology systems and data integrity effectively or fail to anticipate, plan for or manage significant disruptions to these systems, we could, among other things, lose customers, have difficulty preventing fraud, have disputes with customers, physicians and other health care professionals, be subject to regulatory sanctions or penalties, incur expenses, lose revenues or suffer other adverse consequences. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. 27 regulations related to conflict minerals have caused us to incur additional costs and may adversely affect our business. in 2012, the sec promulgated rules under the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act regarding disclosure of the use of tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, known as "conflict minerals," included in components of products either manufactured by public companies or for which public companies have contracted to manufacture. these rules require that we undertake due diligence efforts to determine whether such minerals originated from the democratic republic of congo (the drc ) or an adjoining country and, if so, whether such minerals helped finance armed conflict in the drc or an adjoining country. in accordance with applicable regulations, we have filed conflict minerals reports annually, beginning in 2014. as discussed in these reports, we have determined that certain of our products contain the specified minerals, and we have undertaken, and continue to undertake, efforts to identify where such minerals originated. we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the sources of the specified minerals used in our products. these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products. our customers may require that our products be free of conflict minerals, and our revenues and margins may be adversely affected if we are unable to provide assurances to our customers that our products are drc conflict free (generally, the product does not contain conflict minerals originating in the drc or an adjoining country that directly or indirectly finance or benefit specified armed groups) due to, among other things, our inability to procure conflict free minerals at a reasonable price, or at all. moreover, we may be adversely affected if we are unable to pass through any increased costs associated with meeting customer demands that we provide products that are drc conflict free. we also may face reputational challenges if our due diligence efforts do not enable us to verify the origins of all conflict minerals or to determine that any conflict minerals used in products we manufacture or in products manufactured by others for us are drc conflict-free. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental and health and safety liabilities. we are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things: the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; and the health and safety of our employees. these laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances, which may include claims for personal injury or cleanup, will not exceed our estimates or will not adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our workforce covered by collective bargaining and similar agreements could cause interruptions in our provision of products and services. as of december 31, 2018 , approximately 11% of our employees in the united states and in other countries were covered by union contracts or collective bargaining arrangements. it is likely that a portion of our workforce will remain covered by collective bargaining and similar agreements for the foreseeable future. strikes or work stoppages could occur that would adversely impact our relationships with our customers and our ability to conduct our business. we may not pay dividends on our common stock in the future. holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends only as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. the declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including our financial condition, earnings, requirements under covenants in our debt instruments, legal requirements and other factors as our board of directors deems relevant. we cannot assure that our cash dividend will not be reduced, or eliminated, in the future. 28 certain provisions of our corporate governing documents, delaware law and our senior notes could discourage, delay, or prevent a merger or acquisition. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock. for example, our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to determine the number of shares in a series, the consideration, dividend rights, liquidation preferences, terms of redemption, conversion or exchange rights and voting rights, if any, of unissued series of preferred stock, without any vote or action by our stockholders. thus, our board of directors can authorize and issue shares of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting or other rights of holders of our common stock. we are also subject to section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our common stock. these provisions could have the effect of delaying or deterring a third party from acquiring us even if an acquisition might be in the best interest of our stockholders, and accordingly could reduce the market price of our common stock. certain provisions in the indentures governing the senior notes could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. if an acquisition event constitutes a change of control, as defined in the indentures governing the senior notes, holders of such notes will have the right to require us to purchase their notes in cash (in the case of the 2027 notes, the right will apply if the change in control is coupled with a ratings downgrade). our obligations under the senior notes could increase the cost of acquiring us or otherwise discourage a third party from acquiring us or removing incumbent management, and accordingly could cause a reduction in the market price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk we are exposed to certain financial risks, specifically fluctuations in market interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and, to a lesser extent, commodity prices. we use derivative financial instruments to manage or reduce the impact of some of these risks. we do not enter into derivative instruments for trading purposes. we are also exposed to changes in the market traded price of our common stock as it influences the valuation of stock options and their effect on earnings. interest rate risk we are exposed to changes in interest rates as a result of our borrowing activities and our cash balances. the table below provides information regarding the interest rates by year of maturity for our fixed and variable rate debt obligations. variable interest rates on december 31, 2018 were determined using a base rate of the one-month libor rate plus the applicable spread. year of maturity 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 thereafter total (dollars in thousands) fixed rate debt $ $ $ $ $ $ 1,150,000 $ 1,150,000 average interest rate % % % % % 4.848 % 4.848 % variable rate debt $ 86,625 $ 51,562 $ 70,313 $ 818,000 $ $ $ 1,026,500 average interest rate 3.684 % 4.272 % 4.272 % 4.270 % % % 4.221 % a change of 1.0% in variable interest rates would increase or decrease annual interest expense by $10.3 million based on our outstanding debt as of december 31, 2018 . foreign currency risk we are exposed to currency fluctuations in connection with transactions, as well as monetary assets and liabilities, denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of certain subsidiaries. forward currency contracts we enter into forward contracts with several major financial institutions to hedge the risk associated with these foreign currency exposures; these contracts generally involve the purchase or sale, at designated future dates, of specified amounts of a foreign currency while simultaneously committing to an opposite way sale or purchase of a specified amount of u.s. dollars or euros, based on the exchange rate at the time of entry into the contract. the contracts we enter into to hedge transactions denominated in non-functional currencies are designated as cash flow hedges. the contracts to hedge monetary asset and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies are not designated as cash flow, fair value or net investment hedges. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for information regarding the accounting treatment of designated and non-designated hedge contracts. the following table provides information regarding our open foreign currency forward contracts at december 31, 2018 , which mature during 2019 . as of december 31, 2018 , the total notional amount for the designated and non-designated contracts, expressed in u.s. dollars, is $115.3 million and $125.9 million , respectively. as of december 31, 2017 , the total notional amount for the designated and non-designated contracts, expressed in u.s. dollars, is $88.5 million and $110.6 million , respectively. forward contract notional amounts presented below are expressed in the stated currencies. 56 buy/(sell) (in thousands) designated non-designated australian dollar (14,160 ) (7,313 ) british pound (7,230 ) (11,639 ) canadian dollar (12,410 ) 25,992 chinese renminbi (98,780 ) (183,851 ) czech koruna 409,710 79,761 euro 9,441 60,994 indian rupee (862,003 ) japanese yen (856,750 ) (78,828 ) korean won (4,050,000 ) (3,406,493 ) malaysian ringgit 28,490 15,945 mexican peso 481,020 73,938 polish zloty (13,160 ) singapore dollar 6,780 south african rand (58,500 ) (60,011 ) swiss franc (4,278 ) united states dollar (1,815 ) (17,374 ) chilean peso (3,851,818 ) columbian peso (10,796,735 ) uruguayan peso (118,500 ) cross-currency swap agreements on october 4, 2018, we entered into cross-currency swap agreements with six different financial institution counterparties to hedge against the effect of variability in the u.s. dollar to euro exchange rate. under the terms of the swap agreements, we notionally exchanged $500.0 million at an annual interest rate of 4.625% for 433.9 million at an annual interest rate of 1.942%. the swap agreements, which expire on october 4, 2023, are designated as net investment hedges and require an exchange of the notional amounts upon expiration or earlier termination of the agreements. we and the counterparties have agreed to effect the exchange through a net settlement. the interest component of the swap agreements will affect the interest expense recognized within our statement of operations. based on the u.s. dollar to euro currency exchange rate in effect on october 4, 2018, and assuming the exchange rates remain constant throughout the five year term of the cross-currency swap agreements, we would realize an annual pre-tax net benefit (i.e., a reduction in interest expense as a result of the swap agreements) of $13.4 million, or a total of $67.0 million over the five year term of the swap agreements. a 10% increase or decrease in the u.s. dollar to euro currency exchange rate in effect on october 4, 2018 would result in a change to the annual pre-tax net benefit of approximately $1.0 million. as described in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report, the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) issued guidance in august 2017 with the objective of improving the financial reporting of hedging relationships to better portray the economic results of an entity's risk management activities in its financial statements. as a result of our early adoption of the fasb guidance, and because the swap agreements are designated as net investment hedges, changes in the fair value of the cross-currency swap agreements will be recognized as a component of foreign currency translation continuing operations adjustments, net of tax within other comprehensive (loss) income, net of tax in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. in this regard, a favorable foreign currency change in the designated investment value of our foreign subsidiaries that use euros as their functional currency generally will be offset by an unfavorable foreign currency change in the swap agreements, and vice versa . at october 4, 2018, a 10% fluctuation in the u.s. dollar to euro currency exchange rate would have an approximately $50 million impact on the fair value of the notional amount of the cross-currency swap agreements and an offsetting $50 million impact on the designated net investment value of the foreign subsidiaries. in addition, in the event of a significant decline in the u.s. dollar to euro exchange rate, our payment obligations to the 57 counterparties could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows. in this regard, if, at the expiration or earlier termination of the swap agreements, the u.s. dollar to euro currency exchange rate has declined by 10% from the rate in effect at october 4, 2018, we would be required to pay approximately $50 million to the counterparties. the swap agreements entail risk that the counterparties will not fulfill their obligations under the agreements. however, we believe the risk is reduced because we have entered into separate agreements with six different counterparties, all of whom are large, well-established financial institutions. in the future, we may enter into additional cross-currency swap agreements to further hedge against the effect of variability in the u.s. dollar to euro exchange rate, although there can be no assurances that we will do so.risk factors in addition to the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k, you should carefully consider the following factors which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or stock price. the risks below are not the only risks we face. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or stock price. we face strong competition. our failure to successfully develop and market new products could adversely affect our business. the medical device industry is highly competitive. we compete with many domestic and foreign medical device companies ranging from small start-up enterprises that might sell only a single or limited number of competitive 12 products or compete only in a specific market segment, to companies that are larger and more established than us, have a broad range of competitive products, participate in numerous markets and have access to significantly greater financial and marketing resources than we do. in addition, the medical device industry is characterized by extensive product research and development and rapid technological advances. the future success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability to design and manufacture new competitive products and enhance existing products. our product development efforts may require us to make substantial investments. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop new products, enhance existing products or achieve market acceptance of our products, due to, among other things, our inability to: identify viable new products; maintain sufficient liquidity to fund our investments in research and development and product acquisitions; obtain adequate intellectual property protection; gain market acceptance of new products; or successfully obtain regulatory approvals. in addition, our competitors currently may be developing, or may develop in the future, products that provide better features, clinical outcomes or economic value than those that we currently offer or subsequently develop. our failure to successfully develop and market new products or enhance existing products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our customers depend on third party coverage and reimbursements, and the failure of healthcare programs to provide sufficient coverage and reimbursement for our medical products could adversely affect us. the ability of our customers to obtain coverage and reimbursement for our products is important to our business. demand for many of our existing and new medical products is, and will continue to be, affected by the extent to which government healthcare programs and private health insurers reimburse our customers for patients' medical expenses in the countries where we do business. even when we develop or acquire a promising new product, demand for the product may be limited unless reimbursement approval is obtained from private and government third party payors. internationally, healthcare reimbursement systems vary significantly. in some countries, medical centers are constrained by fixed budgets, regardless of the volume and nature of patient treatment. other countries require application for, and approval of, government or third party reimbursement. without both favorable coverage determinations by, and the financial support of, government and third party insurers, the market for many of our medical products would be adversely affected. in this regard, we cannot be sure that third party payors will maintain the current level of coverage and reimbursement to our customers for use of our existing products. adverse coverage determinations, including reductions in the amount of reimbursement, could harm our business by discouraging customers' selection of, and reducing the prices they are willing to pay for, our products. in addition, as a result of their purchasing power, third party payors have implemented and are continuing to implement cost cutting measures such as seeking discounts, price reductions or other incentives from medical products suppliers and imposing limitations on coverage and reimbursement for medical technologies and procedures. these trends could compel us to reduce prices for our products and could cause a decrease in the size of the market or a potential increase in competition that could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to extensive government regulation, which may require us to incur significant expenses to ensure compliance. our failure to comply with those regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our products are medical devices and are subject to extensive regulation in the u.s. by the fda and by comparable government agencies in other countries. the regulations govern, among other things, the development, design, clinical testing, premarket clearance and approval, manufacturing, labeling, importing and exporting and sale and marketing of many of our products. moreover, these regulations are subject to future change. 13 in the u.s., before we can market a new medical device, or a new use of, or claim for, or significant modification to, an existing product, we generally must first receive either 510(k) clearance or de novo authorization or approval of a premarket approval application, or pma, from the fda. similarly, most major markets for medical devices outside the u.s. also require clearance, approval or compliance with certain standards before a product can be commercially marketed. in the eu, the eu mdr will, when it enters into full force in may 2020, include significant additional pre- and post-market requirements. the process of obtaining regulatory clearances and approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the fda and certain foreign government authorities, can be costly and time consuming, and clearances and approvals might not be granted for new products on a timely basis, if at all. in addition, once a device has been cleared or approved, a new clearance or approval may be required before the device may be modified or its labeling changed. furthermore, the fda or a foreign government authority may make its review and clearance or approval process more rigorous, which could require us to generate additional clinical or other data, and expend more time and effort, in obtaining future product clearances or approvals. the regulatory clearance and approval process may result in, among other things, delayed realization of product revenues, substantial additional costs or limitations on indicated uses of products, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. even after a product has received marketing approval or clearance, such product approval or clearance can be withdrawn or limited due to unforeseen problems with the device or issues relating to its application. failure to comply with applicable regulations could lead to adverse effects on our business, which could include: partial suspension or total shutdown of manufacturing; product shortages; delays in product manufacturing; warning or untitled letters; fines or civil penalties; delays in or restrictions on obtaining new regulatory clearances or approvals; withdrawal or suspension of required clearances, approvals or licenses; product seizures or recalls; injunctions; criminal prosecution; advisories or other field actions; operating restrictions; and prohibitions against exporting of products to, or importing products from, countries outside the u.s. we could be required to expend significant financial and human resources to remediate failures to comply with applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines. in addition, civil and criminal penalties, including exclusion under medicaid or medicare, could result from certain regulatory violations. any one or more of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. medical devices are cleared or approved for one or more specific intended uses and performance claims must be adequately substantiated. promoting a device for a use outside of the cleared or approved intended use or population, that is, an off-label use, or making false, misleading or unsubstantiated claims could result in government enforcement action. furthermore, our facilities are subject to periodic inspection by the fda and other federal, state and foreign government authorities, which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to certain regulations, including the fda's quality system regulation ("qsr"), which requires, among other things, periodic audits, design controls, quality control testing and documentation procedures, as well as complaint evaluations and investigation. in addition, any facilities assembling kits that include drug components and are registered as drug repackaging establishments are also subject to current good manufacturing practices requirements for drugs. the fda also requires the reporting of certain adverse events and product malfunctions and requires the reporting of certain recalls or other field safety corrective actions for medical devices. issues identified through such inspections and reports may result in fda enforcement action through any of the actions discussed above. moreover, issues identified through such inspections and reports may require significant resources to resolve. 14 we are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse laws, regulation and enforcement; our failure to comply with those laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse regulation and enforcement by the federal government and the governments of those states and foreign countries in which we conduct our business. the laws that may affect our ability to operate include: the federal healthcare anti-kickback statute, which, among other things, prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully offering or paying remuneration, one purpose of which is to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as medicare and medicaid, or soliciting payment for such referrals, purchases, orders and recommendations; federal false claims laws which, among other things, prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, false or fraudulent claims for payment from the federal government, including medicare, medicaid or other third-party payors; the federal health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996 ( hipaa ), which prohibits schemes to defraud any healthcare benefit program and false statements relating to healthcare matters; and state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers. if our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws or any other government regulations, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, the exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs and imprisonment of personnel, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. the risk of our being found to have violated these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. further, the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act (collectively, the affordable care act ), imposed annual reporting and disclosure requirements on device manufacturers for any transfer of value made or distributed to physicians or teaching hospitals. effective january 2022, we will also be required to collect and report information on payments or transfers of value to physician assistants, nurse practitioners, clinical nurse specialists, certified registered nurse anesthetists and certified nurse-midwives. the reported information is made publicly available in a searchable format. in addition, device manufacturers are required to report and disclose any investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members during the preceding calendar year. failure to submit required information may result in civil monetary penalties for each payment, transfer of value or ownership or investment interests not reported in an annual submission, up to an aggregate of $150,000 per year (and up to an aggregate of $1 million per year for knowing failures ). in addition, there has been a recent trend of increased federal and state regulation of payments made to healthcare providers. some states, such as california, connecticut, nevada and massachusetts, mandate implementation of compliance programs that include the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation for consulting and other services, and other remuneration to healthcare providers. the shifting commercial compliance environment and the need to build and maintain robust and expandable systems to comply with the different compliance and/or reporting requirements among a number of jurisdictions increases the possibility that we may inadvertently violate one or more of the requirements, resulting in increased compliance costs that could adversely impact our results of operations. we may not be successful in achieving expected operating efficiencies and sustaining or improving operating expense reductions, and may experience business disruptions associated with restructuring, facility consolidations, realignment, cost reduction and other strategic initiatives. over the past several years we have implemented a number of restructuring, realignment and cost reduction initiatives, including facility consolidations, organizational realignments and reductions in our workforce, and we may engage in similar efforts in the future. while we have realized some efficiencies from these initiatives, we may not realize the benefits of these or future initiatives to the extent we anticipated. further, such benefits may be realized later than expected, and the ongoing difficulties in implementing these measures may be greater than anticipated, which could cause us to incur additional costs or result in business disruptions. in addition, if these measures are not successful or sustainable, we may be compelled to undertake additional restructuring, realignment and cost 15 reduction efforts, which could result in significant additional charges. moreover, if our restructuring, realignment and cost reduction efforts prove ineffective, our ability to achieve our strategic and business plan goals may be adversely affected. in addition, as part of our efforts to increase operating efficiencies, we have implemented a number of initiatives over the past several years to consolidate our enterprise resource planning, or erp, systems. most recently, we upgraded the erp system used by our emea segment to our global erp system in 2019. to date, we have not experienced any significant disruptions to our business or operations in connection with these initiatives. however, as we continue our efforts to further consolidate our erp systems, we could experience business disruptions, which could adversely affect customer relationships and divert the attention of management away from daily operations. in addition, any delays in the implementation of these initiatives could cause us to incur additional unexpected costs. should we experience such difficulties, our business, cash flows and results of operations could be adversely affected. disruptions in sterilization of our products or regulatory initiatives further restricting the use of ethylene oxide in sterilization facilities could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. many of our products require sterilization prior to sale. a common method for sterilizing medical products involves the use of ethylene oxide, which is listed as a hazardous air pollutant under the clean air act, as amended, and emissions of which are regulated by the u.s. environmental protection agency and other regulatory authorities. one of our contract sterilizers, sterigenics u.s., llc, uses ethylene oxide in its sterilization process, including at its facility in smyrna, cobb county, georgia, which has sterilized some of our surgical, intermittent catheter and oem products. during the fourth quarter of the year ended december 31, 2019, operations at the smyrna facility were suspended by state and local officials due to issues associated with the facility's use of ethylene oxide in its sterilization operations. during the suspension, our ability to provide affected products to our customers was impaired. while we have secured alternate sterilization facilities for the affected product, based on currently available information, we believe that the disruption in the supply of our product will adversely affect our 2020 revenues by $5 million to $7 million. our 2020 revenues may be further adversely affected if we experience any significant difficulties or delays in accessing the sterilization capacity at the alternate facilities. in addition, on october 10, 2019, the attorneys general of 15 states and the district of columbia sent a letter to the epa urging that the epa promptly propose and finalize stricter standards for ethylene oxide emissions. among other things, the attorneys general stated that the current epa standard for ethylene oxide fails to adequately protect workers and communities, and that the use of ethylene oxide, particularly in the medical device sterilization industry, must be reduced. we are unable to predict the manner in which the epa will respond to the letter. any additional regulatory restrictions on the emission of ethylene oxide by sterilization facilities might impair our ability to provide sufficient quantities of sterilized products to our customers and compel us to seek sterilization alternatives that do not entail the use of ethylene oxide. we cannot assure that we would be able to identify such alternatives. in the event we were to experience any further disruptions in our ability to sterilize our products, whether due to capacity constraints or regulatory or other impediments (including, among other things, regulatory initiatives directed generally to sterilization facilities that utilize ethylene oxide), or we are unable to transition to alternative facilities in a timely or cost effective manner, we could experience a material adverse impact with respect to our results of operations and financial condition. a significant portion of our u.s. revenues is derived from sales to distributors, and destocking activity by these distributors can adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. a significant portion of our revenues in the u.s. is derived from sales to distributors, which, in turn, sell our products to hospitals and other health care institutions. from time to time, these distributors may decide to reduce their levels of inventory with regard to certain of our products, a practice we refer to as destocking. a distributor's decision to reduce inventory levels with respect to our products may be based on a number of factors, such as distributor expectations regarding demand for a particular product, distributor buying decisions (including decisions to purchase competing products), changes in distributor policies regarding the maintenance of inventory levels, economic conditions and other factors. for example, during the third quarter of 2016, we experienced a decline in purchases by our u.s. distributors that adversely affected our revenues and results of operations. we believe the reduction resulted from the distributors' expectations of a less severe 2016-2017 flu season, which resulted in reduced levels of purchasing with respect to certain of our products that are used for treatment of hospitalized patients suffering from the flu. following such instances of reduced purchases, distributors may revert to previous 16 purchasing levels; nevertheless, we cannot assure that distributors will, in fact, increase purchases of our products in this manner. a decline in the level of product purchases by our u.s. distributors in the future could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations during a reporting period, and an extended decline in such product purchases could have a longer term material adverse effect. we may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability and warranty claims, as well as product recalls, any of which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. furthermore, our reputation as a medical device company may be damaged if one or more of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective. our businesses expose us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture and marketing of our products. in particular, our medical device products are often used in surgical and intensive care settings for procedures involving seriously ill patients. in addition, many of our products are designed to be implanted in the human body for varying periods of time. product defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks with respect to products we manufacture or sell could result in patient injury or death. product liability and warranty claims often involve very large or indeterminate amounts, including punitive damages. the magnitude of potential losses from product liability lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time, and the related legal defense costs may be significant. we could experience material warranty or product liability losses in the future and incur significant costs to defend these claims. in addition, if any of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective, we may voluntarily conduct, or be required by regulatory authorities to conduct, a recall of that product. in the event of a recall, we may lose sales and be exposed to individual or class-action litigation claims. moreover, negative publicity regarding a quality or safety issue, whether accurate or inaccurate, could harm our reputation, decrease demand for our products, lead to product withdrawals or impair our ability to successfully launch and market our products in the future. product liability, warranty and recall costs may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the ongoing volatility in the domestic and global financial markets, combined with a continuation of constrained global credit markets, could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we are subject to risks arising from adverse changes in general domestic and global economic conditions. the economic slowdown and disruption of credit markets that occurred several years ago led to recessionary conditions and depressed levels of consumer and commercial spending, resulting in reductions, delays or cancellations of purchases of our products and services. despite improvements in recent years, particularly in the u.s., economic conditions continue to cause disruption in some financial markets, resulting in, among other things, diminished liquidity and credit availability. we cannot predict the duration or extent of any economic recovery or the extent to which our customers will return to more typical spending behaviors. the continuation in a number of markets of weak economic growth, constricted credit, public sector austerity measures in response to public budget deficits and foreign currency volatility, particularly with respect to the euro, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. although we maintain allowances for doubtful accounts to cover the estimated losses which may occur when customers cannot make their required payments, we cannot assure that the loss rate will not increase in the future given the volatility in the worldwide economy. if our allowance for doubtful accounts is insufficient to address receivables we ultimately determine are uncollectible, we would be required to incur additional charges, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. moreover, our inability to collect outstanding receivables could adversely affect our financial condition and cash flow from operations. in addition, adverse economic and financial market conditions may result in future impairment charges with respect to our goodwill and other intangible assets, which would not directly affect our liquidity but could have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results. our strategic initiatives, including acquisitions, may not produce the intended growth in revenue and operating income, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. our strategic initiatives include making significant investments designed to achieve revenue growth and to enable us to meet or exceed margin improvement targets. if we do not achieve the expected benefits from these investments or otherwise fail to execute on our strategic initiatives, we may not achieve the growth improvement we are targeting and our results of operations may be adversely affected. 17 in addition, as part of our strategy for growth, we have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions and divestitures and enter into strategic alliances such as joint ventures and joint development agreements. however, we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions or integrate acquisitions successfully, and our joint ventures or strategic alliances may not prove to be successful. in this regard, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration of acquired operations, technologies, services and products and the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. moreover, the products and technologies that we acquire may not be successful or may require us to devote significantly greater development, marketing and other resources, as well as significantly greater investments, than we anticipated. we could also experience negative effects on our results of operations and financial condition from acquisition-related charges, amortization of intangible assets, asset impairment charges and other matters that could arise in connection with the acquisition of a company or business, including matters related to internal control over financial reporting and regulatory compliance, as well as the short-term effects of increased costs on results of operations. although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in any particular transaction, there can be no assurance that we will identify all such risks or the magnitude of the risks. in addition, prior acquisitions have resulted, and future acquisitions could result, in the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness and expenditures. future acquisitions may also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities. there can be no assurance that difficulties encountered in connection with acquisitions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in connection with certain of our completed acquisitions, we have agreed to pay consideration that is contingent upon the achievement of specified objectives, such as receipt of regulatory approval, commercialization of a product or achievement of sales targets. as of the acquisition date, we record a contingent liability representing the estimated fair value of the contingent consideration we expect to pay. on a quarterly basis, we reassess these obligations and, in the event our estimate of the fair value of the contingent consideration changes, we record increases or decreases in the fair value as an adjustment to operating earnings, which could have a material impact on our results of operations. as of december 31, 2019, we accrued $219.9 million of contingent consideration, most of which related to our acquisition of neotract. in addition, actual payments may differ materially from the amount of the contingent liability , which could have a material impact on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. for information regarding assumptions related to our contingent consideration liabilities, see critical accounting policies and estimates under item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations included in this annual report on form 10-k. for additional information regarding our acquisitions, see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. health care reform may have a material adverse effect on our industry and our business. political, economic and regulatory developments have effected fundamental changes in the healthcare industry. the affordable care act substantially changed the way health care is financed by both government and private insurers. it also encourages improvements in the quality of health care products and services and significantly impacts the u.s. pharmaceutical and medical device industries. among other things, the affordable care act: established a new patient-centered outcomes research institute to oversee, identify priorities in and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research; implemented payment system reforms, including a national pilot program to encourage hospitals, physicians and other providers to improve the coordination, quality and efficiency of certain health care services through bundled payment models; and created an independent payment advisory board that will submit recommendations to reduce medicare spending if projected medicare spending exceeds a specified growth rate. we cannot predict at this time the full impact of the affordable care act or other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in this regard, several legislative initiatives to repeal and replace the affordable care act were proposed, but not adopted in 2017. however, u.s. tax legislation adopted in december 2017 and commonly referred to as the tax cuts and jobs act ("tcja") eliminated the individual mandate under the affordable care act, which has resulted in increased uncertainty regarding insurance premium prices for participants in insurance exchanges under the act, and may have other effects. moreover, on december 14, 2018, the u.s. district court for the northern district of texas ruled that the individual mandate provision of the affordable care act is unconstitutional and the remainder of the act is invalid, although the court stayed its ruling pending appeal. the nature and effect of any modification or repeal of, or legislative substitution for, the affordable care act, or any court decision regarding the act's validity, is uncertain, 18 and we cannot predict the effect that any of these events would have on the longer-term viability of the act, or on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we are subject to risks associated with our non-u.s. operations. we have significant manufacturing and distribution facilities, research and development facilities, sales personnel and customer support operations in a number of countries outside the u.s., including belgium, the czech republic, germany, ireland, malaysia and mexico. in addition, a significant portion of our non-u.s. revenues are derived from sales to third party distributors. as of december 31, 2019, 73% of our full-time and temporary employees were employed in countries outside of the u.s., and approximately 45% of our net property, plant and equipment was located outside the u.s. in addition, for the years ended december 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 38%, 41% and 42%, respectively, of our net revenues (based on the teleflex entity generating the sale) were derived from operations outside the u.s. our international operations are subject to risks inherent in doing business outside the u.s., including: exchange controls, currency restrictions and fluctuations in currency values; trade protection measures, tariffs and other duties, especially in light of trade disputes between the u.s. and several foreign countries, including china; potentially costly and burdensome import or export requirements; laws and business practices that favor local companies; changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and procedures; subsidies or increased access to capital for firms that currently are or may emerge as competitors in countries in which we have operations; substantial non-u.s. tax liabilities, including potentially negative consequences resulting from changes in tax laws; restrictions and taxes related to the repatriation of non-u.s. earnings; differing labor regulations; additional u.s. and foreign government controls or regulations; the impact of the united kingdom's departure from the european union, commonly referred to as "brexit"; public health epidemics; difficulties in the protection of intellectual property; and unsettled political and economic conditions and possible terrorist attacks against american interests. in addition, the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (the fcpa ) prohibits companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-u.s. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. similar anti-bribery laws are in effect in several foreign jurisdictions. the fcpa also imposes accounting standards and requirements on publicly traded u.s. corporations and their foreign affiliates, which, among other things, are intended to prevent the diversion of corporate funds to the payment of bribes and other improper payments to government officials, and to prevent the establishment of off the books slush funds from which such improper payments can be made. because of the predominance of government-sponsored health care systems around the world, many of our customer relationships outside of the u.s. are with government entities and are therefore subject to such anti-bribery laws. our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. however, we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced government corruption to some degree. despite meaningful measures that we undertake to facilitate lawful conduct, which include training and compliance programs and internal control policies and procedures, we may not always prevent reckless or criminal acts by our employees, distributors or other agents. in addition, we may be exposed to liability due to pre-acquisition conduct of employees, distributors or other agents of businesses or operations we acquire. violations of anti-bribery laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our operations, involve significant management distraction and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we also could be subject to severe penalties and other adverse consequences, including criminal and civil penalties, disgorgement, substantial expenditures related to further enhancements to our procedures, policies and controls, personnel changes and other remedial actions, as well as harm to our reputation. 19 furthermore, we are subject to the export controls and economic embargo rules and regulations of the u.s., including the export administration regulations and trade sanctions against embargoed countries, which are administered by the office of foreign assets control within the department of the treasury, as well as other laws and regulations administered by the department of commerce. these regulations limit our ability to market, sell, distribute or otherwise transfer our products or technology to prohibited countries or persons. while we train our employees and contractually obligate our distributors to comply with these regulations, we cannot assure that a violation will not occur, whether knowingly or inadvertently. failure to comply with these rules and regulations may result in substantial civil and criminal penalties, including fines and the disgorgement of profits, the imposition of a court-appointed monitor, the denial of export privileges and debarment from participation in u.s. government contracts, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by public health epidemics, including the novel coronavirus reported to have originated in wuhan, china. our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected if a public health epidemic, including the novel coronavirus (referred to as covid-19) reported to have originated in wuhan, china, interferes with our ability, or that of our employees, contractors, suppliers, customers and other business partners to perform our and their respective responsibilities and obligations relative to the conduct of our business. a public health epidemic, including the coronavirus, poses the risk that we or our employees, contractors, suppliers, customers and other business partners may be prevented from conducting business activities for an indefinite period of time, including due to shutdowns that may be requested or mandated by governmental authorities. we face similar risks if a public health epidemic, including the coronavirus, affects other geographic areas where our employees, contractors, suppliers, customers and other business partners are located. foreign currency exchange rate, commodity price and interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. products manufactured in, and sold into, foreign markets represent a significant portion of our operations. our consolidated financial statements reflect translation of financial statements denominated in non-u.s. currencies to u.s. dollars, our reporting currency, as well as the foreign currency exchange gains and losses resulting from the remeasurement of assets and liabilities and from transactions denominated in currencies other than the primary currency of the country in which the entity operates, which we refer to as "non-functional currencies." a strengthening or weakening of the u.s. dollar in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries in which we sell or manufacture our products, such as the euro, will affect our u.s. dollar-reported revenue and income. although we have entered into forward contracts with several major financial institutions to hedge a portion of our monetary assets and liabilities and projected cash flows denominated in non-functional currencies in order to reduce the effects of currency rate fluctuations, changes in the relative values of currencies may, in some instances, have a significant effect on our results of operations. many of our products have significant plastic resin content. we also use quantities of other commodities, such as aluminum and steel. increases in the prices of these commodities could increase the costs of our products and services. we may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers, particularly with respect to those products we sell under group purchase agreements, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. increases in interest rates may adversely affect the financial health of our customers and suppliers, thereby adversely affecting their ability to buy our products and supply the components or raw materials we need. in addition, our borrowing costs have been adversely affected by recent interest rate increases, and could be further affected if interest rates continue to increase. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. under our cross-currency swap agreements, a meaningful decline in the u.s. dollar to euro exchange rate could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows. in 2018 and 2019, we entered into cross-currency swap agreements with several financial institutions to hedge against the effect of variability in the u.s. dollar to euro exchange rate. the swap agreements require an exchange of the notional amounts between us and the counterparties upon expiration or earlier termination of the 20 agreements. if, at the expiration or earlier termination of the swap agreements, the u.s. dollar to euro exchange rate has declined from the rate in effect on the execution date, we are required to pay the counterparties an amount equal to the excess of the u.s. dollar value over the euro principal amount (we and the counterparties have agreed to a net settlement with regard to the exchange of the notional amounts at the date of expiration or earlier termination of the agreements). in the event of a significant decline in the u.s. dollar to euro exchange rate, our payment obligations to the counterparties could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows. in this regard, if, at the expiration or earlier termination of our swap agreements, the u.s. dollar to euro exchange rate has declined by 10% from the rate in effect at the inception of our agreements, we would be required to pay approximately $75 million to the counterparties in respect of the notional settlement. to the extent we enter into additional cross-currency swap agreements, a decline in the relevant exchange rates could further adversely affect our cash flows. fluctuations in our effective tax rate and changes to tax laws may adversely affect us. as a global company, we are subject to taxation in numerous countries, states and other jurisdictions. our effective tax rate is derived from a combination of applicable tax rates in the various countries, states and other jurisdictions in which we operate. in preparing our financial statements, we estimate the amount of tax that will become payable in each of these jurisdictions. our effective tax rate may, however, differ from the estimated amount due to numerous factors, including a change in the mix of our profitability from country to country and changes in tax laws (including the impact of the enactment of the tcja). any of these factors could cause us to experience an effective tax rate significantly different from previous periods or our current expectations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. an interruption in our manufacturing or distribution operations or our supply of raw materials may adversely affect our business. many of our key products are manufactured at or distributed from single locations, and the availability of alternate facilities is limited. if operations at one or more of our facilities is suspended due to natural disasters or other events, we may not be able to timely manufacture or distribute one or more of our products at previous levels or at all. furthermore, our ability to establish replacement facilities or to substitute suppliers may be delayed due to regulations and requirements of the fda and other regulatory authorities regarding the manufacture of our products. in addition, in the event of delays or cancellations in shipments of raw materials by our suppliers, we may not be able to timely manufacture or supply the affected products at previous levels or at all. the manufacture of our products is highly exacting and complex, due in part to strict regulatory requirements. problems in the manufacturing process, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, defective raw materials and environmental factors, could lead to delays in product releases, product shortages, unanticipated costs, lost revenues and damage to our reputation. a failure to identify and address manufacturing problems prior to the release of products to our customers may also result in quality or safety issues. a reduction or interruption in manufacturing or distribution, or our inability to secure suitable alternative sources of raw materials or components, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our ability to attract, train, develop and retain key employees is important to our success. our success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to retain key personnel, including our executive officers and other members of our senior management team. our success also depends, in part, on our ability to attract, train, develop and retain other key employees, including research and development, sales, marketing and operations personnel. we may experience difficulties in retaining executives and other employees due to many factors, including: the intense competition for skilled personnel in our industry; fluctuations in global economic and industry conditions; changes in our organizational structure; our restructuring initiatives; competitors' hiring practices; and the effectiveness of our compensation programs. our inability to attract, train, develop and retain such personnel could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 21 our failure to maintain strong relationships with physicians and other health care professionals could adversely affect us. we depend on our ability to maintain strong working relationships with physicians and other healthcare professionals in connection with research and development for some of our products. we rely on these professionals to provide us with considerable knowledge and advice regarding the development and use of these products. physicians assist us as researchers, product consultants, inventors and public speakers. if we fail to maintain our working relationships with physicians and, as a result, no longer have the benefit of their knowledge and advice, our products may not be developed in a manner that is responsive to the needs and expectations of the professionals who use and support our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our technology is important to our success, and our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could put us at a competitive disadvantage. we rely on the patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws of the u.s. and other countries to protect our proprietary rights. although we own numerous u.s. and foreign patents and have submitted numerous patent applications, we cannot be assured that any pending patent applications will issue, or that any patents, issued or pending, will provide us with any competitive advantage or will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties. in addition, we rely on confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with employees and take other measures to protect our know-how and trade secrets. the steps we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of our technology by competitors or other persons who may copy or otherwise obtain and use these products or technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as in the u.s. we cannot assure that current and former employees, contractors and other parties will not breach their confidentiality agreements with us, misappropriate proprietary information, copy or otherwise obtain and use our information and proprietary technology without authorization or otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. our inability to protect our proprietary technology could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. moreover, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop know-how and trade secrets comparable to ours or develop better technology than our own, which could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we have developed. our products or processes may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to pay unexpected litigation costs or damages or prevent us from selling our products. we cannot be certain that our products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of our business, including claims of alleged infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties. any such claims, whether or not meritorious, could result in litigation and divert the efforts of our personnel. if we are found liable for infringement, we may be compelled to enter into licensing agreements (which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all) or to pay damages or cease making or selling certain products. we may need to redesign some of our products or processes to avoid future infringement liability. any of the foregoing events could be detrimental to our business. other pending and future litigation may involve significant costs and adversely affect our business. we are party to various lawsuits and claims arising in the normal course of business involving, among other things, contracts, intellectual property, import and export regulations, and employment and environmental matters. the defense of these lawsuits may divert our management's attention, and may involve significant legal expenses. in addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. while we do not believe that any litigation in which we are currently engaged would have such an adverse effect, the outcome of litigation, including regulatory matters, is often difficult to predict, and we cannot assure that the outcome of pending or future litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 22 our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. as of december 31, 2019, we had total consolidated indebtedness of $1.9 billion. our substantial level of indebtedness increases the risk that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to satisfy our debt obligations. it could also have significant effects on our business. for example, it could: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate expenditures; limit our ability to borrow additional funds for general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; restrict us from pursuing business opportunities; and place us at a disadvantage compared to competitors that have less indebtedness. if we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or if future borrowings are not available to us in an amount sufficient to pay our indebtedness when due or to fund our other liquidity needs, we may be forced to: refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness; sell assets; reduce or delay capital expenditures; or seek to raise additional capital. we may not be able to effect any of these actions on commercially reasonable terms or at all. our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our financial condition at the time, the restrictions in the instruments governing our outstanding indebtedness and other factors, including market conditions. our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt service obligations, or to refinance or restructure our obligations on commercially reasonable terms or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our debt agreements impose restrictions on our business, which could prevent us from pursuing business opportunities and taking other desirable corporate actions, and may adversely affect our ability to respond to changes in our business and manage our operations. our senior credit agreement and the indentures governing our 4.875% senior notes due 2026 (the "2026 notes") and our 4.625% senior notes due 2027 (the "2027 notes" and, together with the 2026 notes, the "senior notes") contain covenants that, among other things, impose significant restrictions on our business. the restrictions that these covenants place on us and our restricted subsidiaries collectively include limitations on our and their ability to, among other things: incur additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock or otherwise disqualified stock; create liens; pay dividends, make investments or make other restricted payments; sell assets; merge, consolidate, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and enter into transactions with our affiliates. in addition, our senior credit agreement also contains financial covenants, including covenants requiring maintenance of a consolidated leverage ratio, a secured leverage ratio and a consolidated interest coverage ratio, calculated in accordance with the terms of the senior credit agreement. a breach of any covenants under any one or more of our debt agreements could result in a default, which if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration 23 of all of our debt. in addition, any debt agreements we enter into in the future may further limit our ability to enter into certain types of transactions. we may issue additional shares of our common stock or instruments convertible into our common stock, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. we are not restricted from issuing additional shares of our common stock or other instruments convertible into our common stock. as of december 31, 2019, we had outstanding approximately 46.0 million shares of our common stock, options to purchase 1.3 million shares of our common stock (of which approximately 1.0 million were vested as of that date), restricted stock units covering 0.2 million shares of our common stock (which are expected to vest over the next three years), performance stock units covering a maximum of 46,660 shares of our common stock (which may vest in early 2021, depending on our performance with regard to specified financial measures and market performance of our common stock compared to designated public companies) and 1,767 shares of our common stock to be distributed from our deferred compensation plan. as of december 31, 2019, 3.4 million shares of our common stock were reserved for issuance upon the exercise of stock options. we cannot predict the size of future issuances or the effect, if any, that they may have on the market price for our common stock. if we issue additional shares of our common stock or instruments convertible into our common stock, such issuances may materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock. furthermore, our issuance of shares upon the exercise of some or all of the outstanding stock options, as well as the vesting of restricted stock units and some or all of the performance stock units will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders, and the subsequent sale in the public market of such shares of our common stock could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. disruption of critical information systems or material breaches in the security of our systems may adversely affect our business and customer relationships. we rely on information technology systems to process, transmit, and store electronic information in our day-to-day operations. we also rely on our technology infrastructure, among other functions, to enable us to interact with customers and suppliers, fulfill orders, generate invoices, collect and make payments, ship products, provide support to customers, fulfill contractual obligations and otherwise perform business functions. our internal information technology systems, as well as those systems maintained by third-party providers, may be subjected to computer viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized access attempts, and cyber-attacks, any of which could result in data leaks or otherwise compromise our confidential or proprietary information and disrupt our operations. cyber-attacks are becoming more sophisticated and frequent, and in some cases have caused significant harm. although we have taken numerous measures to protect our information systems and enhance data security, we cannot assure that these measures will prevent security breaches that could have a significant impact on our business, reputation and financial results. if we fail to monitor, maintain or protect our information technology systems and data integrity effectively or fail to anticipate, plan for or manage significant disruptions to these systems, we could, among other things, lose customers, have difficulty preventing fraud, have disputes with customers, physicians and other health care professionals, be subject to regulatory sanctions or penalties, incur expenses, lose revenues or suffer other adverse consequences. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. regulations related to conflict minerals have caused us to incur additional costs and may adversely affect our business. in 2012, the sec promulgated rules under the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act regarding disclosure of the use of tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, known as "conflict minerals," included in components of products either manufactured by public companies or for which public companies have contracted to manufacture. these rules require that we undertake due diligence efforts to determine whether such minerals originated from the democratic republic of congo (the drc ) or an adjoining country and, if so, whether such minerals helped finance armed conflict in the drc or an adjoining country. in accordance with applicable regulations, we have filed conflict minerals reports annually, beginning in 2014. as discussed in these reports, we have determined that certain of our products contain the specified minerals, and we have undertaken, and continue to undertake, efforts to identify where such minerals originated. we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the sources of the specified minerals used in our products. these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products. our customers may require that our products be free of conflict minerals, and our revenues and margins may be adversely affected if we are unable to provide assurances to our customers 24 that our products are drc conflict free (generally, the product does not contain conflict minerals originating in the drc or an adjoining country that directly or indirectly finance or benefit specified armed groups) due to, among other things, our inability to procure conflict free minerals at a reasonable price, or at all. moreover, we may be adversely affected if we are unable to pass through any increased costs associated with meeting customer demands that we provide products that are drc conflict free. we also may face reputational challenges if our due diligence efforts do not enable us to verify the origins of all conflict minerals or to determine that any conflict minerals used in products we manufacture or in products manufactured by others for us are drc conflict-free. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental and health and safety liabilities. we are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things: the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; and the health and safety of our employees. these laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances, which may include claims for personal injury or cleanup, will not exceed our estimates or will not adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our workforce covered by collective bargaining and similar agreements could cause interruptions in our provision of products and services. as of december 31, 2019, approximately 13% of our employees in the u.s. and in other countries were covered by union contracts or collective bargaining arrangements. it is likely that a portion of our workforce will remain covered by collective bargaining and similar agreements for the foreseeable future. strikes or work stoppages could occur that would adversely impact our relationships with our customers and our ability to conduct our business. we may not pay dividends on our common stock in the future. holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends only as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. the declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including our financial condition, earnings, requirements under covenants in our debt instruments, legal requirements and other factors as our board of directors deems relevant. we cannot assure that our cash dividend will not be reduced, or eliminated, in the future. certain provisions of our corporate governing documents, delaware law and our senior notes could discourage, delay, or prevent a merger or acquisition. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock. for example, our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to determine the number of shares in a series, the consideration, dividend rights, liquidation preferences, terms of redemption, conversion or exchange rights and voting rights, if any, of unissued series of preferred stock, without any vote or action by our stockholders. thus, our board of directors can authorize and issue shares of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting or other rights of holders of our common stock. we are also subject to section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our common stock. these provisions could have the effect of delaying or deterring a third party from acquiring us even if an acquisition might be in the best interest of our stockholders, and accordingly could reduce the market price of our common stock. certain provisions in the indentures governing the senior notes could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. if an acquisition event constitutes a change of control, as defined in the indentures governing the senior notes, holders of such notes will have the right to require us to purchase their notes in cash (in the case of the 2027 notes, the right will apply only if the change in control is coupled with a ratings downgrade). 25 our obligations under the senior notes could increase the cost of acquiring us or otherwise discourage a third party from acquiring us or removing incumbent management, and accordingly could cause a reduction in the market price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to certain financial risks, specifically fluctuations in market interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and, to a lesser extent, commodity prices. we address these risks through a risk management program that includes the use of derivative financial instruments. we do not enter into derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes. we manage our exposure to counterparty risk on derivative instruments by entering into contracts with a diversified group of major financial institutions and by actively monitoring outstanding positions. we also are exposed to changes in the market trading price of our common stock as it influences the valuation of stock options and their effect on earnings. interest rate risk we are exposed to changes in interest rates as a result of our borrowing activities and our cash balances. the table below provides information regarding the interest rates by year of maturity for our fixed and variable rate debt obligations. variable interest rates on december 31, 2019 were determined using a base rate of the one-month libor rate plus the applicable spread. year of maturity 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 thereafter total (dollars in thousands) fixed rate debt $ $ $ $ $ $ 900,000 $ 900,000 average interest rate % % % % % 4.736 % 4.736 % variable rate debt $ 50,000 $ 25,500 $ 35,000 $ 43,750 $ 868,750 $ $ 1,023,000 average interest rate 2.513 % 3.174 % 3.174 % 3.174 % 3.157 % % 3.127 % a change of 1.0% in variable interest rates would increase or decrease annual interest expense by $10.2 million based on our outstanding debt as of december 31, 2019. foreign currency risk the global nature of our operations exposes us to foreign currency risks. these risks include exposure from the effect of fluctuating exchange rates on payables and receivables as well as intercompany loans relating to transactions that are denominated in currencies other than a location's functional currency and exposure that arises from translating the results of our worldwide operations to the u.s. dollar at exchange rates that have fluctuated from the beginning of a reporting period. our principal currency exposures relate to the euro, chinese renminbi, mexican peso, canadian dollar, malaysian ringgit, czech koruna, british pound, australian dollar and south korean won. we utilize foreign currency forward exchange contracts and cross-currency interest rate swap contracts to attempt to minimize our exposure to these risks. gains and losses on these contracts substantially offset losses and gains on the underlying hedged transactions. 47 as of december 31, 2019, the total notional amount for the foreign currency forward exchange contracts and cross-currency interest rates swap contracts, expressed in u.s. dollars, was $277.1 million and $750.0 million, respectively. a sensitivity analysis of changes in fair value of these contracts outstanding as of december 31, 2019, while not predictive in nature, indicated that a hypothetical 10% increase/decrease in the value of the u.s. dollar against all currencies would increase/decrease the fair value of these contracts by $83.1 million, the majority of which relates to the cross-currency interest rate swap contracts. see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for information regarding the accounting treatment of our foreign currency forward exchange contracts and cross-currency interest rates swap contracts.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see the text section entitled "liquidity, market risk and capital resources" contained within the "2000 financial review" on pages 34 through 39 of the company's 2000 annual report to shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see the text section entitled "liquidity, market risk and capital resources" contained within the "2001 financial review" on pages 26 through 30 of the company's 2001 annual report to shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see the text section entitled liquidity, market risk and capital resources contained within the 2002 financial review on pages 28 through 33 of the company 2002 annual report to shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see the text section entitled liquidity, market risk and capital resources and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in part ii item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations on pages 9 to 17 which information is incorporated herein by reference.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk we are exposed to certain financial risks, specifically fluctuations in market interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and, to a lesser extent, commodity prices. we are also exposed to changes in the market traded price of our common stock as it influences the valuation of stock options and their effect on pro forma earnings as disclosed. interest rate risk we are exposed to changes in interest rates as a result of our borrowing activities and our cash balances. interest rate swaps are used to manage a portion of our interest rate risk. the table below is an analysis of the amortization and related interest rates by year of maturity for our fixed and variable rate debt obligations. 28 variable interest rates shown below are weighted average rates of the debt portfolio. for the swaps, notional amounts and related interest rates are shown by year of maturity. year of maturity 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 thereafter total (dollars in thousands) fixed rate debt $ 37,346 $ 6,545 $ 6,500 $ 19,574 $ $ 400,000 $ 469,965 average interest rate 7.4 % 7.1 % 7.1 % 6.0 % 5.7 % 5.8 % variable rate debt $ 64,510 $ 6,699 $ 1,068 $ 44,164 $ 198,362 $ 3,000 $ 317,803 average interest rate 3.3 % 3.2 % 3.7 % 2.9 % 4.2 % 2.0 % 3.8 % amount subject to swaps: variable to fixed $ 59,852 average rate to be received 3.8 % average rate to be paid 5.8 % foreign currency risk we are exposed to fluctuations in market values of transactions in currencies other than the functional currencies of certain subsidiaries. we have entered into forward contracts with several major financial institutions to hedge a portion of projected cash flows from these exposures. the following table presents the significant cash flows and fair values of our open forward currency contracts as of december 26, 2004, which all mature in 2005. year of maturity 2005 forward currency contracts: pay u.s. dollars (44,520 ) receive euros 11,556 receive singapore dollars 27,564 receive canadian dollars 14,815 receive swedish krona 27,183 receive british pounds 1,594 forward contracts are expressed in local currency amounts. the market value of the total exchange gain is $2,865. additional risk is incurred as a result of the translation of foreign subsidiary financial statements into u.s. dollars. a movement of 10% in the value of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies would impact our expected net earnings by approximately $1.4 million.risk factors of this annual report on form 10-k. we expressly disclaim any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements, except as otherwise specifically stated by us. 2 table of contents part i " --> part i item 1. business " --> item 1. business overview teleflex incorporated is a diversified industrial company specializing in the design, manufacture and distribution of specialty-engineered products. we serve a wide range of customers in niche segments of the commercial, medical and aerospace industries. our products include: driver controls, motion controls, power and vehicle management systems and fluid management systems for commercial industries; disposable medical products, surgical instruments, medical devices and specialty devices for hospitals and healthcare providers; and repair products and services, precision-machined components and cargo-handling systems for commercial and military aviation as well as other industrial markets. for more than 60 years, we have grown by providing engineered products that help our customers meet their business requirements. we have grown through an active program of development of new products, introduction of products into new geographic or end-markets and through acquisitions of companies that can add value with related market, technology or industry expertise. we serve a diverse customer base through operations in 24 countries and local direct sales and distribution networks. in 2005, products distributed from our operations in the united states accounted for 45 percent of revenues, and products distributed from our operations in other countries represented 55 percent of revenues. our business segments we classify our business into three business segments commercial, medical and aerospace. for 2005, the percentages of our consolidated net revenues represented by our segments were as follows: commercial 47%; medical 33%; and aerospace 20%. additional information regarding our segments is presented in note 14 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. commercial our commercial segment businesses principally design, manufacture and distribute driver control, motion control, power and vehicle management and fluid management products and systems. our products are used by a wide range of markets including the passenger car and light truck, marine, recreational, mobile power equipment, military, agricultural and construction vehicle, truck and bus and various other industrial equipment sectors. these products are provided through business operating units organized around geographical location, market knowledge and technical expertise. major manufacturing operations are located in north america, europe and asia. driver controls: this is the largest single product category in the commercial segment, representing 47 percent of commercial segment revenues in 2005. products in this category include: full manual and automatic gearshift systems, transmission guide controls, park-lock cables, control cables, mechanical and hydraulic steering, steering columns, throttle controls and industrial vehicle pedal systems. our driver controls, for example, are used in passenger cars, boats, trucks, agricultural vehicles and recreational vehicles. we are a global supplier of manual and automatic gearshift systems and control cables for passenger cars and light trucks and a leading global provider of both mechanical and hydraulic steering systems for recreational boats. motion controls: products in this category represented 24 percent of commercial segment revenues in 2005. motion controls include: mechanical and electro-mechanical controls for seat-comfort, interior flexibility, movement and regulation of window, door, function and other safety controls and mobile power equipment controls and products for heavy-lift applications. while the largest portion of this category relates to seat and interior comfort and motion systems sold to automotive suppliers and industrial vehicle manufac- 3 table of contents turers, our motion systems also serve a wide range of other markets and applications. for example, we are a large supplier of safety cable and light-duty motion controls used in mobile power equipment, and our heavy-lift products, which include heavy-duty cables, hoisting and rigging equipment, are used in oil drilling and other industrial markets. power and vehicle management systems: products in this category represented 18 percent of commercial segment revenues in 2005. power and vehicle management systems include: mobile auxiliary power systems, fuel management systems and components, industrial actuation products and components, instrumentation and electronic controls for engine and vehicle management, diagnostics and monitoring. these products generally address the need for greater fuel efficiency, reduced emissions, mobile power and improved connectivity of engine and vehicle systems. our major products in this category include mobile auxiliary power units used for power and climate control in heavy duty trucks, industrial vehicles and locomotives, instrumentation and electronic products for marine and industrial vehicles and components and systems for the use of alternative fuels in military, industrial and automotive applications. fluid management systems: products in this category represented 11 percent of commercial segment revenues in 2005. fluid management products include premium-branded, custom-manufactured and bulk hose and related assemblies that are generally custom-designed and manufactured to address specific requirements for vapor permeation, durability and flexibility. our fluid management products can be found in automobiles, recreational boats, remote sensing devices, high-purity food processing, underground fuel transfer, compressed natural gas applications and in a number of other industrial product and equipment applications. the largest percentage of fluid management systems are sold to automotive and industrial customers. the following table sets forth revenues for 2005, 2004 and 2003 by significant product category for the commercial segment. 2005 2004 2003 (dollars in thousands) driver controls $ 554,707 $ 570,410 $ 530,499 motion controls $ 283,698 $ 264,653 $ 222,566 power and vehicle management systems $ 222,951 $ 238,838 $ 222,943 no other product line for the commercial segment amounted to more than 10% of consolidated revenues for any period presented. the following table sets forth the percentage of revenues by end market for 2005 for the commercial segment. automotive original equipment manufacturers (oems) 38 % marine/ recreational 19 % automotive suppliers 14 % industrial equipment and other 12 % truck and bus 6 % mobile power equipment 4 % heavy lift 4 % agricultural/ construction 3 % backlog: as of december 25, 2005, our backlog of firm orders for our commercial segment was $257 million. this compares with $226 million as of december 26, 2004. standard commercial products are typically shipped between two weeks and three months after receipt of order. therefore, the backlog of such orders is not indicative of probable revenues in any future 12-month period. 4 table of contents marketing: the majority of our commercial segment products are sold to original equipment manufacturers through a direct sales force of field representatives and technical specialists. we also market our marine products through dealers, distributors and retail outlets serving owners of recreational boats. our mobile auxiliary power units and climate control units are marketed by our field sales force to dealers and owners of heavy duty trucks and industrial vehicles. fuel systems and components include custom applications sold directly to military customers and to the automotive aftermarket in europe. medical our medical segment businesses develop, manufacture and distribute disposable medical products, surgical instruments, medical devices and specialty devices for healthcare providers and medical equipment manufacturers. our products are largely sold and distributed to hospitals and healthcare providers in a range of clinical settings. these products are provided through business operating units organized around product category, market knowledge, geographical location and technical expertise. major manufacturing operations are located in north america, europe and asia. markets for these products are influenced by a number of factors including demographics, utilization and reimbursement patterns in the worldwide healthcare market. disposable medical products: this is the largest product category in the medical segment, representing 61 percent of segment revenues in 2005. our disposable medical products are generally used in the clinical specialty areas of anesthesia, respiratory care and urology. anesthesia and respiratory care products include those used in airway management, oxygen administration and therapy, humidification and aerosol therapy. urology products include: catheters, drain and irrigation supplies. our products are marketed under the brand names of rusch, hudsonrci, gibeck and sheridan. the large majority of sales for disposable medical products are made to the hospital/ healthcare provider market with a smaller percentage to the home health market and medical device manufacturers. surgical instruments and medical devices: products in this category represented 31 percent of medical segment revenues in 2005. our surgical instrument and medical device products include: hand-held instruments for general and specialty surgical procedures, devices used in cardiovascular, orthopedic and general surgery and minimally-invasive diagnostic and therapeutic care. we also produce and market a range of ligation and closure products. in addition, we provide instrument management and sterilization services. we market surgical instruments and medical devices under the deknatel, pleur-evac, pilling and weck brand names. specialty devices: specialty devices represented 8 percent of medical segment revenues in 2005. products in this category include custom-designed and manufactured specialty instruments for cardiovascular and orthopedic procedures, specialty sutures, microcatheters, introducers and guidewires. we also design and manufacture specialty devices and instruments for industry leading medical device manufacturers and provide them with outsourcing services. our brands include beere, kmedic and deknatel. specialty devices are generally marketed to medical device manufacturers. the following table sets forth revenues for 2005, 2004 and 2003 by significant product category for the medical segment. 2005 2004 2003 (dollars in thousands) disposable medical products $ 502,768 $ 427,888 $ 282,047 surgical instruments and medical devices $ 261,199 $ 256,389 $ 204,474 no other product line for the medical segment amounted to more than 10% of consolidated revenues for any period presented. 5 table of contents the following table sets forth the percentage of revenues by end market for 2005 for the medical segment. hospitals/ healthcare providers 74 % medical device manufacturers 17 % home health 9 % backlog: as of december 25, 2005, our backlog of firm orders for our medical segment was $65 million. this compares with $65 million as of december 26, 2004. substantially all of the december 25, 2005 backlog will be filled in 2006. most of our medical products are sold on orders calling for delivery within a few months. therefore, the backlog of such orders is not indicative of probable revenues in any future 12-month period. marketing: medical products are sold directly to hospitals, healthcare providers, distributors and to original equipment manufacturers of medical devices through our own sales forces and through independent representatives and independent distributor networks. aerospace our aerospace segment businesses provide repair products and services for flight and ground-based turbine engines; manufacture and distribute precision-machined components; and design, manufacture and market cargo-handling systems. these products require a high degree of engineering sophistication and are often custom-designed. they are provided through business operating units organized by market and technical expertise. major operations are located in north america, europe and asia. commercial aviation markets represent the majority percentage of revenues in this segment. markets for these products are generally influenced by spending patterns in the commercial aviation and military markets. repair products and services: the largest single product category in the aerospace segment, repair products and services represented 49 percent of segment revenues in 2005. this category includes repair technologies and services primarily for critical components of flight turbines, including fan blades and airfoils. we utilize advanced reprofiling and adaptive-machining techniques to improve efficiency of aircraft engine performance and reduce turnaround time for maintenance and repairs. repair products and services are provided through service locations in north america, europe and asia. our repair products and services business is conducted through a consolidated, but not wholly-owned, subsidiary called airfoil technologies international (ati), whose product line serves many of the industry leading aircraft engine providers and a range of commercial airlines. precision-machined components: products in this category represented 26 percent of aerospace segment revenues in 2005. our precision-machined components include: fan blades, compressor blades, cases, blisks and other components for military and commercial flight turbine engines and a range of custom-designed and manufactured products for industrial markets. the vast majority of our precision-machined components are sold to original equipment manufacturers of aircraft engines and for military applications, with a very small percentage of products sold to industrial markets. cargo-handling systems: products in this category represented 25 percent of aerospace segment revenues in 2005. our cargo-handling systems include on-board cargo-handling systems for wide-body and narrow-body aircraft, actuators, cargo containers, aftermarket spare parts and repair services. marketed under the telair international brand name, our wide-body cargo-handling systems are sold to aircraft original equipment manufacturers or to airlines and air freight carriers as buyer furnished equipment for original installations or as retrofits for existing equipment. our other telair products in this category include: narrow-body aircraft cargo-loading systems and cargo containers. we also manufacture and repair components for 6 table of contents our systems and other related aircraft controls, including canopy and door actuators, cargo winches and flight controls. the following table sets forth revenues for 2005, 2004 and 2003 by significant product category for the aerospace segment. 2005 2004 2003 (dollars in thousands) repair products and services $ 241,532 $ 234,822 $ 233,381 no other product line for the aerospace segment amounted to more than 10% of consolidated revenues for any period presented. the following table sets forth the percentage of revenues by end market for 2005 for the aerospace segment. commercial aviation 84 % military 12 % power generation and other 4 % backlog: as of december 25, 2005, our backlog of firm orders for our aerospace segment was $316 million, of which we expect nearly three-fourths to be filled in 2006. our backlog for our aerospace segment on december 26, 2004 was $289 million. marketing: generally, products sold to the aerospace market are sold through our own force of field representatives. discontinued operations during the third quarter of 2005, we completed the sale of our automotive pedal systems business and sold a european medical product sterilization business. during the second quarter of 2005, we adopted a plan to sell a small medical business and we are actively marketing this business. during the first quarter of 2005, we completed the sale of sermatech international, a surface-engineering/specialty coatings business. for 2005 and comparable periods, the automotive pedal systems business, the european medical product sterilization business, the small medical business and sermatech business have been presented in our consolidated financial statements as discontinued operations. the sermatech business was previously reported as part of our aerospace segment. for a more complete discussion, see note 15 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. government regulation government agencies in a number of countries regulate our products and the products sold by our customers utilizing our products. the u.s. food and drug administration and government agencies in other countries regulate the approval, manufacturing and sale and marketing of many of our healthcare products. the u.s. federal aviation administration and the european aviation safety agency regulate the manufacturing and sale of some of our aerospace products and license the operation of our repair stations. the national highway traffic safety administration regulates the manufacturing and sale of numerous of our automotive products. competition given the range and diversity of our products and markets, no one competitor offers competitive products for all the markets and customers that we serve. in general, all of our segments and product lines face significant competition from competitors of varying sizes, although the number of competitors in each market tends to be limited. we believe that our competitive position depends on the technical competence 7 table of contents and creative ability of our engineering personnel, the know-how and skill of our manufacturing personnel and the strength and scope of our sales, service and distribution networks. patents and trademarks we own a portfolio of patents, patents pending and trademarks. we also license various patents and trademarks. patents for individual products extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. trademark rights may potentially extend for longer periods of time and are dependent upon national laws and use of the marks. all capitalized product names throughout this document are trademarks owned by, or licensed to, us or our subsidiaries. although these have been of value and are expected to continue to be of value in the future, we do not consider any single patent or trademark, except for the teleflex brand, to be material to the operation of our business. suppliers and materials materials used in the manufacture of our products are purchased from a large number of suppliers in diverse geographic locations. we are not dependent on any single supplier for a substantial amount of the materials used or components supplied for our overall operations. most of the materials and components we use are available from multiple sources and where practical, we attempt to identify alternative suppliers. volatility in commodity markets, particularly steel and plastic resins, can have a significant impact on the cost of producing certain of our products. we cannot be assured of successfully passing these cost increases through to all of our customers, particularly oems. seasonality a portion of our revenues, particularly in the commercial and medical segments, are subject to seasonal fluctuations. revenues in the automotive and industrial markets are generally reduced in the third quarter of each year as a result of preparations by oem manufacturers for the upcoming model year. in addition, marine aftermarket revenues generally increase in the second quarter as boat owners prepare their watercraft for the upcoming season. incidence of flu and other disease patterns as well as the frequency of elective medical procedures affect revenues related to disposable medical products. employees we employed approximately 20,400 full-time and temporary employees at december 25, 2005. of these employees, approximately 8,100 were employed in the united states and 12,300 in countries outside of the united states. less than 10 percent of our employees in the united states were covered by union contracts. we have government-mandated collective-bargaining arrangements or union contracts that cover employees in other countries. we believe we have good relationships with our employees. investor information we are subject to the informational requirements of the securities exchange act of 1934. therefore, we file reports and information, proxy statements and other information with the securities and exchange commission. such reports, proxy and information statements and other information may be obtained by visiting the public reference room of the sec at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549 or by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. in addition, the sec maintains an internet site ( http://www.sec.gov ) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. you can access financial and other information in the investors section of our web site. the address is www.teleflex.com . we make available through our web site, free of charge, copies of our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports 8 table of contents filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the sec. the information on the web site listed above is not and should not be considered part of this annual report on form 10-k and is intended to be an inactive textual reference only. we are a delaware corporation organized in 1943. our executive offices are located at 155 south limerick road, limerick, pa 19468. our telephone number is (610) 948-5100. executive officers the names and ages of all of our executive officers as of february 21, 2006 and the positions and offices held by each such officer are as follows: name age positions and offices with company lennox k. black 75 chairman of the board john j. sickler 63 vice chairman jeffrey p. black 46 president, chief executive officer and director clark d. handy 49 executive vice president human resources martin s. headley 49 executive vice president and chief financial officer laurence g. miller 51 senior vice president, general counsel and secretary kevin k. gordon 43 senior vice president corporate development vince northfield 42 president commercial forrest whittaker 56 president medical john suddarth 46 president aerospace mr. lennox k. black has been chairman of the board since april 1983. from january 2000 until may 2002, he was also chief executive officer. lennox k. black is the father of mr. jeffrey p. black. mr. sickler has been vice chairman since december 2000. from december 2003 until august 2004, he was interim chief financial officer. prior to december 2000 he was a senior vice president. mr. jeffrey p. black has been chief executive officer since may 2002 and president since december 2000. he has been a director since november 2002. mr. jeffrey p. black was president of the teleflex industrial group from july 2000 to december 2000 and president of teleflex fluid systems from january 1999 to july 2000. mr. handy has been executive vice president human resources since april 2003. he was vice president of human resources for the research and development division of wyeth, an international provider of pharmaceuticals, consumer healthcare products, and animal healthcare products, from august 2000 to april 2003, and from november 1998 until august 2000 he was vice president of human resources for the supply chain division of wyeth. mr. headley has been executive vice president and chief financial officer since august 2004. from july 1996 until august 2004, he was vice president and chief financial officer of roper industries, inc., a diversified industrial company that designs, manufactures and distributes engineered products and solutions for global niche markets. from july 1993 to june 1996, mr. headley served as chief financial officer of the u.s. operations of mckechnie group, plc, a manufacturer of components and assemblies for a variety of industries. mr. miller has been senior vice president, general counsel and secretary since november 2004, following a 20-year career with aramark corporation. from november 2001 until november 2004, he was senior vice president and associate general counsel for food support services division of aramark, a diversified management services company providing food, refreshment, facility and other support services for a variety 9 table of contents of organizations. from june 1994 until november 2001, mr. miller was senior vice president and general counsel for aramark uniform services. mr. gordon has been senior vice president corporate development since june 2005. from december 2000 to june 2005, mr. gordon was vice president corporate development. prior to december 2000, mr. gordon was director of business development. mr. northfield has been the president of teleflex commercial since june 2005. from 2004 to 2005, mr. northfield was the president of teleflex automotive and the vice president of strategic development. mr. northfield held the position of vice president of strategic development from 2001 to 2004. prior to 2001, mr. northfield was vice president and general manager of north american operations of morse controls, a manufacturer of performance and control systems and aftermarket parts for marine and industrial applications, which was acquired by teleflex in 2001. mr. whittaker has been the president of teleflex medical since april 2003. prior to joining teleflex, mr. whittaker was the president of the respiratory division of tyco healthcare, a company engaged in the manufacture, distribution and servicing of medical devices. mr. suddarth has been the president of teleflex aerospace since july 2004. from 2003 to 2004, mr. suddarth was the president of techsonic industries inc., a subsidiary of teleflex that manufactured underwater sonar and video viewing equipment which was divested in 2004. mr. suddarth was the chief operating officer of amf bowling products, inc., a bowling equipment manufacturer, from 2001 to 2003. prior to 2001, mr. suddarth was president of morse controls, a manufacturer of performance and control systems and aftermarket parts for marine and industrial applications, which was acquired by teleflex in 2001. our officers are elected annually by the board of directors at the first meeting of the board held after our annual stockholders meeting. each officer serves at the pleasure of the board until their respective successors have been elected. item 1a. risk factors " --> item 1a. risk factors our business is subject to certain risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. these risks include, but are not limited to, the following: the costs associated with our restructuring and divestiture program may be greater than expected. we are engaged in a restructuring and divestiture program, which requires management to utilize significant estimates related to realizable values of assets made redundant or obsolete and expenses for severance and other employee separation costs, lease cancellation and other exit costs. although the program is substantially completed, actual results could differ materially from those estimated due to, among other things: inability to sell businesses at prices, or within time-periods, anticipated by management; unanticipated expenditures in connection with the effectuation of the program; costs and length of time required to comply with legal requirements applicable to certain aspects of the program; inability to realize anticipated cost savings; and unanticipated difficulties in connection with consolidation of manufacturing and administrative functions. many of the industries in which we operate are cyclical, and, accordingly, our business is subject to changes in the economy. although the diversified nature of our business reduces the risk that all of our operations would experience simultaneous cyclical downturns, many of the businesses which we operate are subject to specific industry and general economic cycles, most acutely in the automotive, marine, aerospace and transportation industries. accordingly, any downturn in these or other markets in which we participate could materially adversely affect us. moreover, if demand changes and we fail to respond accordingly, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected in any given quarter. 10 table of contents we are subject to risks associated with our non-u.s. operations. although no material concentration of our manufacturing operations exists in any single country, we have significant manufacturing operations outside the united states, including entities that are not wholly-owned and other alliances. as of december 25, 2005, approximately 42% of our total assets and 55% of our total revenues were attributable to products distributed from our operations outside the u.s. our international operations are subject to varying degrees of risk inherent in doing business outside the u.s., including: exchange controls and currency restrictions; trade protection measures and import or export requirements; subsidies or increased access to capital for firms who are currently or may emerge as competitors in countries in which we have operations; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; differing labor regulations; differing protection of intellectual property; and unsettled political conditions and possible terrorist attacks against american interests. these and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our products are typically integrated into other manufacturers products. as a result changes in demand for our customers products may adversely affect our revenues on short notice. many of our customers in the commercial and aerospace segments, including oems, integrate our products into products our customers sell. our customers also generally have no obligation to purchase any minimum quantity of product from us and may terminate our arrangement on short notice, typically 30 to 90 days, sometimes less. our reported backlog may not be realized as revenues. revenues could materially decline if these customers experience a reduction in demand for their products or cancel a significant number of contracts and we cannot replace them with similar arrangements. customers in our medical segment depend on third party reimbursement. demand for some of our medical products is impacted by the reimbursement to our customers of patients medical expenses by government healthcare programs and private health insurers in the countries where we do business. internationally, medical reimbursement systems vary significantly, with medical centers in some countries having fixed budgets, regardless of the level of patient treatment. other countries require application for, and approval of, government or third party reimbursement. without both favorable coverage determinations by, and the financial support of, government and third party insurers, the market for some of our medical products could be impacted. we cannot be sure that third party payors will maintain the current level of reimbursement to our customers for use of our existing products. adverse coverage determinations or any reduction in the amount of this reimbursement could harm our business. in addition, through their purchasing power, these payors often seek discounts, price reductions or other incentives from medical products suppliers. uncertainties regarding future healthcare policy, legislation and regulations, as well as private market practices, could affect our ability to sell our products in commercially acceptable quantities at profitable prices. foreign currency exchange rate, commodity price and interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. we expect revenue from products manufactured in, and sold into, non-u.s. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our net revenue. our consoli- 11 table of contents dated financial statements reflect translation of items denominated in non-u.s. currencies to u.s. dollars, our reporting currency. when the u.s. dollar strengthens or weakens in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries where we sell or manufacture our products, such as the euro, our u.s. dollar-reported revenue and income will fluctuate. although we maintain a currency hedging program to reduce the effects of this fluctuation, changes in the relative values of currencies occur from time to time and may, in some instances, have a significant effect on our results of operations. many of our products have significant steel and plastic resin content. we also use quantities of other commodities, including copper and zinc. we monitor these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program. however, volatility in the prices of these commodities could increase the costs of our products and services. we may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers and this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. we depend on our ability to develop new products. the future success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability to design and manufacture new competitive products and to enhance existing products, including developing electronic technology to replace or improve upon mechanical technology. this product development may require substantial investment by us. there can be no assurance that unforeseen problems will not occur with respect to the development, performance or market acceptance of new technologies or products, such as the inability to: identify viable new products; obtain adequate intellectual property protection; gain market acceptance of new products; or successfully obtain regulatory approvals. moreover, we may not otherwise be able to successfully develop and market new products. our failure to successfully develop and market new products could reduce our margins, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our technology is important to our success and our failure to protect this technology could put us at a competitive disadvantage. because many of our products rely on proprietary technology, we believe that the development and protection of these intellectual property rights is important to the future success of our business. in addition to relying on patent, trademark and copyright rights, we rely on unpatented proprietary know-how and trade secrets, and employ various methods, including confidentiality agreements with employees, to protect our know-how and trade secrets. despite our efforts to protect proprietary rights, unauthorized parties or competitors may copy or otherwise obtain and use these products or technology. the steps we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of this technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the u.s., and there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop the know-how and trade secrets or develop better technology than us or that current and former employees, contractors and other parties will not breach confidentiality agreements, misappropriate proprietary information and copy or otherwise obtain and use our information and proprietary technology without authorization or otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. we are subject to a variety of litigation in the course of our business that could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we are a party to various lawsuits and claims arising in the normal course of business. these lawsuits and claims include actions involving product liability, contracts, intellectual property, employment and environmental matters. the defense of these lawsuits may divert our management attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. in addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or 12 table of contents settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. the outcome of these legal proceedings may differ from our expectations because the outcomes of litigation, including regulatory matters, are often difficult to reliably predict. we may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability and warranty and recall claims that may be brought against us. we may be exposed to product liability and warranty claims in the event that our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected or the use of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury and/or property damage. accordingly, we could experience material warranty or product liability losses in the future and incur significant costs to defend these claims. in addition, if any of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective, we may be required to participate in a recall of that product if the defect or the alleged defect relates to safety. product liability, warranty and recall costs may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. much of our business is subject to extensive regulation and/or oversight by the government and failure to comply with those regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. numerous national and local government agencies in a number of countries regulate our products and the products sold by our customers incorporating our products. the national highway traffic safety administration regulates the manufacturing and sale of many of our automotive products. the u.s. food and drug administration regulates the approval, manufacturing and sale and marketing of many of our medical products. the u.s. federal aviation administration and the european aviation safety agency regulate the manufacturing and sale of some of our aerospace products and licenses the operation of our repair stations. failure to comply with applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines could lead to temporary manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages or delays in product manufacturing. we are also subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things: the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; and the health and safety of our employees. these laws and government regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations or that we will not be subject to additional environmental claims for personal injury or cleanup in the future based on our past, present or future business activities. there is the possibility that acquisitions and strategic alliances may not meet revenue and/or profit expectations. as part of our strategy for growth, we have made and may continue to make acquisitions and divestitures and enter into strategic alliances. however, there can be no assurance that these will be completed or beneficial to us. we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions or integrate acquisitions successfully. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies and the diversion of management attention from other business concerns. although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in any particular transaction, there can be no assurance that we will properly ascertain all 13 table of contents such risks. in addition, prior acquisitions have resulted, and future acquisitions could result, in the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness and other expenses. future acquisitions may also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities. there can be no assurance that difficulties encountered with acquisitions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our workforce covered by collective bargaining and similar agreements could cause interruptions in our provision of services. approximately 15% of manufacturing revenues are produced by operations for which a significant part of our workforce is covered by collective bargaining agreements and similar agreements in foreign jurisdictions. it is likely that a significant portion of our workforce will remain covered by collective bargaining and similar agreements for the foreseeable future. strikes or work stoppages could occur that would adversely impact our relationships with our customers and our ability to conduct our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk " --> item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk we are exposed to certain financial risks, specifically fluctuations in market interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and, to a lesser extent, commodity prices. we use derivative financial instruments to manage or reduce the impact of some of these risks. all instruments are entered into for other than trading purposes. we are also exposed to changes in the market traded price of our common stock as it influences the valuation of stock options and their effect on pro forma earnings as disclosed. 29 table of contents interest rate risk we are exposed to changes in interest rates as a result of our borrowing activities and our cash balances. interest rate swaps are used to manage a portion of our interest rate risk. the table below is an analysis of the amortization and related interest rates by year of maturity for our fixed and variable rate debt obligations. variable interest rates shown below are weighted average rates of the debt portfolio. for the swaps, notional amounts and related interest rates are shown by year of maturity. the fair value of the interest rate swaps as of december 25, 2005 was $1.5 million. year of maturity 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 thereafter total (dollars in thousands) fixed rate debt $ 6,506 $ 6,500 $ 17,655 $ $ $ 400,000 $ 430,661 average interest rate 7.1% 7.1% 6.0% 5.6% 5.6% variable rate debt $ 119,004 $ 24,239 $ 38,241 $ 18,637 $ $ $ 200,121 average interest rate 4.4% 4.9% 3.0% 5.4% 4.3% amount subject to swaps: variable to fixed $ 52,981 average rate to be received 3.7% average rate to be paid 5.8% a 1.0% increase or decrease in variable interest rates would adversely or positively impact our expected net earnings by approximately $1.1 million or ($1.1 million), respectively. foreign currency risk we are exposed to fluctuations in market values of transactions in currencies other than the functional currencies of certain subsidiaries. we have entered into forward contracts with several major financial institutions to hedge a portion of projected cash flows from these exposures. the following table presents our open forward currency contracts as of december 25, 2005, which all mature in 2006. forward contract notional amounts presented below are expressed in the stated currencies (in thousands). the fair value of the open forward contracts as of december 25, 2005 was $0.5 million. forward currency contracts: pay u.s. dollars (41,115 ) receive euros 9,600 receive singapore dollars 37,947 receive canadian dollars 1,609 receive swedish krona 36,102 receive british pounds 4,096 receive malaysian ringgits 44,528 a movement of 10% in the value of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies would impact our expected net earnings by approximately $0.9 million.risk factors of this annual report on form 10-k. we expressly disclaim any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements, except as otherwise specifically stated by us. 2 table of contents part i item 1. business overview teleflex incorporated is a diversified industrial company specializing in the design, manufacture and distribution of specialty-engineered products. we serve a wide range of customers in niche segments of the commercial, medical and aerospace industries. our products include: driver controls, motion controls, power and vehicle management systems and fluid management systems for commercial industries; disposable medical products, surgical instruments, medical devices and specialty devices for hospitals and healthcare providers; and repair products and services, precision-machined components and cargo-handling systems for commercial and military aviation as well as other industrial markets. for more than 60 years, we have provided engineered products that help our customers meet their business requirements. we have grown through an active program of development of new products, introduction of products into new geographic or end-markets and through acquisitions of companies with related market, technology or industry expertise. we serve a diverse customer base through operations in 23 countries and local direct sales and distribution networks. in 2006, products directly distributed from our operations in the united states accounted for 43 percent of revenues, and products directly distributed from our operations in other countries represented 57 percent of revenues. our business segments we organize our business into three business segments commercial, medical and aerospace. for 2006, the percentages of our consolidated net revenues represented by our segments were as follows: commercial 47%; medical 33%; and aerospace 20%. additional information regarding our segments and geographic areas is presented in note 15 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. commercial our commercial segment businesses principally design, manufacture and distribute driver control, motion control, power and vehicle management and fluid management products and systems. our products are used by a wide range of markets including the passenger car and light truck, marine, recreational, mobile power equipment, military, agricultural and construction vehicle, truck and bus and various other industrial equipment sectors. major manufacturing operations are located in north america, europe and asia. driver controls: this is the largest single product category in the commercial segment, representing 44 percent of commercial segment revenues in 2006. products in this category include: full manual and automatic gearshift systems, transmission guide controls, park-lock cables, control cables, mechanical and hydraulic steering, steering columns, throttle controls and industrial vehicle pedal systems. our driver controls are used in a variety of vehicles, including passenger cars, boats, trucks, agricultural vehicles and recreational vehicles. we are a global supplier of manual and automatic gearshift systems and control cables for passenger cars and light trucks and a leading global provider of both mechanical and hydraulic steering systems for recreational boats. motion controls: products in this category represented 25 percent of commercial segment revenues in 2006. motion controls include: mechanical and electro-mechanical controls for seat-comfort, interior flexibility, movement and regulation of window, door, function and other safety controls and mobile power equipment controls and products for heavy-lift applications. while the largest portion of this category relates to seat and interior comfort and motion systems sold to automotive suppliers and industrial vehicle manufacturers, our motion systems also serve a wide range of other markets and applications. for example, we are a large supplier of safety cable and light-duty motion controls used in mobile power equipment, and our heavy-lift products, 3 table of contents which include heavy-duty cables, hoisting and rigging equipment, are used in oil drilling and other industrial markets. power and vehicle management systems: products in this category represented 20 percent of commercial segment revenues in 2006. power and vehicle management systems include: mobile auxiliary power systems, fuel management systems and components, industrial actuation products and components, instrumentation and electronic controls for engine and vehicle management, diagnostics and monitoring. these products generally address the need for greater fuel efficiency, reduced emissions, mobile power and improved connectivity of engine and vehicle systems. our major products in this category include mobile auxiliary power units used for power and climate control in heavy duty trucks, industrial vehicles and locomotives, instrumentation and electronic products for marine and industrial vehicles and components and systems for the use of alternative fuels in military, industrial and automotive applications. fluid management systems: products in this category represented 11 percent of commercial segment revenues in 2006. fluid management products include premium-branded, custom-manufactured and bulk hose and related assemblies that are generally custom-designed and manufactured to address specific requirements for vapor permeation, durability and flexibility. our fluid management products can be found in automobiles, recreational boats, remote sensing devices, high-purity food processing, underground fuel transfer, compressed natural gas applications and in a number of other industrial product and equipment applications. the largest percentage of fluid management systems are sold to automotive and industrial customers. the following table sets forth revenues for 2006, 2005 and 2004 by product category for the commercial segment. 2006 2005 2004 (dollars in thousands) driver controls $ 557,421 $ 554,707 $ 570,410 motion controls $ 308,003 $ 283,698 $ 264,653 power and vehicle management systems $ 250,121 $ 222,951 $ 238,838 fluid management systems $ 135,293 $ 128,289 $ 126,947 the following table sets forth the percentage of revenues by end market for 2006 for the commercial segment. automotive 52 % marine/recreational 19 % industrial equipment and other 13 % truck and bus 8 % heavy lift 5 % agricultural/construction 3 % backlog: as of december 31, 2006, our backlog of firm orders for our commercial segment was $247 million. this compares with $257 million as of december 25, 2005. standard commercial segment products are typically shipped between two weeks and three months after receipt of order. therefore, the backlog of such orders is not indicative of probable revenues in any future 12-month period. marketing: the majority of our commercial segment products are sold to original equipment manufacturers, or oems, through a direct sales force of field representatives and technical specialists. we also market our marine products and mobile auxiliary power units through dealers, distributors and retail outlets serving owners of recreational boats. fuel systems and components include custom applications sold directly to industrial equipment manufacturers and to the automotive aftermarket principally in europe. 4 table of contents medical our medical segment businesses develop, manufacture and distribute disposable medical products, surgical instruments, medical devices and specialty devices for healthcare providers and medical equipment manufacturers. our products are largely sold and distributed to hospitals and healthcare providers in a range of clinical settings. major manufacturing operations are located in north america, europe and asia. markets for these products are influenced by a number of factors including demographics, utilization and reimbursement patterns in the worldwide healthcare market. disposable medical products: this is the largest product category in the medical segment, representing 63 percent of segment revenues in 2006. our disposable medical products are generally used in the clinical specialty areas of anesthesia, respiratory care and urology. anesthesia and respiratory care products include those used in airway management, sleep therapy, oxygen administration and therapy, humidification and aerosol therapy. urology products include: catheters and drain and irrigation supplies. our products are marketed under the brand names of rusch, hudsonrci, gibeck and sheridan. the large majority of sales for disposable medical products are made to the hospital/healthcare provider market, with a smaller percentage sold to the home health market and medical device manufacturers. surgical instruments and medical devices: products in this category represented 27 percent of medical segment revenues in 2006. our surgical instrument and medical device products include: hand-held instruments for general and specialty surgical procedures, devices used in cardiovascular, orthopedic and general surgery and minimally-invasive diagnostic and therapeutic care. we also produce and market a range of ligation and closure products. in addition, we provide instrument management and sterilization services. we market surgical instruments and medical devices under the deknatel, pleur-evac, pilling and weck brand names. specialty devices: specialty devices represented 10 percent of medical segment revenues in 2006. products in this category include custom-designed and manufactured specialty instruments for cardiovascular and orthopedic procedures, specialty sutures, microcatheters, introducers and guidewires. we also design and manufacture specialty devices and instruments for industry leading medical device manufacturers and provide them with outsourcing services. our brands include beere, kmedic and deknatel. specialty devices are generally marketed to medical device manufacturers. the following table sets forth revenues for 2006, 2005 and 2004 by product category for the medical segment. 2006 2005 2004 (dollars in thousands) disposable medical products $ 538,859 $ 502,768 $ 427,888 surgical instruments and medical devices $ 232,555 $ 261,199 $ 256,389 specialty devices $ 87,262 $ 67,171 $ 52,075 the following table sets forth the percentage of revenues by end market for 2006 for the medical segment. hospitals/healthcare providers 75 % medical device manufacturers 17 % home health 8 % backlog: as of december 31, 2006, our backlog of firm orders for our medical segment was $65 million. this compares with $65 million as of december 25, 2005. we expect substantially all of the december 31, 2006 backlog to be filled in 2007. most of our medical products are sold on orders calling for delivery within a few months. therefore, the backlog of such orders is not indicative of probable revenues in any future 12-month period. 5 table of contents marketing: medical products are sold directly to hospitals, healthcare providers, distributors and to original equipment manufacturers of medical devices through our own sales forces and through independent representatives and independent distributor networks. aerospace our aerospace segment businesses provide repair products and services for flight and ground-based turbine engines; manufacture and distribute precision-machined components; and design, manufacture and market cargo-handling systems. these products require a high degree of engineering sophistication and are often custom-designed. major operations are located in north america, europe and asia. commercial aviation markets represent a significant majority percentage of revenues in this segment. markets for these products are generally influenced by spending patterns in the commercial aviation and military markets. repair products and services: the largest single product category in the aerospace segment, repair products and services represented 47 percent of segment revenues in 2006. this category includes repair technologies and services primarily for critical components of flight turbines, including fan blades and airfoils. we utilize advanced reprofiling and adaptive-machining techniques to improve efficiency of aircraft engine performance and reduce turnaround time for maintenance and repairs. repair products and services are provided through service locations in north america, europe and asia. our repair products and services business is conducted through a consolidated, but not wholly-owned, subsidiary called airfoil technologies international (ati), whose product line serves many of the industry leading aircraft engine providers and a range of commercial airlines. cargo-handling systems: products in this category represented 29 percent of aerospace segment revenues in 2006. our cargo-handling systems include on-board cargo-handling systems for wide-body and narrow-body aircraft, actuators, cargo containers, aftermarket spare parts and repair services. marketed under the telair international brand name, our wide-body cargo-handling systems are sold to aircraft oems or to airlines and air freight carriers as buyer furnished equipment for original installations or as retrofits for existing equipment. our other telair products in this category include narrow-body aircraft cargo-loading systems and cargo containers. we also manufacture and repair components for our systems and other related aircraft controls, including canopy and door actuators, cargo winches and flight controls. precision-machined components: products in this category represented 24 percent of aerospace segment revenues in 2006. our precision-machined components include: fan blades, compressor blades, cases, blisks and other components for military and commercial flight turbine engines and a range of custom-designed and manufactured products for industrial markets. most of our precision-machined components are sold to original equipment manufacturers of aircraft engines and for military applications, with a very small percentage of products sold to industrial markets. the following table sets forth revenues for 2006, 2005 and 2004 by product category for the aerospace segment. 2006 2005 2004 (dollars in thousands) repair products and services $ 250,519 $ 241,532 $ 234,822 cargo-handling systems $ 154,853 $ 125,298 $ 99,970 precision-machined components $ 131,871 $ 126,939 $ 118,419 6 table of contents the following table sets forth the percentage of revenues by end market for 2006 for the aerospace segment. commercial aviation 89 % military 8 % industrial and other 3 % backlog: as of december 31, 2006, our backlog of firm orders for our aerospace segment was $329 million, of which we expect approximately 80 percent to be filled in 2007. our backlog for our aerospace segment on december 25, 2005 was $316 million. marketing: generally, products sold to the aerospace market are sold through our own force of field representatives. discontinued operations in october 2006, we sold a small medical business that was classified as held for sale during the second quarter of 2005. during the third quarter of 2005, we completed the sale of our automotive pedal systems business and sold a european medical product sterilization business. during the first quarter of 2005, we completed the sale of sermatech international, a surface-engineering/specialty coatings business. for 2006 and comparable periods, the small medical business, the automotive pedal systems business, the european medical product sterilization business and sermatech business have been presented in our consolidated financial statements as discontinued operations. the sermatech business was previously reported as part of our aerospace segment. for a more complete discussion, see note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. government regulation government agencies in a number of countries regulate our products and the products sold by our customers utilizing our products. the u.s. food and drug administration and government agencies in other countries regulate the approval, manufacturing and sale and marketing of many of our healthcare products. the u.s. federal aviation administration and the european aviation safety agency regulate the manufacture and sale of some of our aerospace products and license the operation of our repair stations. the u.s. national highway traffic safety administration and government agencies in other countries regulate the manufacture and sale of many of our automotive products. competition given the range and diversity of our products and markets, no one competitor offers competitive products for all the markets and customers that we serve. in general, all of our segments and product lines face significant competition from competitors of varying sizes, although the number of competitors in each market tends to be limited. we believe that our competitive position depends on the technical competence and creative ability of our engineering personnel, the know-how and skill of our manufacturing personnel and the strength and scope of our sales, service and distribution networks. patents and trademarks we own a portfolio of patents, patents pending and trademarks. we also license various patents and trademarks. patents for individual products extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. trademark rights may potentially extend for longer periods of time and are dependent upon national laws and use of the marks. all capitalized product names throughout this document are trademarks owned by, or licensed to, us or our subsidiaries. although these have been of value and are expected to continue to be of value in the future, we 7 table of contents do not consider any single patent or trademark, except for the teleflex brand, to be essential to the operation of our business. suppliers and materials materials used in the manufacture of our products are purchased from a large number of suppliers in diverse geographic locations. we are not dependent on any single supplier for a substantial amount of the materials used or components supplied for our overall operations. most of the materials and components we use are available from multiple sources, and where practical, we attempt to identify alternative suppliers. volatility in commodity markets, particularly steel and plastic resins, can have a significant impact on the cost of producing certain of our products. we cannot be assured of successfully passing these cost increases through to all of our customers, particularly oems. seasonality a portion of our revenues, particularly in the commercial and medical segments, are subject to seasonal fluctuations. revenues in the automotive and industrial markets are generally reduced in the third quarter of each year as a result of preparations by oems for the upcoming model year. in addition, marine aftermarket revenues generally increase in the second quarter as boat owners prepare their watercraft for the upcoming season. incidence of flu and other disease patterns as well as the frequency of elective medical procedures affect revenues related to disposable medical products. employees we employed approximately 19,800 full-time and temporary employees at december 31, 2006. of these employees, approximately 7,100 were employed in the united states and 12,700 in countries outside of the united states. less than 10 percent of our employees in the united states were covered by union contracts. we have government-mandated collective-bargaining arrangements or union contracts that cover employees in other countries. we believe we have good relationships with our employees. investor information we are subject to the informational requirements of the securities exchange act of 1934. therefore, we file reports and information, proxy statements and other information with the securities and exchange commission. such reports, proxy and information statements and other information may be obtained by visiting the public reference room of the sec at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549 or by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. in addition, the sec maintains an internet site ( http://www.sec.gov ) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. you can access financial and other information in the investors section of our web site. the address is www.teleflex.com . we make available through our web site, free of charge, copies of our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the sec. the information on our web site is not and should not be considered part of this annual report on form 10-k and is intended to be an inactive textual reference only. we are a delaware corporation organized in 1943. our executive offices are located at 155 south limerick road, limerick, pa 19468. our telephone number is (610) 948-5100. 8 table of contents executive officers the names and ages of all of our executive officers as of february 15, 2007 and the positions and offices held by each such officer are as follows: name age positions and offices with company jeffrey p. black 47 chairman, chief executive officer and director john j. sickler 64 vice chairman and director martin s. headley 50 executive vice president and chief financial officer laurence g. miller 52 senior vice president, general counsel and secretary kevin k. gordon 44 senior vice president corporate development vince northfield 43 president commercial r. ernest waaser 50 president medical john suddarth 47 president aerospace mr. black has been chairman since may 2006, chief executive officer since may 2002 and president since december 2000. he has been a director since november 2002. mr. black was president of the teleflex industrial group from july 2000 to december 2000 and president of teleflex fluid systems from january 1999 to july 2000. mr. sickler has been vice chairman since december 2000. he has been a director since may 2006. from may 2006 to october 2006, he served as interim president of teleflex medical, and from december 2003 until august 2004, he was interim chief financial officer. prior to december 2000 he was a senior vice president. mr. headley has been executive vice president and chief financial officer since august 2004. from july 1996 until august 2004, he was vice president and chief financial officer of roper industries, inc., a diversified industrial company that designs, manufactures and distributes engineered products and solutions for global niche markets. from july 1993 to june 1996, mr. headley served as chief financial officer of the u.s. operations of mckechnie group, plc, a manufacturer of components and assemblies for a variety of industries. mr. miller has been senior vice president, general counsel and secretary since november 2004, following a 20-year career with aramark corporation, a diversified management services company providing food, refreshment, facility and other support services for a variety of organizations. from november 2001 until november 2004, he was senior vice president and associate general counsel for the food support services division of aramark. from june 1994 until november 2001, mr. miller was senior vice president and general counsel for aramark uniform services. mr. gordon has been senior vice president corporate development since june 2005. from december 2000 to june 2005, mr. gordon was vice president corporate development. prior to december 2000, mr. gordon was director of business development. mr. northfield has been the president of teleflex commercial since june 2005. from 2004 to 2005, mr. northfield was the president of teleflex automotive and the vice president of strategic development. mr. northfield held the position of vice president of strategic development from 2001 to 2004. prior to 2001, mr. northfield was vice president and general manager of north american operations of morse controls, a manufacturer of performance and control systems and aftermarket parts for marine and industrial applications, which was acquired by teleflex in 2001. mr. waaser has been the president of teleflex medical since october 2006. prior to joining teleflex, mr. waaser served as president and chief executive officer of hill-rom, inc., a manufacturer and provider of products and services for the healthcare industry, including patient room equipment, therapeutic wound and pulmonary care products, biomedical equipment services and communications systems, from 2001 to 2005. prior to 2001, mr. waaser served as senior vice president of agfa corporation, a producer of analog and digital imaging products for medical, industrial, graphics and consumer applications. 9 table of contents mr. suddarth has been the president of teleflex aerospace since july 2004. from 2003 to 2004, mr. suddarth was the president of techsonic industries inc., a former subsidiary of teleflex that manufactured underwater sonar and video viewing equipment which was divested in 2004. mr. suddarth was the chief operating officer of amf bowling products, inc., a bowling equipment manufacturer, from 2001 to 2003. prior to 2001, mr. suddarth was president of morse controls, a manufacturer of performance and control systems and aftermarket parts for marine and industrial applications, which was acquired by teleflex in 2001. our officers are elected annually by the board of directors at the first meeting of the board held after our annual stockholders meeting. each officer serves at the pleasure of the board until their respective successors have been elected. item 1a. risk factors we are subject to certain risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. these risks include, but are not limited to, the following: many of the industries in which we operate are cyclical, and, accordingly, our business is subject to changes in the economy. although we believe that the diversified nature of our business reduces the risk that all of our operations would experience simultaneous cyclical downturns, many of the businesses which we operate are subject to specific industry and general economic cycles, most acutely in the automotive, marine, aerospace and transportation industries. accordingly, any downturn in these or other markets in which we participate could materially adversely affect us. moreover, if we fail to respond promptly to changes in demand, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected in any given quarter. we are subject to risks associated with our non-u.s. operations. although no material concentration of our manufacturing operations exists in any single country, we have significant manufacturing operations outside the united states, including entities that are not wholly-owned and other alliances. as of december 31, 2006, approximately 45% of our total assets and 57% of our total revenues were attributable to products directly distributed from our operations outside the u.s. our international operations are subject to varying degrees of risk inherent in doing business outside the u.s., including: exchange controls and currency restrictions; trade protection measures and import or export requirements; subsidies or increased access to capital for firms who are currently or may emerge as competitors in countries in which we have operations; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; differing labor regulations; differing protection of intellectual property; and unsettled political conditions and possible terrorist attacks against american interests. these and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our business, results of operations and financial condition generally. our products are typically integrated into other manufacturers products. as a result, changes in demand for our customers products may adversely affect our revenues on short notice. many of our customers in the commercial and aerospace segments, including oems, integrate our products into products our customers sell. our customers also generally have no obligation to purchase any minimum quantity of product from us and may terminate our arrangement on short notice, typically 30 to 90 days, sometimes less. therefore, our reported backlog may not be realized as revenues. revenues could 10 table of contents materially decline if these customers experience a reduction in demand for their products or cancel a significant number of contracts and we cannot replace them with similar arrangements. customers in our medical segment depend on third party reimbursement. demand for some of our medical products is impacted by the reimbursement to our customers of patients medical expenses by government healthcare programs and private health insurers in the countries where we do business. internationally, medical reimbursement systems vary significantly, with medical centers in some countries having fixed budgets, regardless of the level of patient treatment. other countries require application for, and approval of, government or third party reimbursement. without both favorable coverage determinations by, and the financial support of, government and third party insurers, the market for some of our medical products could be adversely impacted. we cannot be sure that third party payors will maintain the current level of reimbursement to our customers for use of our existing products. adverse coverage determinations or any reduction in the amount of this reimbursement could harm our business. in addition, as a result of their purchasing power, these payors often seek discounts, price reductions or other incentives from medical products suppliers. our provision of such pricing concessions could negatively impact our revenues and product margins. uncertainties regarding future healthcare policy, legislation and regulations, as well as private market practices, could affect our ability to sell our products in acceptable quantities at profitable prices. foreign currency exchange rate, commodity price and interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. we expect revenue from products manufactured in, and sold into, non-u.s. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our net revenue. our consolidated financial statements reflect translation of items denominated in non-u.s. currencies to u.s. dollars, our reporting currency. when the u.s. dollar strengthens or weakens in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries where we sell or manufacture our products, such as the euro, our u.s. dollar-reported revenue and income will fluctuate. although we maintain a currency hedging program to reduce the effects of this fluctuation, changes in the relative values of currencies occur from time to time and may, in some instances, have a significant effect on our results of operations. many of our products have significant steel and plastic resin content. we also use quantities of other commodities, including copper and zinc. although we monitor our exposure to these commodity price increases as an integral part of our overall risk management program, volatility in the prices of these commodities could increase the costs of our products and services. we may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers and this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. our failure to successfully develop new products could adversely affect our results. the future success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability to design and manufacture new competitive products and to enhance existing products, including developing electronic technology to replace or improve upon mechanical technology. this product development may require substantial investment by us. there can be no assurance that unforeseen problems will not occur with respect to the development, performance or market acceptance of new technologies or products, such as the inability to: identify viable new products; obtain adequate intellectual property protection; 11 table of contents gain market acceptance of new products; or successfully obtain regulatory approvals. moreover, we may not otherwise be able to successfully develop and market new products. our failure to successfully develop and market new products could reduce our margins, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our technology is important to our success, and our failure to protect this technology could put us at a competitive disadvantage. because many of our products rely on proprietary technology, we believe that the development and protection of these intellectual property rights is important to the future success of our business. in addition to relying on our patents, trademarks and copyrights, we rely on confidentiality agreements with employees and other measures, to protect our know-how and trade secrets. despite our efforts to protect proprietary rights, unauthorized parties or competitors may copy or otherwise obtain and use these products or technology. the steps we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of this technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the u.s. moreover, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop the know-how and trade secrets or develop better technology than us or that current and former employees, contractors and other parties will not breach confidentiality agreements, misappropriate proprietary information and copy or otherwise obtain and use our information and proprietary technology without authorization or otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. our inability to protect our proprietary technology could result in competitive harm that could adversely affect our business. we are subject to a variety of litigation in the course of our business that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we are a party to various lawsuits and claims arising in the normal course of business. these lawsuits and claims include actions involving product liability, contracts, intellectual property, employment and environmental matters. the defense of these lawsuits may divert our management attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. in addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. while we do not believe that any litigation in which we are currently engaged would have such an adverse effect, the outcome of these legal proceedings may differ from our expectations because the outcomes of litigation, including regulatory matters, are often difficult to reliably predict. we may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability, warranty and recall claims that may be brought against us. we may be exposed to product liability and warranty claims in the event that our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected or the use of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury and/or property damage. accordingly, we could experience material warranty or product liability losses in the future and incur significant costs to defend these claims. in addition, if any of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective, we may be required to participate in a recall of that product if the defect or the alleged defect relates to safety. product liability, warranty and recall costs may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. much of our business is subject to extensive government regulation, and failure to comply with those regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. numerous national and local government agencies in a number of countries regulate our products and the products sold by our customers incorporating our products. the u.s. national highway traffic safety administration regulates the manufacture and sale of many of our automotive products. the u.s. food and drug 12 table of contents administration regulates the approval, manufacturing and sale and marketing of many of our medical products. the u.s. federal aviation administration and the european aviation safety agency regulate the manufacture and sale of some of our aerospace products and licenses the operation of our repair stations. failure to comply with applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines could lead to manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages or delays in product manufacturing. we are also subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things: the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; and the health and safety of our employees. these laws and government regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. moreover, we may be subject to additional environmental claims, which may include claims for personal injury or cleanup, in the future based on our past, present or future business activities, which could also adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. the costs associated with our restructuring programs may be greater than expected. we are engaged in restructuring programs, which require management to utilize significant estimates related to realizable values of assets made redundant or obsolete and expenses for severance and other employee separation costs, lease cancellation and other exit costs. actual results could differ materially from those estimated due to, among other things: unanticipated expenditures in connection with the effectuation of the programs; costs and length of time required to comply with legal requirements applicable to certain aspects of the programs; inability to realize anticipated cost savings; and unanticipated difficulties in connection with consolidation of manufacturing and administrative functions. our implementation of a new enterprise resource planning system in our medical segment may result in problems that could adversely affect us. we are in the process of implementing a third party enterprise resource planning, or erp, system across our medical segment in an effort to enhance operating efficiencies and provide more effective management of business operations. the first phase of the implementation, which relates to our medical segment operations in north america, is expected to be completed in the third quarter of 2007. in the event we encounter any problems in the implementation of the erp system, we could experience business disruptions in our medical segment, which could adversely affect customer relationships and divert the attention of our medical segment management team away from daily operations. in addition, any delays in the implementation of the erp system could cause us to incur additional unexpected costs. should we experience such difficulties, our business, cash flows and results of operations could be adversely affected. our acquisitions and strategic alliances may not meet revenue or profit expectations. as part of our strategy for growth, we have made and may continue to make acquisitions and divestitures and enter into strategic alliances. however, we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions or integrate acquisitions successfully. in this regard, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies and the diversion of management attention from other business concerns. although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in any particular transaction, there can be no assurance that we will properly ascertain all such risks. in addition, prior acquisitions have resulted, and future acquisitions could result, in the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness and other expenses. future acquisitions 13 table of contents may also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities. there can be no assurance that difficulties encountered with acquisitions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our workforce covered by collective bargaining and similar agreements could cause interruptions in our provision of services. approximately 17% of our manufacturing revenues are produced by operations for which a significant part of our workforce is covered by collective bargaining agreements and similar agreements in foreign jurisdictions. it is likely that a significant portion of our workforce will remain covered by collective bargaining and similar agreements for the foreseeable future. strikes or work stoppages could occur that would adversely impact our relationships with our customers and our ability to conduct our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk we are exposed to certain financial risks, specifically fluctuations in market interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and, to a lesser extent, commodity prices. we use derivative financial instruments to manage or reduce the impact of some of these risks. all instruments are entered into for other than trading purposes. we are also exposed to changes in the market traded price of our common stock as it influences the valuation of stock options and their effect on earnings. interest rate risk we are exposed to changes in interest rates as a result of our borrowing activities and our cash balances. interest rate swaps are used to manage a portion of our interest rate risk. the table below is an analysis of the amortization and related interest rates by year of maturity for our fixed and variable rate debt obligations. variable interest rates shown below are weighted average rates of the debt portfolio. for the swaps, notional amounts and related interest rates are shown by year of maturity. the fair value of the interest rate swaps as of december 31, 2006 was $0.3 million. year of maturity 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 thereafter total (dollars in thousands) fixed rate debt $ 6,515 $ 19,189 $ $ $ 150,000 $ 250,000 $ 425,704 average interest rate 7.1% 6.0% 5.2% 5.8% 5.6% variable rate debt $ 24,507 $ 47,299 $ 1,291 $ $ 19,591 $ $ 92,688 average interest rate 5.2% 4.6% 7.0% 5.6% 5.0% amount subject to swaps: variable to fixed $ 59,200 average rate to be received 4.8% average rate to be paid 5.6% a 1.0% increase or decrease in variable interest rates would adversely or positively impact our expected net earnings by approximately $0.2 million or ($0.2 million), respectively. foreign currency risk we are exposed to fluctuations in market values of transactions in currencies other than the functional currencies of certain subsidiaries. we have entered into forward contracts with several major financial institutions to hedge a portion of projected cash flows from these exposures. the fair value of the open forward contracts as of december 31, 2006 was $0.4 million. the following table presents our open forward currency 30 table of contents contracts as of december 31, 2006, which all mature in 2007. forward contract notional amounts presented below are expressed in the stated currencies (in thousands). forward currency contracts: (pay)/receive u.s. dollars (114,000 ) euros (4,472 ) singapore dollars 37,180 canadian dollars 81,234 malaysian ringgits 85,963 a movement of 10% in the value of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies would impact our expected net earnings by approximately $0.1 million.risk factors of this annual report on form 10-k. we expressly disclaim any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements, except as otherwise specifically stated by us. 2 part i item 1. business overview teleflex serves a wide variety of global customers by designing, manufacturing, and distributing specialty-engineered products. a diversified company distinguished by a significant presence in healthcare, teleflex is a leading global supplier of disposable and single use medical products for critical care and surgical applications. our medical products include devices used in critical care applications, surgical instruments, and cardiac assist devices for hospitals and healthcare providers, and instruments and devices delivered to medical device manufacturers. the company also serves the aerospace and commercial markets with engineered products and services designed to serve specialty or niche applications. our aerospace products include engine repair products and services and cargo-handling systems and equipment used in commercial aviation. our commercial products include marine driver controls, and engine assemblies and drive parts, power and fuel management systems and rigging products and services for commercial industries. for more than 60 years, we have provided specialty-engineered products that help our customers meet their business requirements. we have grown through an active program of development of new products, introduction of products into new geographic or end-markets and through acquisitions of companies with related market, technology or industry expertise. we serve a diverse customer base in over 140 countries through our own operations and through local direct sales and distribution networks. we have been focused on creating a portfolio of businesses that provides greater consistency of performance, improved profitability and sustainable growth. to accomplish this we have changed the composition of our portfolio of businesses to reduce cyclicality, improve margins and focus our resources on the development of our core businesses and carefully selected acquisitions. we are focused on achieving consistent and sustainable growth through our internal growth initiatives which include the development of new products, expansion of market share, moving existing products into new geographies, and through selected acquisitions which enhance or expedite our development initiatives and our ability to grow market share. the teleflex portfolio of businesses changed significantly in 2007 with acquisitions in all three business segments and significant divestitures in both commercial and aerospace. during 2007, in our medical segment, we completed the acquisition of arrow international, a medical products company with annual revenues of over $500 million, which significantly expanded the segment. we also completed the acquisition of a small orthopedic device manufacturer to expand our capability to serve medical device manufacturers. in our commercial segment, we acquired a rigging services business with annual revenues of approximately $25 million. at the end of the fiscal year, we completed the divestiture of our automotive and industrial businesses with 2007 revenues of over $860 million, significantly reducing the size of our commercial segment. in our aerospace segment, we acquired a cargo equipment business with annual revenues of approximately $55 million and divested a precision machined components business with approximately $130 million in annual revenues. our business segments we organize our business into three business segments medical, aerospace, and commercial. for 2007, the percentages of our consolidated net revenues represented by our segments were as follows: medical 54 percent, aerospace 23 percent and commercial 23 percent. as a result of the arrow acquisition, we anticipate that the medical segment will account for a larger percentage of revenue going forward. further detail and additional information regarding our segments and geographic areas is presented in note 15 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. 3 discontinued operations at the end of 2007, the company completed the sale of its business units that design and manufacture automotive and industrial driver controls, motion systems and fluid handling systems to kongsberg automotive holding asa for $560 million in cash. on june 29, 2007, we completed the sale of a precision-machined components business in our aerospace segment for approximately $134 million in cash. in 2006, we sold a small medical business. in 2005, we completed the sale of our automotive pedal systems business, sold a european medical product sterilization business, and completed the sale of a surface-engineering/specialty coatings business. these businesses met the criteria for reporting discontinued operations under statement of financial accounting standards ( sfas ) no. 144. accounting for the impairment or disposal of long-lived assets. in compliance with sfas no. 144, the company has reported results of operations, cash flows and gains (losses) on the disposition of these businesses as discontinued operations for all periods presented. see note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for further information regarding divestiture activity and accounting for discontinued operations. the following business segment and product category information reflects businesses in continuing operations as of december 31, 2007. business segment overview medical the businesses in our medical segment design, manufacture and distribute medical devices primarily used in critical care, surgical applications and cardiac care. additionally, the company designs, manufactures and supplies devices and instruments for medical device manufacturers. we are focused on providing disposable or single use medical products for critical care and surgery that enhance patient outcomes by providing products that are less invasive, reduce infection and improve patient safety. our products are largely sold and distributed to hospitals and healthcare providers and are most widely used in the acute care setting for a range of diagnostic and therapeutic procedures and in general and specialty surgical applications. major manufacturing operations are located in czech republic, germany, malaysia, mexico and the united states. approximately 50 percent of our segment revenues are derived from customers outside the united states. in the fourth quarter of 2007, we acquired arrow international, a leading global supplier of catheter-based medical technology products used for vascular access and cardiac care. this acquisition significantly expanded our disposable medical product offerings for critical care, enhanced our global footprint and added to our research and development capabilities. disposable medical products for critical care: this is the largest product category in the medical segment, representing 60 percent of segment revenues in 2007. disposable medical products are used in a wide range of critical care procedures for vascular access, respiratory care, anesthesia and airway management, treatment of urologic conditions, as well as other specialty procedures. disposable medical products for critical care are generally marketed under the brand names of arrow, r sch, hudsonrci, gibeck and sheridan. the large majority of sales for disposable medical products are made to the hospital/healthcare provider market, with a smaller percentage sold to alternate sites. vascular access products: our vascular access products are generally catheter-based products used in a variety of clinical procedures to facilitate multiple critical care therapies including the administration of intravenous medications and other therapies and the measurement of blood pressure and taking of blood samples through a single puncture site. 4 vascular access catheters and related devices consist principally of central venous access catheters such as the following: the arrow-howe tm multi-lumen catheter, a catheter equipped with three or four channels, or lumens; double-and single-lumen catheters, which are designed for use in a variety of clinical procedures; percutaneous sheath introducers, which are used as a means for inserting cardiovascular and other catheterization devices into the vascular system during critical care procedures. we also provide a range of peripherally inserted central catheters, which are soft, flexible catheters inserted in the upper arm and advanced into the superior vena cava and are accessed for various types of intravenous medications and therapies, and radial artery catheters, which are used for measuring arterial blood pressure and taking blood samples. our offerings include a pressure injectable peripherally inserted catheter which addresses the therapeutic need for a catheter that can withstand the higher pressures required by the injection of contrast media for ct scans. our vascular access products also include specialty catheters and related products used in a range of procedures and include percutaneous thrombolytic devices, which are designed for clearance of thrombosed hemodialysis grafts in chronic hemodialysis patients; and hemodialysis access catheters, including the cannon catheter, which is used to facilitate dialysis treatment. many of our vascular access catheters are treated with the arrowg+ard ,or arrowg+ard blue plus , antiseptic surface treatments to reduce the risk of catheter related infection. arrowg+ard blue plus, is a newer, longer lasting formulation of arrowg+ard and provides antimicrobial treatment of the interior lumens and hubs of each catheter. as part of our ongoing efforts to meet physicians needs for safety and management of risk of infection in the hospital setting, we sell a maximal barrier protection central venous access kit, which includes a full body drape, a catheter treated with the arrowg+ard antimicrobial technology, and other accessories. this kit addresses recent guidelines for reducing catheter-related bloodstream infections promulgated by the centers for disease control and the institute for healthcare improvement 100,000 lives initiative. related products include custom tubing sets used to connect central venous catheters to blood pressure monitoring devices and drug infusion systems, and the arrow inview portable ultrasound machine designed to support placement and administration of vascular access products. respiratory care: respiratory care products principally consist of devices used in oxygen therapy, aerosol therapy, and humidification for the mechanically ventilated patient. we offer an extensive range of aerosol therapy products, from the aquapak large volume nebulizer, the micromist and up-draft ii small volume nebulizer to the voldyne incentive spirometer. we are also a global provider of oxygen supplies, offering a broad range of products to safely and comfortably deliver oxygen therapy. these include nasal cannulas, oxygen supply tubing, oxygen masks and bubble humidifiers. the full range of these products are used in a variety of clinical settings including hospitals, long-term care facilities, rehabilitation centers, and patients homes to treat respiratory ailments such as chronic lung disease, pneumonia, cystic fibrosis, and asthma. our ventilator accessories humidify and deliver gases from a ventilator to the patient. over time, we have evolved our technology to meet changing clinical requirements and applications. our latest innovations in this product category include, the gibeck humid-flo and the conchatherm, which support the complex clinical needs of critical care patients. the gibeck humid-flo heat and moisture exchanger is designed to deliver medicated aerosol treatments to mechanically ventilated patients. the hme remains in-line during treatments, allowing treatments to be delivered without breaking the ventilator circuit and interrupting ventilation, a key strategy in the prevention of ventilator associated pneumonia (vap), a leading hospital-acquired infection. the conchtherm neptune is part of a complete system designed to heat and humidify respiratory gases delivered to patients. the system is used with ventilators, continuous flow systems, oxygen diluters and blenders, adjustable nebulizer adapters for aerosol therapy or nonflammable anesthesia gases to help maintain patient body temperature. 5 anesthesia and airway management: anesthesiologists depend on our highly recognized brands of hudson, sheridan and rusch products that include endotracheal tubes, laryngeal masks, airways, and face masks to deliver anesthetic agents and oxygen. to assist in the placement of endotracheal tubes, we provide a comprehensive and unique line of laryngoscope blades and handles, including standard halogen and fiber optic light sources. fiber optic light sources offer a high intensity, cool white light without generating the same level of heat that comes from standard halogen bulbs. regional anesthesia products include peripheral nerve blocks. nerve blocks provide pain relief after surgical procedures and help clinicians better manage each patient pain. we offer the first stimulating continuous nerve block catheter, the arrow stimucath, which confirms the positive placement of the catheter next to the nerve. the flex tip plus continuous epidural catheter features a soft, flexible tip that helps reduce the incidence of complications, such as transient paresthesia and inadvertent cannulation of blood vessels or the dura, while improving the clinician ability to thread the catheter into the epidural space. our arrow theracath epidural catheter, with high compression strength for direction-ability and enhanced radiopacity, was designed for pain management procedures where increased steer-ability is important. additional integral components create a range of standard and custom procedural kits. urology: our urology product line provides bladder management for patients in a range of clinical settings. these products consist principally of foley catheters and accessories, external catheters, intermittent catheters, suprapubic products, endourology products and products for urethral access. the largest percentage of urology products are sold to hospitals in european and asian markets with a smaller percentage of sales in north america. our urology products are also sold for use in home health and to alternate site providers. the rusch mmg closed system intermittent catheter is clinically proven to reduce urinary tract infections, a leading cause of death in spinal cord injury patients. designed using the bladder natural pressure, the rusch bellybag is a urine collection bag allowing patients with indwelling catheters freedom of movement, and personal discretion. surgical instruments and medical devices: products in this category represented 25 percent of medical segment revenues in 2007. our surgical instrument and medical device products include: ligation and closure products including appliers, clips, and sutures used in a variety of surgical procedures, hand-held instruments for general and specialty surgical procedures, access ports used in minimally invasive surgical procedures including robotic surgery, and fluid management products used for chest drainage. in addition, we provide instrument management services. we market surgical instruments and medical devices under the deknatel, pleur-evac, pilling, taut and weck brand names. in 2007, we introduced a number of new products in this category, including the pleur-evac mini sahara chest drainage product, which is a patented system for thoracic, cardiovascular, trauma and critical care. it features calibrated, high-suction control with a visual indicator, safe tip-over prevention, a patented patient air leak meter, complete positive and negative pressure controls, and a proprietary unit for pneumonectomy. in 2008, we plan to introduce the hem-o-lok small clip, a proprietary device with clinical advantages, which can seal vessels as small as 1-3 mm, and a new access port for minimally invasive surgery. devices for original equipment manufacturers: specialty devices sold to medical device manufacturers represented 13 percent of medical segment revenues in 2007. we provide design and prototyping, testing, fabrication and manufacturing services to medical device manufacturers. products in this category include custom-designed and manufactured specialty instruments for cardiovascular and orthopedic procedures, specialty sutures, microcatheters, and introducers. our brand names include tfx oem, beere, deknatel, kmedic, and smd. access, procedural and closure devices include custom extrusion products of ptfe and other fluropolymers, braid reinforced medical tubing, and catheter fabrication. we also supply custom suture and medical fibers. orthopedic surgical instrumentation includes precision machined orthopedic and spinal surgical instruments. 6 during 2007, we acquired a provider of fixation devices sold under the smd brand and used primarily for orthopedic procedures, expanding our oem product line. cardiac care devices: cardiac care products accounted for approximately 2 percent of revenues in fiscal 2007. these products include cardiac assist products, such as intra-aortic balloon (iab) pumps and catheters, which are used primarily to augment temporarily the pumping capability of the heart following cardiac surgery, serious heart attack or balloon angioplasty. our iab products include the autocat tm 2 wave iab pump and associated lightwave tm catheter system, which utilize fiber optic pressure-sensing catheter instrumentation and provides total automation of the pumping process for the broadest range of patients, including those with severely arrhythmic heartbeats. the following table sets forth revenues for 2007, 2006 and 2005 by significant product category for the medical segment. 2007 2006 2005 (dollars in thousands) medical products for critical care $ 625,485 $ 485,924 $ 469,152 surgical instruments and devices $ 258,258 $ 234,964 $ 231,415 devices for original equipment manufacturers $ 138,142 $ 137,788 $ 130,571 the following table sets forth the percentage of revenues by end market for 2007 for the medical segment. hospitals/healthcare providers 76 % medical device manufacturers 15 % home health 9 % markets for these products are influenced by a number of factors including demographics, utilization and reimbursement patterns in the worldwide healthcare markets. our products are sold through direct sales or distribution in 128 countries. the following table sets forth the percentage of revenues for 2007 derived from the major geographic areas we serve. 2007 north america 51 % europe, middle east and africa 37 % asia, latin america 12 % backlog: most of our medical products are sold to hospitals or healthcare providers on orders calling for delivery within a few days or weeks with a longer order time for products sold to medical device manufacturers. therefore, the backlog of such orders is not indicative of probable revenues in any future 12-month period. sales and marketing: medical products are sold directly to hospitals, healthcare providers, distributors and to original equipment manufacturers of medical devices through our own sales forces and through independent representatives and independent distributor networks. aerospace our aerospace segment businesses provide engine repair products and services for flight turbine engines and cargo handling systems and equipment for wide body and narrow body aircraft. engine repair products and services are provided for all major engine suppliers and we serve many of the world leading commercial airlines. our wide body cargo handling systems are installed on a range of aircraft platforms and our customers include many of the world leading airlines. sales to customers in commercial aviation markets represent more than 95 percent of revenues in this segment. markets for these products are generally influenced by spending patterns in the commercial aviation 7 markets, cargo market trends, flight hours, and age and type of engines in use. major locations for manufacturing and service are located in england, germany, norway, singapore and the united states. engine repair products and services: the largest single product category in the aerospace segment, repair products and services represented 56 percent of segment revenues in 2007. this category includes engine repair technologies and services primarily for critical components of flight turbines, including fan blades and airfoils. we utilize advanced reprofiling and adaptive-machining techniques to improve efficiency of aircraft engine performance and reduce turnaround time for maintenance and repairs. our repair products and services business is conducted through a consolidated, fifty-one percent owned venture with ge aircraft engines, called airfoil technologies international (ati). in 2007, ati signed a joint venture and management agreement with snecma services to expand the range of repair services provided to our customers. cargo-handling systems and equipment: products in this category represented 44 percent of aerospace segment revenues in 2007. our cargo-handling systems include on-board cargo-handling systems for wide-body aircraft, cargo-loading systems for narrow body aircraft, actuators, cargo containers, aftermarket spare parts and repair services. marketed under the telair international brand name, our wide-body cargo-handling systems are sold to aircraft original equipment manufacturers or to airlines and air freight carriers as buyer furnished equipment for original installations or as retrofits for existing equipment. cargo-handling systems require a high degree of engineering sophistication and are often custom-designed. in addition to the design and manufacture of cargo systems, we provide customers with aftermarket spare parts and repair services for their telair systems. in addition, we design, manufacture and repair cargo containers and we also manufacture and repair components for our systems and other related aircraft controls, including canopy and door actuators, cargo winches and flight controls. in november 2007, we acquired nordisk aviation products expanding our customer base and global manufacturing and service capacity for cargo equipment. cargo containers are marketed under nordisk aviation products and telair names to commercial airlines and to freight companies. the following table sets forth revenues for 2007, 2006 and 2005 by product category for the aerospace segment. 2007 2006 2005 (dollars in thousands) engine repair products and services $ 253,975 $ 250,519 $ 241,532 cargo-handling systems and equipment $ 197,813 $ 154,853 $ 125,298 the following table sets forth the percentage of revenues by end market for 2007 for the aerospace segment. commercial aviation 97 % military, industrial and other 3 % backlog: as of december 31, 2007, our backlog of firm orders for our aerospace segment was $141 million, of which we expect approximately 83 percent to be filled in 2008. our backlog for our aerospace segment on december 31, 2006 was $173 million. sales and marketing: generally, products sold to the aerospace market are sold through our own field representatives. commercial our commercial segment businesses principally design, manufacture and distribute driver controls and engine and drive assemblies for the marine market, power and fuel systems for truck, rail, automotive and industrial vehicles and rigging products and services. our products are used in a range of markets including: 8 recreational marine, heavy truck, bus, industrial vehicles, rail, oil and gas, marine transportation and industrial. major manufacturing operations are located in canada, europe, singapore, and the united states. marine driver controls and engine assemblies and drive parts: this is the largest single product category in the commercial segment, representing 54 percent of commercial segment revenues in 2007. products in this category include: control cables, mechanical and hydraulic steering, throttle controls, instrumentation and engine drive parts. we are a leading global provider of both mechanical and hydraulic steering systems for recreational boats. we are also a leading distributor of engine assemblies and drive parts. our marine products are sold to original equipment manufacturers (oems) and to the aftermarket through distributors, dealers and retail outlets. our major product brands include teleflex marine, seastar, baystar, and sierra. power and fuel systems: products in this category represented 27 percent of commercial segment revenues in 2007. our major products in this category include auxiliary power units used for power in heavy-duty trucks and locomotives, climate control systems used in trucks, buses and other industrial vehicles, and components and systems for the use of alternative fuels in industrial vehicles and passenger cars. these products generally address the need for greater fuel efficiency, reduced emissions, and access to mobile power. our major product brands in this category are comfortpro, proheat, and teleflex gfi. rigging products and services: products in this category represented 19 percent of commercial segment revenues in 2007. products include heavy-duty cables, hoisting and rigging equipment used in oil drilling, marine transportation and other industrial markets. we also help our customers meet new legislation and safety regulations for moorings. teleflex commercial enhanced our offerings this year when we acquired southern wire corporation, a prominent wholesale provider of rigging services. the following table sets forth revenues for 2007, 2006 and 2005 by product category for the commercial segment. 2007 2006 2005 (dollars in thousands) marine driver controls and engine and drive parts $ 240,092 $ 229,250 $ 225,540 power and fuel systems $ 119,026 $ 129,116 $ 90,127 rigging products and services $ 82,077 $ 68,395 $ 48,237 the following table sets forth the percentage of revenues by end market for 2007 for the commercial segment. recreational marine 48 % truck and rail 15 % automotive and industrial vehicle 18 % other industrial 19 % backlog: standard commercial segment products are typically shipped between a few days and three months after receipt of order. therefore, the backlog of such orders is not indicative of probable revenues in any future 12-month period. sales and marketing: the majority of our commercial segment products are sold through a direct sales force of field representatives and technical specialists. marine driver controls and engine and drive parts are sold directly to boat builders and engine manufacturers as well as through distributors, dealers and retail outlets to reach recreational boaters. auxiliary power units are primarily sold in the north american truck market through an agreement with a distributor and to the rail market using a direct sales force. fuel systems and components include custom applications sold directly to industrial equipment manufacturers and to the automotive aftermarket principally in europe. rigging products and services includes both a retail business and a wholesale business, both of which sell through a direct sales force. 9 government regulation government agencies in a number of countries regulate our products and the products sold by our customers utilizing our products. the u.s. food and drug administration and government agencies in other countries regulate the approval, manufacturing, and sale and marketing of many of our healthcare products. the u.s. federal aviation administration and the european aviation safety agency regulate the manufacture and sale of some of our aerospace products and license the operation of our repair stations. for more information, see risk factors . competition given the range and diversity of our products and markets, no one competitor offers competitive products for all the markets and customers that we serve. in general, all of our segments and product lines face significant competition from competitors of varying sizes, although the number of competitors in each market tends to be limited. we believe that our competitive position depends on the technical competence and creative ability of our engineering personnel, the know-how and skill of our manufacturing personnel, and the strength and scope of our sales, service and distribution networks. patents and trademarks we own a portfolio of patents, patents pending and trademarks. we also license various patents and trademarks. patents for individual products extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. trademark rights may potentially extend for longer periods of time and are dependent upon national laws and use of the marks. all capitalized product names throughout this document are trademarks owned by, or licensed to, us or our subsidiaries. although these have been of value and are expected to continue to be of value in the future, we do not consider any single patent or trademark, except for the teleflex brand and the arrow brand, to be essential to the operation of our business. suppliers and materials materials used in the manufacture of our products are purchased from a large number of suppliers in diverse geographic locations. we are not dependent on any single supplier for a substantial amount of the materials used or components supplied for our overall operations. most of the materials and components we use are available from multiple sources, and where practical, we attempt to identify alternative suppliers. volatility in commodity markets, particularly steel and plastic resins, can have a significant impact on the cost of producing certain of our products. we cannot be assured of successfully passing these cost increases through to all of our customers, particularly original equipment manufacturers (oems). seasonality portions of our revenues, particularly in the commercial and medical segments, are subject to seasonal fluctuations. revenues in the marine aftermarket generally increase in the second quarter as boat owners prepare their watercraft for the upcoming season. incidence of flu and other disease patterns as well as the frequency of elective medical procedures affect revenues related to disposable medical products. employees we employed approximately 14,000 full-time and temporary employees at december 31, 2007. of these employees, approximately 4,400 were employed in the united states and 9,600 in countries outside of the united states. less than 8 percent of our employees in the united states were covered by union contracts. we have government-mandated collective-bargaining arrangements or union contracts that cover employees in other countries. we believe we have good relationships with our employees. 10 investor information we are subject to the informational requirements of the securities exchange act of 1934. therefore, we file reports, proxy statements and other information with the securities and exchange commission (sec). such reports, proxy and information statements, and other information may be obtained by visiting the public reference room of the sec at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549 or by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. in addition, the sec maintains an internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. you can access financial and other information in the investors section of our website. the address is www.teleflex.com . we make available through our website, free of charge, copies of our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed or furnished under section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the sec. the information on our website is not part of this annual report on form 10-k. the reference to our website address is intended to be an inactive textual reference only. we are a delaware corporation organized in 1943. our executive offices are located at 155 south limerick road, limerick, pa 19468. our telephone number is (610) 948-5100. executive officers the names and ages of all of our executive officers as of february 26, 2008 and the positions and offices held by each such officer are as follows: name age positions and offices with company jeffrey p. black 48 chairman, chief executive officer and director kevin k. gordon 45 executive vice president and chief financial officer laurence g. miller 53 senior vice president, general counsel and secretary vince northfield 44 president commercial r. ernest waaser 51 president medical john suddarth 48 president aerospace mr. black has been chairman since may 2006, chief executive officer since may 2002 and president since december 2000. he has been a director since november 2002. mr. black was president of the teleflex industrial group from july 2000 to december 2000 and president of teleflex fluid systems from january 1999 to july 2000. mr. gordon has been executive vice president and chief financial officer since march 2007. from june 2005 until march 2007, he was senior vice president corporate development. from december 2000 to june 2005, mr. gordon was vice president corporate development. prior to december 2000, mr. gordon was director of business development. mr. miller has been senior vice president, general counsel and secretary since november 2004, following a 20-year career with aramark corporation, a diversified management services company providing food, refreshment, facility and other support services for a variety of organizations. from november 2001 until november 2004, he was senior vice president and associate general counsel for the food support services division of aramark. from june 1994 until november 2001, mr. miller was senior vice president and general counsel for aramark uniform services. mr. northfield has been the president of teleflex commercial since june 2005. from 2004 to 2005, mr. northfield was the president of teleflex automotive and the vice president of strategic development. 11 mr. northfield held the position of vice president of strategic development from 2001 to 2004. prior to 2001, mr. northfield was vice president and general manager of north american operations of morse controls, a manufacturer of performance and control systems and aftermarket parts for marine and industrial applications, which was acquired by teleflex in 2001. mr. waaser has been the president of teleflex medical since october 2006. prior to joining teleflex, mr. waaser served as president and chief executive officer of hill-rom, inc., a manufacturer and provider of products and services for the healthcare industry, including patient room equipment, therapeutic wound and pulmonary care products, biomedical equipment services and communications systems, from 2001 to 2005. prior to 2001, mr. waaser served as senior vice president of agfa corporation, a producer of analog and digital imaging products for medical, industrial, graphics and consumer applications. mr. suddarth has been the president of teleflex aerospace since july 2004. from 2003 to 2004, mr. suddarth was the president of techsonic industries inc., a former subsidiary of teleflex that manufactured underwater sonar and video viewing equipment which was divested in 2004. mr. suddarth was the chief operating officer of amf bowling products, inc., a bowling equipment manufacturer, from 2001 to 2003. prior to 2001, mr. suddarth was president of morse controls, a manufacturer of performance and control systems and aftermarket parts for marine and industrial applications, which was acquired by teleflex in 2001. our officers are elected annually by the board of directors. each officer serves at the pleasure of the board until their respective successors have been elected. item 1a. risk factors we are subject to certain risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. these risks include, but are not limited to the following: we may not be able to successfully complete the integration of arrow or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the arrow acquisition. the integration of arrow into our medical segment involves a number of risks and presents financial, managerial and operational challenges. in particular, we may have difficulty, and may incur unanticipated expenses related to: consolidating manufacturing and administrative functions; complying with legal requirements applicable to certain aspects of the integration; retaining key employees; consolidating infrastructures and systems; coordinating sales and marketing functions; preserving our and arrow customer, supplier and other important relationships; and minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns. the success of the arrow acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings from successfully combining the businesses of arrow and of teleflex medical in the time frame we anticipate. if we are not able to achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits, synergies and cost savings of the business combination may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. failure to successfully complete the integration of arrow or achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of arrow may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our inability to resolve issues related to the fda corporate warning letter issued to arrow could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 on october 11, 2007, arrow received a corporate warning letter from the fda, which expresses concerns with arrow quality systems, including complaint handling, corrective and preventive action, process and design validation and inspection and training procedures. while we are working with the fda to resolve these issues, this work has required and will continue to require the dedication of significant internal and external resources. there can be no assurances regarding the length of time or cost it will take us to resolve these issues to the satisfaction of the fda. in addition, if our remedial actions are not satisfactory to the fda, we may have to devote additional financial and human resources to our efforts, and the fda may take further regulatory actions against us. these actions may include seizing our product inventory, obtaining a court injunction against further marketing of our products, assessing civil monetary penalties or imposing a consent decree on us, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have substantial debt obligations that could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. we incurred significant indebtedness to fund a portion of the consideration for our acquisition of arrow. as of december 31, 2007, our outstanding indebtedness was approximately $1.7 billion. we will be required to use a significant portion of our operating cash flow to reduce our indebtedness over the next few years, resulting in a reduction of the cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments. our indebtedness may also subject us to greater vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and increase our vulnerability to increases in interest rates because a portion of our indebtedness bears interest at floating rates. our senior credit facility and agreements with the holders of our senior notes, which we refer to as our senior debt facilities, impose certain operating and financial covenants that limit our ability to, among other things: incur debt; create liens; consolidate, merge or dispose of assets; make investments; engage in acquisitions pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of our capital stock; and enter into derivative agreements to manage exposure to changes in interest rates. in addition, the terms of our senior credit facilities require us to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios. our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and in the event of a significant deterioration of our economic performance, we cannot assure you that we will be able to satisfy those ratios. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our senior credit facilities. if we fail to maintain compliance with these covenants and cannot obtain a waiver from the lenders under the senior credit facilities, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the senior secured credit facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit under such facilities. if the lenders under the senior credit facilities accelerate the repayment of borrowings and we are not able to obtain financing to satisfy this obligation, we likely would have to liquidate significant assets which nevertheless may not be sufficient to repay our borrowings. we are subject to risks associated with our non-u.s. operations. although no material concentration of our manufacturing operations exists in any single country, we have significant manufacturing operations outside the united states, including operations conducted through entities that are not wholly-owned and other alliances. as of, and for the year ended, december 31, 2007, approximately 49% of our total fixed assets and 56% of our total revenues were attributable to products directly 13 distributed from our operations outside the u.s. our international operations are subject to varying degrees of risk inherent in doing business outside the u.s., including: exchange controls and currency restrictions; trade protection measures; import or export requirements; subsidies or increased access to capital for firms who are currently or may emerge as competitors in countries in which we have operations; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; differing labor regulations; differing protection of intellectual property; unsettled political conditions and possible terrorist attacks against american interests; and regional and national tenders (which may be exclusive). these and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our business, results of operations and financial condition generally. customers in our medical segment depend on third party reimbursement and the failure of healthcare programs to provide reimbursement or the reduction in levels of reimbursement for our medical products could adversely affect our medical segment. demand for some of our medical products is impacted by the reimbursement to our customers of patients medical expenses by government healthcare programs and private health insurers in the countries where we do business. internationally, medical reimbursement systems vary significantly, with medical centers in some countries having fixed budgets, regardless of the level of patient treatment. other countries require application for, and approval of, government or third party reimbursement. without both favorable coverage determinations by, and the financial support of, government and third party insurers, the market for some of our medical products could be adversely impacted. we cannot be sure that third party payors will maintain the current level of reimbursement to our customers for use of our existing products. adverse coverage determinations or any reduction in the amount of this reimbursement could harm our business. in addition, as a result of their purchasing power, these payors often seek discounts, price reductions or other incentives from medical products suppliers. our provision of such pricing concessions could negatively impact our revenues and product margins. uncertainties regarding future healthcare policy, legislation and regulations, as well as private market practices, could affect our ability to sell our products in acceptable quantities at profitable prices. foreign currency exchange rate, commodity price and interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. we expect revenue from products manufactured in, and sold into, non-u.s. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our net revenue. our consolidated financial statements reflect translation of financial statements denominated in non-u.s. currencies to u.s. dollars, our reporting currency. when the u.s. dollar strengthens or weakens in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries where we sell or manufacture our products, such as the euro, our u.s. dollar-reported revenue and income will fluctuate. although we have entered into forward contracts with several major financial institutions to hedge a portion of projected cash flows in order to reduce the effects of this fluctuation, changes in the relative values of currencies may, in some instances, have a significant effect on our results of operations. 14 many of our products have significant steel and plastic resin content. we also use quantities of other commodities, including copper and zinc. although we monitor our exposure to these commodity price increases as an integral part of our overall risk management program, volatility in the prices of these commodities could increase the costs of our products and services. we may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers and this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. our failure to successfully develop new products could adversely affect our results. the future success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability to design and manufacture new competitive products and to enhance existing products, particularly in the medical device industry, which is characterized by rapid product development and technological advances. this product development may require substantial investment by us. there can be no assurance that unforeseen problems will not occur with respect to the development, performance or market acceptance of new technologies or products, such as the inability to: identify viable new products; obtain adequate intellectual property protection; gain market acceptance of new products; or successfully obtain regulatory approvals. moreover, we may not otherwise be able to successfully develop and market new products. our failure to successfully develop and market new products could reduce our margins, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our technology is important to our success, and our failure to protect this technology could put us at a competitive disadvantage. because many of our products rely on proprietary technology, we believe that the development and protection of these intellectual property rights is important, though not essential, to the future success of our business. in addition to relying on our patents, trademarks and copyrights, we rely on confidentiality agreements with employees and other measures to protect our know-how and trade secrets. despite our efforts to protect proprietary rights, unauthorized parties or competitors may copy or otherwise obtain and use these products or technology. the steps we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of this technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the u.s. moreover, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop the know-how and trade secrets or develop better technology than ours or that current and former employees, contractors and other parties will not breach confidentiality agreements, misappropriate proprietary information and copy or otherwise obtain and use our information and proprietary technology without authorization or otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. our inability to protect our proprietary technology could result in competitive harm that could adversely affect our business. we depend upon relationships with physicians and other health care professionals. the research and development of some of our products is dependent on our maintaining strong working relationships with physicians and other health care professionals. we rely on these professionals to provide us with considerable knowledge and experience regarding our products and the development of our products. physicians assist us as researchers, product consultants, inventors and as public speakers. if we fail to maintain our working relationships with physicians and receive the benefits of their knowledge, advice and input, our products may not be developed and marketed in line with the needs and expectations of the professionals who use and support our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 in the course of our business, we are subject to a variety of litigation that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we are a party to various lawsuits and claims arising in the normal course of business. these lawsuits and claims include actions involving product liability, contracts, intellectual property, employment and environmental matters. the defense of these lawsuits may divert our management attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. in addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. while we do not believe that any litigation in which we are currently engaged would have such an adverse effect, the outcome of these legal proceedings may differ from our expectations because the outcomes of litigation, including regulatory matters, are often difficult to reliably predict and we cannot assure that the outcome of pending or future litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations we may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability, warranty and recall claims that may be brought against us. although the company carries product liability insurance we may be exposed to product liability and warranty claims in the event that our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected or the use of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury and/or property damage. accordingly, we could experience material warranty or product liability losses in the future and incur significant costs to defend these claims. in addition, if any of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective, we may be required to participate in a recall of that product if the defect or the alleged defect relates to safety. product liability, warranty and recall costs may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. much of our business is subject to extensive government regulation, and our failure to comply with those regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and we may incur significant expenses to comply with these regulations. numerous national and local government agencies in a number of countries regulate our products. the u.s. food and drug administration ( fda ) and government agencies in other countries regulate the approval, manufacturing and sale and marketing of many of our medical products. the u.s. federal aviation administration and the european aviation safety agency regulate the manufacture and sale of some of our aerospace products and licenses the operation of our repair stations. failure to comply with applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines could lead to manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages, delays in product manufacturing, product seizures, recalls, operating restrictions, withdrawal of required licenses, prohibitions against exporting of products to countries outside the united states, importing products from manufacturing facilities outside the u.s., and civil and criminal penalties, including exclusion under medicaid or medicare, any one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the fda and certain foreign governmental authorities, can be costly and time consuming, and approvals might not be granted for future products on a timely basis, if at all, resulting in delayed realization of product revenues or in substantial additional costs, which could have material adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations. our medical segment facilities are subject to periodic inspection by the fda and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities, which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to certain regulations, including testing, quality control and documentation procedures. we are also subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare pricing and fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback and false claims laws. violations of these laws may be punishable by criminal or civil 16 sanctions, including substantial fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs. in addition, we are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things: the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; and the health and safety of our employees. these laws and government regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or will not adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. moreover, we may be subject to additional environmental claims, which may include claims for personal injury or cleanup, in the future based on our past, present or future business activities, which could also adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our acquisitions and strategic alliances may not meet revenue or profit expectations. as part of our strategy for growth, we have made and may continue to make acquisitions and divestitures and enter into strategic alliances such as joint ventures and joint development agreements. however, we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions or integrate acquisitions successfully, and our strategic alliances may not prove to be successful. in this regard, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies and the diversion of management attention from other business concerns. although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in any particular transaction, there can be no assurance that we will properly ascertain all such risks. in addition, prior acquisitions have resulted, and future acquisitions could result, in the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness and other expenses. future acquisitions may also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities. there can be no assurance that difficulties encountered with acquisitions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our workforce covered by collective bargaining and similar agreements could cause interruptions in our provision of services. approximately 6% of our manufacturing revenues are produced by operations for which a significant part of our workforce is covered by collective bargaining agreements and similar agreements in foreign jurisdictions. it is likely that a portion of our workforce will remain covered by collective bargaining and similar agreements for the foreseeable future. strikes or work stoppages could occur that would adversely impact our relationships with our customers and our ability to conduct our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk we are exposed to certain financial risks, specifically fluctuations in market interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and, to a lesser extent, commodity prices. we use derivative financial instruments to manage or reduce the impact of some of these risks. all instruments are entered into for other than trading purposes. we are also exposed to changes in the market traded price of our common stock as it influences the valuation of stock options and their effect on earnings. interest rate risk we are exposed to changes in interest rates as a result of our borrowing activities and our cash balances. interest rate swaps are used to manage a portion of our interest rate risk. the table below is an analysis of the amortization and related interest rates by year of maturity for our fixed and variable rate debt obligations. variable interest rates shown below are weighted average rates of the debt portfolio based on december 31, 39 2007 rates. for the swaps, notional amounts and related interest rates are shown by year of maturity. the fair value, net of tax of the interest rate swap as of december 31, 2007 was a loss of $8.9 million. year of maturity 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 thereafter total (dollars in thousands) fixed rate debt $ 16,980 $ $ $ 145,000 $ 180,000 $ 226,600 $ 568,580 average interest rate 5.8% 0.0% 0.0% 7.7% 7.7% 8.2% 7.8% variable rate debt $ 168,149 $ 103,490 $ 102,180 $ 102,180 $ 639,680 $ 1,115,679 average interest rate 6.4% 6.4% 6.4% 6.4% 6.8% 6.6% amount subject to swaps: variable to fixed (1) $ 600,000 average rate to be received 3 months usd libor average rate to be paid 4.75% (1) the notional value of the interest rate swap is $600 million at inception and amortizes down to a notional value of $350 million at maturity in 2012. a 1.0% change in variable interest rates would adversely or positively impact our expected net earnings by approximately $3.2 million, for the period ended december 31, 2008. foreign currency risk we are exposed to fluctuations in market values of transactions in currencies other than the functional currencies of certain subsidiaries. we have entered into forward contracts with several major financial institutions to hedge a portion of projected cash flows from these exposures. these are all contracts to buy or sell a foreign currency against the u.s. dollar. the fair value of the open forward contracts as of december 31, 2007 was less than $0.1 million. the following table presents our open forward currency contracts as of december 31, 2007, which mature in 2008 and 2009. forward contract notional amounts presented below are expressed in the stated currencies (in thousands). the total notional amount for all contracts translates to approximately $98 million. forward currency contracts: buy/(sell) japanese yen (394,056 ) euros (29,032 ) mexican peso 80,325 malaysian ringgits 59,902 singapore dollars 34,294 british pounds 1,823 a movement of 10% in the value of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies would impact our expected net earnings by approximately $2.5 million.risk factors of this annual report on form 10-k. we expressly disclaim any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements, except as otherwise specifically stated by us. 2 table of contents part i item 1. business overview teleflex incorporated (referred to herein as we, us, our, teleflex and the company ) is a diversified company specializing in the design, manufacture and distribution of quality engineered products and services. the company serves a wide range of customers in segments of the medical, aerospace and commercial industries. the company products include: medical devices used in critical care and anesthesia applications, surgical instruments and devices, cardiac assist devices for hospitals and healthcare providers and instruments and devices delivered to medical device manufacturers; aerospace engine repair products and services and cargo-handling systems and equipment used in commercial aircraft; and marine driver controls, engine assemblies and drive parts, power and fuel management systems and rigging products and services for commercial industries. for more than 65 years, we have provided specialty-engineered products that help our customers meet their business requirements. we have grown through an active program of development of new products, introduction of products into new geographic or end-markets and through acquisitions of companies with related market, technology or industry expertise. we serve a diverse customer base in over 150 countries through our own operations and through local direct sales and distribution networks. we are focused on achieving consistent and sustainable growth through our internal growth initiatives which include the development of new products, expansion of market share, moving existing products into new geographies, and through selected acquisitions which enhance or expedite our development initiatives and our ability to grow market share. we continually evaluate the composition of the portfolio of our businesses to ensure alignment with our overall objectives. we strive to maintain a portfolio of businesses that provide consistency of performance, improved profitability and sustainable growth. to this end, in 2007 we significantly changed the composition of our portfolio through acquisitions in all three business segments and divestitures in both our commercial and aerospace segments. specifically, in our medical segment, we completed the acquisition of arrow international, a medical products company with annual net revenues of over $500 million, which significantly expanded the segment. we also completed the acquisition of a small orthopedic device manufacturer to expand our capability to serve medical device manufacturers. in our commercial segment, we acquired a rigging services business with annual net revenues of approximately $25 million. at the end of 2007, we completed the divestiture of our automotive and industrial businesses ( gms ) with 2007 net revenues of over $860 million, significantly reducing the size of our commercial segment. in our aerospace segment, we acquired a cargo equipment business with annual net revenues of approximately $55 million and divested a precision machined components business with approximately $130 million in annual net revenues. these measures were taken to improve margins, reduce cyclicality and focus our resources on the development of our core businesses. we continually evaluate the composition of the portfolio of our businesses to ensure alignment with our overall objectives. our business segments we organize our business into three business segments medical, aerospace and commercial. for 2008, the percentages of our consolidated net revenues represented by our segments were as follows: medical 62 percent, aerospace 21 percent and commercial 17 percent. further detail and additional information regarding our segments and geographic areas is presented in note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. 3 table of contents discontinued operations at the end of 2007, we completed the sale of our business units that design and manufacture automotive and industrial driver controls, motion systems and fluid handling systems to kongsberg automotive holding asa for $560 million in cash. on june 29, 2007, we completed the sale of a precision-machined components business in our aerospace segment for approximately $134 million in cash and in 2006, we sold a small medical business. these businesses met the criteria for reporting discontinued operations under statement of financial accounting standards ( sfas ) no. 144. accounting for the impairment or disposal of long-lived assets. in compliance with sfas no. 144, the company has reported results of operations, cash flows and gains (losses) on the disposition of these businesses as discontinued operations for all periods presented. see note 17 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for further information regarding divestiture activity and accounting for discontinued operations. the following business segment and product category information reflects businesses in continuing operations as of december 31, 2008. business segment overview medical the businesses in our medical segment design, manufacture and distribute medical products primarily used in critical care, surgical applications and cardiac care. additionally, we design, manufacture and supply devices and instruments for medical device manufacturers. we are focused on providing disposable or single use medical products for critical care and surgery that enhance patient outcomes by providing products that are less invasive, reduce infection and improve patient safety. our products are largely sold and distributed to hospitals and healthcare providers and are most widely used in the acute care setting for a range of diagnostic and therapeutic procedures and in general and specialty surgical applications. major manufacturing operations are located in czech republic, germany, malaysia, mexico and the united states. approximately 50 percent of our segment net revenues are derived from customers outside the united states. in the fourth quarter of 2007, we acquired arrow international, a leading global supplier of catheter-based medical technology products used for vascular access and cardiac care. this acquisition significantly expanded our disposable medical product offerings for critical care, enhanced our global footprint and added to our research and development capabilities. disposable medical products for critical care: this is the largest product category in the medical segment, representing 64 percent of segment net revenues in 2008. disposable medical products are used in a wide range of critical care procedures for vascular access, respiratory care, anesthesia and airway management, treatment of urologic conditions, as well as other specialty procedures. disposable medical products for critical care are generally marketed under the brand names of arrow, r sch, hudsonrci, gibeck and sheridan. the large majority of sales for disposable medical products are made to the hospital/healthcare provider market, with a smaller percentage sold to alternate sites. vascular access products: our vascular access products are generally catheter-based products used in a variety of clinical procedures to facilitate multiple critical care therapies including the administration of intravenous medications, other therapies, and the measurement of blood pressure and taking of blood samples through a single puncture site. vascular access catheters and related devices consist principally of central venous access catheters ( cvc ) such as the following: the arrow-howe tm multi-lumen catheter, a catheter equipped with three or four channels, or lumens; double-and single-lumen catheters, which are designed for use in a variety of clinical 4 table of contents procedures; the arrow pressure injectable cvc, which gives clinicians who perform ct scans the option of using an indwelling pressure injectable arrow cvc without having to insert another catheter for their scan; and percutaneous sheath introducers, which are used as a means for inserting cardiovascular and other catheterization devices into the vascular system during critical care procedures. we also provide a range of peripherally inserted central catheters, which are soft, flexible catheters inserted in the upper arm and advanced into the superior vena cava and are accessed for various types of intravenous medications and therapies, and radial artery catheters, which are used for measuring arterial blood pressure and taking blood samples. our offerings include a pressure injectable peripherally inserted catheter which addresses the therapeutic need for a catheter that can withstand the higher pressures required by the injection of contrast media for ct scans. our vascular access products also include specialty catheters and related products used in a range of other procedures and include percutaneous thrombolytic devices, which are designed for clearance of thrombosed hemodialysis grafts in chronic hemodialysis patients; and hemodialysis access catheters, including the cannon catheter, which is used to facilitate dialysis treatment. many of our vascular access catheters are treated with the arrowg+ard , or arrowg+ard blue plus , antiseptic surface treatments to reduce the risk of catheter related infection. arrowg+ard blue plus, is a newer, longer lasting formulation of arrowg+ard and provides antimicrobial treatment of the interior lumens and hubs of each catheter. as part of our ongoing efforts to meet physicians needs for safety and management of risk of infection in the hospital setting, we sell a maximal barrier precautions central venous access kit, which includes a full body drape, a catheter treated with the arrowg+ard antimicrobial technology, and other accessories. the features of this kit were created to address recent guidelines for reducing catheter-related bloodstream infections that were set by a variety of health regulatory agencies, such as the centers for disease control and prevention and the joint commission on the accreditation of healthcare organizations, among others. related products include custom tubing sets used to connect central venous catheters to blood pressure monitoring devices and drug infusion systems, and the arrow inview portable ultrasound machine designed to support placement and administration of vascular access products. respiratory care: respiratory care products principally consist of devices used in aerosol and medication delivery, oxygen therapy and ventilation management. we offer an extensive range of aerosol therapy products, including the micromist nebulizer, the neb-u-mask system and the opti-neb pro tm compressor. we are also a global provider of oxygen supplies, offering a broad range of products to deliver oxygen therapy safely and comfortably. these include masks, cannulas, tubing and humidifiers. the full range of these products are used in a variety of clinical settings including hospitals, long-term care facilities, rehabilitation centers and patients homes to treat respiratory ailments such as chronic lung disease, pneumonia, cystic fibrosis and asthma. our ventilation management solutions promote patient safety and maximize clinician efficiency. these products include ventilator circuits with an extended life to support clinical practice guidelines, high efficiency particulate air (hepa) filters with 99.9999% efficiency against the transmission of bacteria and viruses, heat and moisture exchangers that reduce circuit manipulation and cross-contamination risk, and heated humidifiers that promote patient compliance to non-invasive respiratory strategies, like non-invasive ventilation ( niv ) and high flow oxygen therapy. the conchatherm neptune is a heated humidification solution. it is designed to allow the caregiver to customize patient treatment to meet specific clinical goals. this results in advanced patient outcomes without sacrificing clinician efficiency. anesthesia and airway management: anesthesiologists depend on our highly recognized brands of hudson, sheridan and r sch products that include endotracheal tubes, laryngeal masks, airways and face 5 table of contents masks to deliver anesthetic agents and oxygen. to assist in the placement of endotracheal tubes, we provide a comprehensive and unique line of laryngoscope blades and handles, including standard halogen and fiber optic light sources. fiber optic light sources offer a high intensity, cool white light without generating the same level of heat that comes from standard halogen bulbs. regional anesthesia products include epidural and peripheral nerve block catheters. nerve blocks provide pain relief after surgical procedures and help clinicians better manage each patient pain. we offer the first stimulating continuous nerve block catheter, the arrow stimucath, which confirms the positive placement of the catheter next to the nerve. the flex tip plus continuous epidural catheter features a soft, flexible tip that helps reduce the incidence of complications, such as transient paresthesia and inadvertent cannulation of blood vessels or the dura, while improving the clinician ability to thread the catheter into the epidural space. our arrow theracath epidural catheter, with high compression strength for direction-ability and enhanced radiopacity, was designed for pain management procedures where increased steer-ability is important. additional integral components create a range of standard and custom procedural kits. urology: our line of urology products provides bladder management products for patients in the hospital and home care markets. our product portfolio consists principally of catheters (including foley, intermittent, external and suprapubic), urine collectors, catheterization accessories and products for operative endurology. teleflex medical today has significant market share in foley catheters in the emea markets (europe, the middle east and africa). the intermittent catheter market for home care is growing quickly, and medical service, our specialist in intermittent catheterization, has a leading share of the german healthcare market with liquick base and mobile catheters. teleflex medical in italy has also significantly increased its sales of intermittent catheters in the year 2008. we also design our urine collectors, catheterization accessories and kits with teleflex medical overall infection prevention strategy in mind. for example, the r sch mmg closed system intermittent catheter is used in the treatment of spinal cord injury patients. our teleflex medical team in north america successfully introduced a new version of the mmg h2o to the market in 2008. surgical instruments and medical devices: products in this category represented 20 percent of medical segment net revenues in 2008. our surgical instrument and medical device products include: ligation and closure products including appliers, clips, and sutures used in a variety of surgical procedures, hand-held instruments for general and specialty surgical procedures, access ports used in minimally invasive surgical procedures including robotic surgery, and fluid management products used for chest drainage. in addition, we provide instrument management services. we market surgical instruments and medical devices under the deknatel, pleur-evac, pilling, taut and weck brand names. hem-o-lok is the world only patented locking polymer ligation clip, and is a growing part of the weck portfolio. hem-o-lok clips have special applications in robotic, laparoscopic, and cardiovascular surgery, and provide surgeons with a unique level of security and performance. in 2009, we plan to introduce the taut universal seal designed for use with the adapt tm line of bladeless laparoscopic access devices. the new taut seal eclipses other options by providing surgeons the ability to perform laparoscopic procedures without flimsy diaphragm seals, lubricants that can smudge cameras, or the need for reducer caps. coupled with the new universal seal, taut provides a complete line of ports from 3mm to 15mm, including balloon ports and bariatric and pediatric versions. taut ports were designed around the patented adapt asymmetrical dilating access tip that dilates through tissue without metal or plastic blades. the adapt tip has been shown to produce a fascial defect 58 percent smaller than typical bladed trocars and avoids exposing any anatomical structures to a blade of any kind. devices for original equipment manufacturers ( oem ): customized medical instruments, implants and components sold to medical device manufacturers represented 10 percent of medical segment revenues in 2008. under the well-regarded brand names of beere medical , kmedic , specialized medical devices tm , deknatel and tfx oem we provide specialized product development services, which include design 6 table of contents engineering, prototyping and testing, manufacturing, assembly and packaging. our oem product development and manufacturing facilities are located in germany, ireland, mexico and the united states. the oem category includes custom extrusion, catheter fabrication, introducer systems, sheath/dilator sets, specialty sutures, resins and performance fibers. we also provide machined and forged instrumentation for general and specialty procedures, ortho-grip instrument handles and fixation devices used primarily for orthopedic procedures. cardiac care devices: cardiac care products accounted for approximately 5 percent of revenues in fiscal 2008. products in this category range from diagnostic catheters, such as thermodilution and wedge pressure catheters, specialized angiographic catheters, such as berman and reverse berman catheters, therapeutic delivery catheters, such as temporary pacing catheters and intra-aortic balloon (iab) catheters to capital equipment, such as intra-aortic balloon pump (iabp) consoles. iabp products are used to augment oxygen delivery to the cardiac muscle and reduce the oxygen demand after cardiac surgery, serious heart attack or interventional procedures. the iab and iabp product lines feature the autocat 2 wave console and the fiberoptix tm catheter, which together utilize fiber optic technology for arterial pressure signal acquisition and allow the patented wave timing algorithm to support the broadest range of patient heart rhythms, including severely arrhythmic patients. the following table sets forth net revenues for 2008, 2007 and 2006 by product category for the medical segment. 2008 2007 2006 (dollars in thousands) medical products for critical care $ 957,129 $ 578,097 $ 485,924 surgical instruments and devices $ 295,992 $ 294,501 $ 234,964 devices for original equipment manufacturers $ 158,343 $ 138,142 $ 137,788 devices for cardiac care $ 72,871 $ 18,154 $ other $ 14,772 $ 12,455 $ the following table sets forth the percentage of net revenues by end market for the medical segment. 2008 2007 hospitals / healthcare providers 84 % 78 % medical device manufacturers 10 % 13 % home health 6 % 9 % markets for these products are influenced by a number of factors including demographics, utilization and reimbursement patterns in the worldwide healthcare markets. our products are sold through direct sales or distribution in over 140 countries. the following table sets forth the percentage of net revenues for 2008 derived from the major geographic areas we serve. 2008 2007 north america 53 % 54 % europe, middle east and africa 37 % 38 % asia, latin america 10 % 8 % sales and marketing: medical products are sold directly to hospitals, healthcare providers, distributors and to original equipment manufacturers of medical devices through our own sales forces and through independent representatives and independent distributor networks. backlog: most of our medical products are sold to hospitals or healthcare providers on orders calling for delivery within a few days or weeks with a longer order time for products sold to medical device manufacturers. therefore, the backlog of such orders is not indicative of probable revenues in any future 12-month period. 7 table of contents aerospace our aerospace segment businesses provide engine repair products and services for flight turbine engines, cargo handling systems and equipment for wide body and narrow body aircraft, cargo containment devices for air cargo and passenger baggage, and actuators for applications in commercial and military aircraft. engine repair products and services are provided for all major engine suppliers and we serve most of the world leading commercial airlines. our market leading brand names, airfoil technologies international, telair international, and nordisk are well known and respected on a global basis. sales to customers in commercial aviation markets represent 99 percent of revenues in this segment. markets for these products are influenced by the level of general economic activity, investment patterns in new aircraft, both passenger and cargo, cargo market trends, flight hours, and age and type of engines in use. major locations for manufacturing and service are located in singapore, germany, norway, the united states, the united kingdom, and sweden. engine repair products and services: the largest single product category in the aerospace segment, repair products and services represented 50 percent of aerospace segment revenues in 2008. this category includes engine repair technologies and services primarily for critical components of flight turbines, including fan blades, compressors and airfoils. we utilize advanced reprofiling and adaptive-machining techniques to improve efficiency of aircraft engine performance and reduce turnaround time for maintenance and repairs. our repair products and services business is conducted through a consolidated, fifty-one percent owned venture with ge aircraft engines, called airfoil technologies international (ati). in 2007, ati signed a joint venture and management agreement with snecma services to expand the range of repair services provided to our customers. cargo-handling systems and equipment: products in this category represented 50 percent of aerospace segment revenues in 2008. our cargo-handling systems include on-board cargo-loading systems for wide-body aircraft, baggage-handling systems for narrow body aircraft, aftermarket spare parts and repair services. marketed under the telair international brand name, our wide-body cargo-handling systems are sold to aircraft original equipment manufacturers or to airlines and air freight carriers as seller and/or buyer furnished equipment for original installations or as retrofits for existing equipment. cargo-handling systems require a high degree of engineering sophistication and are often custom-designed. in addition to the design and manufacture of cargo systems, we provide customers with aftermarket spare parts and repair services for their telair systems. we also design, manufacture and repair cargo containers. in november 2007, we acquired nordisk aviation products, expanding our customer base and global manufacturing and service capacity for cargo equipment. all of our cargo containers and pallets are now marketed to commercial airlines and freight companies under the nordisk name. we also manufacture and repair components for our systems and other related aircraft controls, including canopy and door actuators, cargo winches and flight controls. the following table sets forth net revenues for 2008, 2007 and 2006 by product category for the aerospace segment. 2008 2007 2006 (dollars in thousands) engine repair products and services $ 257,428 $ 253,975 $ 250,519 cargo-handling systems and equipment $ 253,818 $ 197,813 $ 154,853 the following table sets forth the percentage of net revenues by end market for the aerospace segment. 2008 2007 commercial aviation 99 % 97 % military, industrial and other 1 % 3 % 8 table of contents backlog: as of december 31, 2008, our backlog of firm orders for our aerospace segment was $78 million, of which we expect approximately 91 percent to be filled in 2009. our backlog for our aerospace segment on december 31, 2007 was $141 million. sales and marketing: products sold to the aerospace market are sold through our own field representatives and distributors. commercial our commercial segment businesses principally design, manufacture and distribute driver controls and engine and drive assemblies for the marine market, power and fuel systems for truck, rail, automotive and industrial vehicles and rigging products and services. our products are used in a range of markets including: recreational marine, heavy truck, bus, industrial vehicles, rail, oil and gas, marine transportation and industrial. major manufacturing operations are located in canada, europe, singapore and the united states. marine driver controls and engine assemblies and drive parts: this is the largest single product category in the commercial segment, representing 48 percent of the commercial segment revenues in 2008. products in this category include: shift and throttle cables, mechanical and hydraulic steering systems, throttle controls, instrumentation and engine drive parts. we are a leading global provider of both mechanical and hydraulic steering systems for recreational powerboats. we are also a leading distributor of engine assemblies and drive parts. our marine products are sold to original equipment manufacturers (oems) and to the aftermarket through distributors, dealers and retail outlets. our major product brands include teleflex marine, tfxtreme, seastar, baystar, sierra and proheat. power and fuel systems: products in this category represented 27 percent of commercial segment revenues in 2008. our major products in this category include auxiliary power units used for power in heavy-duty trucks and locomotives, climate control systems used in trucks, buses and other industrial vehicles and components and systems for the use of alternative fuels in industrial vehicles and passenger cars. these products generally address the need for greater fuel efficiency, reduced emissions and access to mobile power. our major product brands in this category are comfortpro and teleflex gfi. rigging products and services: products in this category represented 25 percent of commercial segment revenues in 2008. products include heavy-duty cables and hoisting and rigging equipment used in oil drilling, marine transportation and other industrial markets. we also help our customers meet new legislation and safety regulations for moorings. in 2007, teleflex commercial enhanced its offerings when it acquired southern wire corporation, a prominent wholesale provider of rigging services. the following table sets forth net revenues for 2008, 2007 and 2006 by product category for the commercial segment. 2008 2007 2006 (dollars in thousands) marine driver controls and engine and drive parts $ 198,987 $ 240,092 $ 229,250 power and fuel systems $ 110,153 $ 119,026 $ 129,116 rigging products and services $ 101,454 $ 82,077 $ 68,395 the following table sets forth the percentage of net revenues by end market for the commercial segment. 2008 2007 recreational marine 41 % 48 % truck and rail 9 % 15 % automotive and industrial vehicle 25 % 18 % rigging products and services 25 % 19 % 9 table of contents backlog: standard commercial segment products are typically shipped between a few days and three months after receipt of order. therefore, the backlog of such orders is not indicative of probable revenues in any future 12-month period. sales and marketing: the majority of our commercial segment products are sold through a direct sales force of field representatives and technical specialists. marine driver controls and engine and drive parts are sold directly to boat builders and engine manufacturers as well as through distributors, dealers and retail outlets to reach recreational boaters. auxiliary power units are primarily sold in the north american truck market through an agreement with a distributor and to the rail market using a direct sales force and distributors. fuel systems and components include custom applications sold globally directly to industrial equipment manufacturers and to the automotive aftermarket principally in europe and latin america. rigging products and services includes both a retail business and a wholesale business, both of which sell through a direct sales force. government regulation government agencies in a number of countries regulate our products and the products sold by our customers utilizing our products. the u.s. food and drug administration and government agencies in other countries regulate the approval, manufacturing, and sale and marketing of many of our healthcare products. the u.s. federal aviation administration and the european aviation safety agency regulate the manufacture and sale of some of our aerospace products and license the operation of our repair stations. for more information, see item 1a. risk factors . competition given the range and diversity of our products and markets, no one competitor offers competitive products for all the markets and customers that we serve. in general, all of our segments and product lines face significant competition from competitors of varying sizes, although the number of competitors in each market tends to be limited. we believe that our competitive position depends on the technical competence and creative ability of our engineering personnel, the know-how and skill of our manufacturing personnel, and the strength and scope of our sales, service and distribution networks. patents and trademarks we own a portfolio of patents, patents pending and trademarks. we also license various patents and trademarks. patents for individual products extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. trademark rights may potentially extend for longer periods of time and are dependent upon national laws and use of the marks. all capitalized product names throughout this document are trademarks owned by, or licensed to, us or our subsidiaries. although these have been of value and are expected to continue to be of value in the future, we do not consider any single patent or trademark, except for the teleflex brand and the arrow brand, to be essential to the operation of our business. suppliers and materials materials used in the manufacture of our products are purchased from a large number of suppliers in diverse geographic locations. we are not dependent on any single supplier for a substantial amount of the materials used or components supplied for our overall operations. most of the materials and components we use are available from multiple sources, and where practical, we attempt to identify alternative suppliers. volatility in commodity markets, particularly steel and plastic resins, can have a significant impact on the cost of producing certain of our products. we cannot be assured of successfully passing these cost increases through to all of our customers, particularly original equipment manufacturers. 10 table of contents seasonality portions of our revenues, particularly in the commercial and medical segments, are subject to seasonal fluctuations. revenues in the marine aftermarket generally increase in the second quarter as boat owners prepare their watercraft for the upcoming season. incidence of flu and other disease patterns as well as the frequency of elective medical procedures affect revenues related to disposable medical products. employees we employed approximately 14,200 full-time and temporary employees at december 31, 2008. of these employees, approximately 4,100 were employed in the united states and 10,100 in countries outside of the united states. less than 8 percent of our employees in the united states were covered by union contracts. we have government-mandated collective-bargaining arrangements or union contracts that cover employees in other countries. we believe we have good relationships with our employees. investor information we are subject to the informational requirements of the securities exchange act of 1934. therefore, we file reports, proxy statements and other information with the securities and exchange commission (sec). such reports, proxy and information statements, and other information may be obtained by visiting the public reference room of the sec at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549 or by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. in addition, the sec maintains an internet site ( http://www.sec.gov ) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. you can access financial and other information in the investors section of our website. the address is www.teleflex.com . we make available through our website, free of charge, copies of our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed or furnished under section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the sec. the information on our website is not part of this annual report on form 10-k. the reference to our website address is intended to be an inactive textual reference only. we are a delaware corporation organized in 1943. our executive offices are located at 155 south limerick road, limerick, pa 19468. our telephone number is (610) 948-5100. executive officers the names and ages of all of our executive officers as of february 24, 2009 and the positions and offices held by each such officer are as follows: name age positions and offices with company jeffrey p. black 49 chairman, chief executive officer and director kevin k. gordon 46 executive vice president and chief financial officer laurence g. miller 54 executive vice president, general counsel and secretary r. ernest waaser 52 president medical john suddarth 49 president aerospace vince northfield 45 executive vice president, global operations - medical randall p. gaboriault 39 senior vice president and chief information officer 11 table of contents mr. black has been chairman since may 2006, chief executive officer since may 2002 and president since december 2000. he has been a director since november 2002. mr. black was president of the teleflex industrial group from july 2000 to december 2000 and president of teleflex fluid systems from january 1999 to july 2000. mr. gordon has been executive vice president and chief financial officer since march 2007. from june 2005 until march 2007, he was senior vice president corporate development. from december 2000 to june 2005, mr. gordon was vice president corporate development. prior to december 2000, mr. gordon was director of business development. mr. miller has been executive vice president, general counsel and secretary since february 2008. from november 2004 to february 2008, mr. miller was senior vice president, general counsel and secretary. from november 2001 until november 2004, he was senior vice president and associate general counsel for the food support services division of aramark corporation, a diversified management services company providing food, refreshment, facility and other support services for a variety of organizations. from june 1994 until november 2001, mr. miller was senior vice president and general counsel for aramark uniform services. mr. waaser has been the president of teleflex medical since october 2006. prior to joining teleflex, mr. waaser served as president and chief executive officer of hill-rom, inc., a manufacturer and provider of products and services for the healthcare industry, including patient room equipment, therapeutic wound and pulmonary care products, biomedical equipment services and communications systems, from 2001 to 2005. prior to 2001, mr. waaser served as senior vice president of agfa corporation, a producer of analog and digital imaging products for medical, industrial, graphics and consumer applications. mr. suddarth has been the president of teleflex aerospace since july 2004. from 2003 to 2004, mr. suddarth was the president of techsonic industries inc., a former subsidiary of teleflex that manufactured underwater sonar and video viewing equipment which was divested in 2004. mr. suddarth was the chief operating officer of amf bowling products, inc., a bowling equipment manufacturer, from 2001 to 2003. prior to 2001, mr. suddarth was president of morse controls, a manufacturer of performance and control systems and aftermarket parts for marine and industrial applications, which was acquired by teleflex in 2001. mr. northfield has been the executive vice president for global operations, teleflex medical since september 2008. from 2005 to 2008, mr. northfield was the president of teleflex commercial. from 2004 to 2005, mr. northfield was the president of teleflex automotive and the vice president of strategic development. mr. northfield held the position of vice president of strategic development from 2001 to 2004. prior to 2001, mr. northfield was vice president and general manager of north american operations of morse controls, a manufacturer of performance and control systems and aftermarket parts for marine and industrial applications, which was acquired by teleflex in 2001. mr. gaboriault has been senior vice president and chief information officer since february 2008. from 2005 to 2008, he was chief information and strategic development officer. from 2004 to 2005, he was chief information officer. from 1998 to 2004, mr. gaboriault was the director of information technology. our officers are elected annually by the board of directors. each officer serves at the pleasure of the board until their respective successors have been elected. 12 table of contents item 1a. risk factors we are subject to certain risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. these risks include, but are not limited to the following: our inability to resolve issues related to the fda corporate warning letter issued to arrow could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. on october 11, 2007, arrow received a corporate warning letter from the u.s. food and drug administration ( fda ), which expresses concerns with arrow quality systems, including complaint handling, corrective and preventive action, process and design validation and inspection and training procedures. while we are working with the fda to resolve these issues, this work has required and will continue to require the dedication of significant internal and external resources. there can be no assurances regarding the length of time or cost it will take us to resolve these issues to the satisfaction of the fda. in addition, if our remedial actions are not satisfactory to the fda, we may need to devote additional financial and human resources to our efforts, and the fda may take further regulatory actions against us. these actions may include seizing our product inventory, obtaining a court injunction against further marketing of our products, assessing civil monetary penalties or imposing a consent decree on us, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. a prolonged global economic recession combined with a continuation of volatile global credit markets could adversely impact our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. current global economic and financial market conditions, including severe disruptions in the credit markets and the potential for a significant and prolonged global economic recession, may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. this could include future charges to recognize impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets. the amount of goodwill and other intangible assets on our consolidated balance sheet have increased significantly in recent years, primarily as a result of the acquisition of arrow international in 2007. these economic conditions may also materially impact our customers, suppliers and other parties with which we do business. economic and financial market conditions that adversely affect our customers may cause them to terminate existing purchase orders or to reduce the volume of products or services they purchase from us in the future. the impact of the difficult economic environment was felt mostly in our commercial segment during 2008, as the markets served by our marine and auxiliary power unit products were adversely impacted. we expect the marine market to remain weak for most, if not all, of 2009. in addition, hospitals in some regions of the united states have seen a decline in admissions and a reduction in elective procedures and have limited their capital spending. more than 80 percent of our medical revenues come from disposable products used in critical care and surgical applications and our sales volume could be negatively impacted by declines in admission. adverse economic and financial market conditions may also cause our suppliers to be unable to meet their commitments to us or may cause suppliers to make changes in the credit terms they extend to us, such as shortening the required payment period for outstanding accounts receivable or reducing the maximum amount of trade credit available to us. changes of this type could significantly affect our liquidity and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. if we are unable to successfully anticipate changing economic and financial market conditions, we may be unable to effectively plan for and respond to those changes, and our business could be negatively affected. we may not be able to successfully complete the integration of arrow or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the arrow acquisition. the integration of arrow into our medical segment involves a number of risks and presents financial, managerial and operational challenges. in particular, we may have difficulty with, and may incur unanticipated expenses related to: consolidating manufacturing and administrative functions; complying with legal requirements applicable to certain aspects of the integration; 13 table of contents retaining key employees; consolidating infrastructures and systems; coordinating sales and marketing functions; preserving our and arrow customer, supplier and other important relationships; and minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns. the success of the arrow acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings from successfully combining the businesses of arrow and of teleflex medical in the time frame we anticipate. if we are not able to achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits, synergies and cost savings of the business combination may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. failure to successfully complete the integration of arrow or achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of arrow may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have substantial debt obligations that could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. we incurred significant indebtedness to fund a portion of the consideration for our acquisition of arrow. as of december 31, 2008, our outstanding indebtedness was approximately $1.5 billion. we will be required to use a significant portion of our operating cash flow to reduce our indebtedness over the next few years, resulting in a reduction of the cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments and dividends. our indebtedness may also subject us to greater vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and increase our vulnerability to increases in interest rates because a portion of our indebtedness bears interest at floating rates. our senior credit facility and agreements with the holders of our senior notes, which we refer to as our senior debt facilities, impose certain operating and financial covenants that limit our ability to, among other things: incur debt; create liens; consolidate, merge or dispose of assets; make investments; engage in acquisitions pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of our capital stock; and enter into derivative agreements to manage exposure to changes in interest rates. in addition, the terms of our senior credit facilities require us to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios. our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and in the event of a significant deterioration of our economic performance, we cannot assure that we will be able to satisfy those ratios. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our senior credit facilities. if we fail to maintain compliance with these covenants and cannot obtain a waiver from the lenders under the senior credit facilities, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the senior secured credit facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit under such facilities. if the lenders under the senior credit facilities accelerate the repayment of borrowings and we are not able to obtain financing to satisfy this obligation, we likely would have to liquidate significant assets which nevertheless may not be sufficient to repay our borrowings. 14 table of contents we may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability, warranty and recall claims that may be brought against us. our businesses expose us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture and marketing of our products. in particular, our medical device products are often used in surgical and intensive care settings with seriously ill patients. many of these products are designed to be implanted in the human body for varying periods of time, and component failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks with respect to these or other products we manufacture or sell could result in an unsafe condition or injury to, or death of, the patient. although the company carries product liability insurance we may be exposed to product liability and warranty claims in the event that our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected or the use of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury and/or property damage. accordingly, we could experience material warranty or product liability losses in the future and incur significant costs to defend these claims. in addition, if any of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective, we may be required to participate in a recall of that product if the defect or the alleged defect relates to safety and experience lost sales, and be exposed to legal and reputational risk. product liability, warranty and recall costs may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to risks associated with our non-u.s. operations. although no material concentration of our manufacturing operations exists in any single country, we have significant manufacturing operations outside the united states, including operations conducted through entities that are not wholly-owned and other alliances. as of, and for the year ended, december 31, 2008, approximately 44% of our total fixed assets and 53% of our total net revenues were attributable to products directly distributed from our operations outside the u.s. our international operations are subject to varying degrees of risk inherent in doing business outside the u.s., including: exchange controls, currency restrictions and fluctuations in currency values; trade protection measures; import or export requirements; subsidies or increased access to capital for firms who are currently or may emerge as competitors in countries in which we have operations; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; differing labor regulations; differing protection of intellectual property; unsettled political conditions and possible terrorist attacks against american interests; and regional and national tenders (which may be exclusive). these and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our business, results of operations and financial condition generally. customers in our medical segment depend on third party reimbursement and the failure of healthcare programs to provide reimbursement or the reduction in levels of reimbursement for our medical products could adversely affect our medical segment. demand for some of our medical products is impacted by the reimbursement to our customers of patients medical expenses by government healthcare programs and private health insurers in the countries where we do business. internationally, medical reimbursement systems vary significantly, with medical centers in some countries having fixed budgets, regardless of the level of patient treatment. other countries require application for, and approval of, government or third party reimbursement. without both favorable coverage 15 table of contents determinations by, and the financial support of, government and third party insurers, the market for some of our medical products could be adversely impacted. we cannot be sure that third party payors will maintain the current level of reimbursement to our customers for use of our existing products. adverse coverage determinations or any reduction in the amount of this reimbursement could harm our business. in addition, as a result of their purchasing power, these payors often seek discounts, price reductions or other incentives from medical products suppliers. our provision of such pricing concessions could negatively impact our revenues and product margins. uncertainties regarding future healthcare policy, legislation and regulations, as well as private market practices, could affect our ability to sell our products in acceptable quantities at profitable prices. foreign currency exchange rate, commodity price and interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. we expect revenue from products manufactured in, and sold into, non-u.s. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our net revenue. our consolidated financial statements reflect translation of financial statements denominated in non-u.s. currencies to u.s. dollars, our reporting currency. when the u.s. dollar strengthens or weakens in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries where we sell or manufacture our products, such as the euro, our u.s. dollar-reported revenue and income will fluctuate. although we have entered into forward contracts with several major financial institutions to hedge a portion of projected cash flows in order to reduce the effects of this fluctuation, changes in the relative values of currencies may, in some instances, have a significant effect on our results of operations. many of our products have significant steel and plastic resin content. we also use quantities of other commodities, including copper and zinc. although we monitor our exposure to these commodity price increases as an integral part of our overall risk management program, volatility in the prices of these commodities could increase the costs of our products and services. we may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers and this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. our failure to successfully develop new products could adversely affect our results. the future success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability to design and manufacture new competitive products and to enhance existing products, particularly in the medical device industry, which is characterized by rapid product development and technological advances. this product development may require substantial investment by us. there can be no assurance that unforeseen problems will not occur with respect to the development, performance or market acceptance of new technologies or products, such as the inability to: identify viable new products; obtain adequate intellectual property protection; gain market acceptance of new products; or successfully obtain regulatory approvals. moreover, we may not otherwise be able to successfully develop and market new products. our failure to successfully develop and market new products could reduce our revenues and margins, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our technology is important to our success, and our failure to protect this technology could put us at a competitive disadvantage. because many of our products rely on proprietary technology, we believe that the development and protection of these intellectual property rights is important, though not essential, to the future success of our business. in addition to relying on our patents, trademarks and copyrights, we rely on confidentiality 16 table of contents agreements with employees and other measures to protect our know-how and trade secrets. despite our efforts to protect proprietary rights, unauthorized parties or competitors may copy or otherwise obtain and use these products or technology. the steps we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of this technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the u.s. moreover, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop the know-how and trade secrets or develop better technology than ours or that current and former employees, contractors and other parties will not breach confidentiality agreements, misappropriate proprietary information and copy or otherwise obtain and use our information and proprietary technology without authorization or otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. our inability to protect our proprietary technology could result in competitive harm that could adversely affect our business. we depend upon relationships with physicians and other health care professionals. the research and development of some of our products is dependent on our maintaining strong working relationships with physicians and other health care professionals. we rely on these professionals to provide us with considerable knowledge and experience regarding our products and the development of our products. physicians assist us as researchers, product consultants, inventors and as public speakers. if we fail to maintain our working relationships with physicians and receive the benefits of their knowledge, advice and input, our products may not be developed and marketed in line with the needs and expectations of the professionals who use and support our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in the course of our business, we are subject to a variety of litigation that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we are a party to various lawsuits and claims arising in the normal course of business. these lawsuits and claims include actions involving product liability, contracts, intellectual property, import and export regulations, employment and environmental matters. the defense of these lawsuits may divert our management attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. in addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. while we do not believe that any litigation in which we are currently engaged would have such an adverse effect, the outcome of these legal proceedings may differ from our expectations because the outcomes of litigation, including regulatory matters, are often difficult to reliably predict and we cannot assure that the outcome of pending or future litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. much of our business is subject to extensive government regulation, and our failure to comply with those regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and we may incur significant expenses to comply with these regulations. numerous national and local government agencies in a number of countries regulate our products. the fda and government agencies in other countries regulate the approval, manufacturing and sale and marketing of many of our medical products. the u.s. federal aviation administration and the european aviation safety agency regulate the manufacture and sale of some of our aerospace products and licenses the operation of our repair stations. failure to comply with applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines could lead to manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages, delays in product manufacturing, product seizures, recalls, operating restrictions, withdrawal of required licenses, prohibitions against exporting of products to countries outside the united states, importing products from manufacturing facilities outside the u.s., and civil and criminal penalties, including exclusion under medicaid or medicare, any one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 table of contents the process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the fda and certain foreign governmental authorities, can be costly and time consuming, and approvals might not be granted for future products on a timely basis, if at all, resulting in delayed realization of product revenues or in substantial additional costs, which could have material adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations. our medical segment facilities are subject to periodic inspection by the fda and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities, which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to certain regulations, including testing, quality control and documentation procedures. we are also subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare pricing and fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback and false claims laws. violations of these laws may be punishable by criminal or civil sanctions, including substantial fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs. in addition, we are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things: the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; and the health and safety of our employees. these laws and government regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or will not adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. moreover, we may be subject to additional environmental claims, which may include claims for personal injury or cleanup, in the future based on our past, present or future business activities, which could also adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our acquisitions and strategic alliances may not meet revenue or profit expectations. as part of our strategy for growth, we have made and may continue to make acquisitions and divestitures and enter into strategic alliances such as joint ventures and joint development agreements. however, we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions or integrate acquisitions successfully, and our strategic alliances may not prove to be successful. in this regard, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies and the diversion of management attention from other business concerns. although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in any particular transaction, there can be no assurance that we will properly ascertain all such risks. in addition, prior acquisitions have resulted, and future acquisitions could result, in the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness and other expenses. future acquisitions may also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities. there can be no assurance that difficulties encountered with acquisitions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our workforce covered by collective bargaining and similar agreements could cause interruptions in our provision of services. approximately 17% of our manufacturing net revenues are produced by operations for which a significant part of our workforce is covered by collective bargaining agreements and similar agreements in foreign jurisdictions. it is likely that a portion of our workforce will remain covered by collective bargaining and similar agreements for the foreseeable future. strikes or work stoppages could occur that would adversely impact our relationships with our customers and our ability to conduct our business. 18 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk we are exposed to certain financial risks, specifically fluctuations in market interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and, to a lesser extent, commodity prices. we use derivative financial instruments to manage or reduce the impact of some of these risks. all instruments are entered into for other than trading purposes. we are also exposed to changes in the market traded price of our common stock as it influences the valuation of stock options and their effect on earnings. 49 table of contents interest rate risk we are exposed to changes in interest rates as a result of our borrowing activities and our cash balances. interest rate swaps are used to manage a portion of our interest rate risk. the table below is an analysis of the amortization and related interest rates by year of maturity for our fixed and variable rate debt obligations. variable interest rates shown below are weighted average rates of the debt portfolio based on december 31, 2008 rates. for the swaps, notional amounts and related interest rates are shown by year of maturity. the fair value, net of tax, of the interest rate swap as of december 31, 2008 was a loss of $27.0 million. year of maturity 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 thereafter total (dollars in thousands) fixed rate debt $ $ $ 145,000 $ 180,000 $ $ 226,600 $ 551,600 average interest rate 7.7% 7.7% 8.2% 7.9% variable rate debt $ 108,853 $ 102,258 $ 102,221 $ 676,459 $ $ 5,000 $ 994,791 average interest rate 4.3% 4.2% 4.2% 4.2% 3.0% 4.2% amount subject to swaps: variable to fixed (1) $ 600,000 average rate to be received 3 months usd libor average rate to be paid 4.75% (2 ) (1) the notional value of the interest rate swap is $600 million at inception and amortizes down to a notional value of $350 million at maturity in 2012. (2) the all in cost of the $600 million swapped debt is 4.75% plus the applicable spread over libor, currently at 125 basis points. a 1.0% change in variable interest rates would adversely or positively impact our expected net earnings by approximately $2.4 million, for the year ended december 31, 2009. foreign currency risk we are exposed to fluctuations in market values of transactions in currencies other than the functional currencies of certain subsidiaries. we have entered into forward contracts with several major financial institutions to hedge a portion of projected cash flows from these exposures. these are all contracts to buy or sell a foreign currency against the u.s. dollar. the fair value of the open forward contracts as of december 31, 2008 was a loss of $5 million. the following table presents our open forward currency contracts as of december 31, 2008, which mature in 2009. forward contract notional amounts presented below are expressed in the stated currencies (in thousands). the total notional amount for all contracts translates to approximately $99.6 million. forward currency contracts: buy/(sell) japanese yen (621,070 ) euros (8,149 ) mexican peso 269,713 czech koruna 108,606 swedish krona 41,820 malaysian ringgits 41,016 canadian dollars 19,952 singapore dollars 17,004 british pounds 2,046 50 table of contents a strengthening of 10% in the value of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies would, on a combined basis, adversely impact the translation of our non-us subsidiary net earnings and transactions on currencies other than the functional currency of certain subsidiaries by approximately $1.6 million, for the year ended december 31, 2009.risk factors of this annual report on form 10-k. we expressly disclaim any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements, except as otherwise specifically stated by us. 1 part i item 1. business teleflex incorporated is referred to herein as we, us, our, teleflex and the company. the company teleflex is principally a global provider of medical technology products that enable healthcare providers to improve patient outcomes, reduce infections and enhance patient and provider safety. we primarily develop, manufacture and supply single-use medical devices used by hospitals and healthcare providers for common diagnostic and therapeutic procedures in critical care and surgical applications. we serve hospitals and healthcare providers in more than 140 countries. we provide a broad-based platform of medical products, which we categorize into four groups: critical care, surgical care, cardiac care and oem and development services. critical care, representing our largest product group, includes medical devices used in vascular access, anesthesia, urology and respiratory care applications; surgical care includes surgical instruments and devices; and cardiac care includes cardiac assist devices and equipment. we also design and manufacture instruments and devices for other medical device manufacturers. our primary products and product brands include the following: arrow vascular access products, including, central venous access catheters, or cvcs, featuring the arrowg+ard, or arrowg+ard blue plus, antiseptic surface treatments to reduce the risk of catheter related infection, peripherally inserted central catheters, or piccs, catheters for use in treatment of chronic hemodialysis and catheters and accessories used in critical care monitoring and treatment; sheridan and r sch endotracheal tubes, laryngeal masks, airways and face masks to deliver anesthetic agents and oxygen, and arrow regional anesthesia products that include catheters used in epidural, spinal and peripheral nerve block procedures; hudson rci and gibeck brand humidifiers, circuits, nebulizers, filters, masks, tubing and cannulas used in aerosol and medication delivery, oxygen therapy and ventilation management; rusch urology catheters (including foley, intermittent, external and suprapubic), urine collectors, catheterization accessories and products for operative endurology; deknatel, pleur-evac, pilling, taut and weck ligation products, clips, appliers, and hand-held instruments for general and specialty surgical procedures, access ports used in minimally invasive surgical procedures including robotic surgery, and fluid management products used for chest drainage; arrow cardiac assist balloon pumps, catheters and accessories used in the treatment of severe cardiac conditions; and beere medical, kmedic, specialized medical devices, deknatel and tfxoem customized medical instruments, implants and components. teleflex is focused on achieving consistent, sustainable and profitable growth through development of new products, expansion of market share, introduction of existing products into new geographies and through selected acquisitions which enhance or expedite our development initiatives and our ability to grow market share. furthermore, we believe our research and development capabilities and our commitment to engineering excellence and lean, low-cost manufacturing allow us to consistently bring cost effective, innovative products to market that improve the safety, efficacy, and quality of healthcare. in addition to our medical business, we also have businesses that serve niche segments of the aerospace and commercial markets with specialty engineered products. our aerospace products include cargo-handling systems, containers, and pallets for commercial air cargo, and military aircraft actuators. our commercial 2 products include driver controls, engine assemblies and drive parts for the marine industry and rigging products and services for commercial industries. history and recent developments teleflex was founded in 1943 as a manufacturer of precision mechanical push/pull controls for military aircraft. from this original single market, single product orientation, we have grown through an active program of development of new products, introduction of products into new geographic or end-markets and through acquisitions of companies with related market, technology or industry expertise. throughout our history, we have continually focused on providing innovative technology-driven, specialty-engineered products that help our customers meet their business requirements. over the past several years, we have engaged in an extensive acquisition and divestiture program to improve margins, reduce cyclicality and focus our resources on the development of our healthcare business. we have significantly changed the composition of our portfolio of businesses, expanding our presence in the medical device industry, while divesting many of our businesses serving the aerospace and industrial markets. the most significant of these transactions occurred in 2007 with our acquisition of arrow international, a leading global supplier of catheter-based medical technology products used for vascular access and cardiac care, and the divestiture of our automotive and industrial businesses. our acquisition of arrow significantly expanded our disposable medical product offerings for critical care, enhanced our global footprint and added to our research and development capabilities. we continually evaluate the composition of the portfolio of our products and businesses to ensure alignment with our overall objectives. we strive to maintain a portfolio of products and businesses that provide consistency of performance, improved profitability and sustainable growth. our business segments we operate our businesses through three segments, the largest of which is our medical segment, which represented 77 percent of our consolidated revenues and 91 percent of our segment operating profit in 2009. in 2009, our aerospace and commercial segments represented 10 percent and 13 percent of consolidated revenues, respectively, and 5 percent and 4 percent of segment operating profit, respectively. further detail and additional information regarding our segments and geographic areas is presented in note 17 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. medical our medical segment designs, develops, manufactures and supplies medical devices for critical care and surgical applications. we categorize our medical products into four product groups: critical care, surgical, cardiac care, and oem and development services. approximately 49 percent of our segment revenues are derived from customers outside the united states. our medical segment operates 30 manufacturing sites, with major manufacturing operations located in czech republic, germany, malaysia, mexico and the united states. the following is an overview of the key product lines within our medical segment. critical care critical care, which is predominantly comprised of single use products, constitutes the largest product category within our medical segment, representing 65 percent of segment revenues in 2009. our medical products are used in a wide range of critical care procedures for vascular access, respiratory care, anesthesia and airway management, treatment of urologic conditions and other specialty procedures. 3 we are a leading provider of specialty products for critical care. our products are generally marketed under the brand names of arrow, r sch, hudsonrci, gibeck and sheridan. the large majority of sales for disposable medical products are made to the hospital/healthcare provider market, with a smaller percentage sold to alternate sites. vascular access products our vascular access products are generally catheter-based products used in a variety of clinical procedures to facilitate multiple critical care therapies including the administration of intravenous medications, other therapies, and the measurement of blood pressure and taking of blood samples through a single puncture site. our vascular access catheters and related devices consist principally of central venous access catheters such as the following: the arrow-howe multi-lumen catheter, a catheter equipped with three or four channels, or lumens; double-and single-lumen catheters, which are designed for use in a variety of clinical procedures; the arrow pressure injectable cvc, which gives clinicians who perform contrast-enhanced ct scans the option of using an indwelling pressure injectable arrow cvc without having to insert another catheter for their scan; and percutaneous sheath introducers, which are used as a means for inserting cardiovascular and other catheterization devices into the vascular system during critical care procedures. we also provide a range of peripherally inserted central catheters, which are soft, flexible catheters inserted in the upper arm and advanced into the superior vena cava and are accessed for various types of intravenous medications and therapies, and radial artery catheters, which are used for measuring arterial blood pressure and taking blood samples. our offerings include a pressure injectable peripherally inserted catheter which addresses the therapeutic need for a catheter that can withstand the higher pressures required by the injection of contrast media for ct scans. our vascular access products also include specialty catheters and related products used in a range of other procedures and include percutaneous thrombolytic devices, which are designed for clearance of thrombosed hemodialysis grafts in chronic hemodialysis patients; and hemodialysis access catheters, including the cannon catheter, which is used to facilitate dialysis treatment. many of our vascular access catheters are treated with the arrowg+ard, or arrowg+ard blue plus, antiseptic surface treatments to reduce the risk of catheter related infection. arrowg+ard blue plus is a newer, longer lasting formulation of arrowg+ard and provides antimicrobial treatment of the interior lumens and hubs of each catheter. as part of our ongoing efforts to meet physicians needs for safety and management of risk of infection in the hospital setting, we sell a maximal barrier precautions central venous access kit, which includes a full body drape, a catheter treated with the arrowg+ard antimicrobial technology and other accessories. the features of this kit were created to assist healthcare providers in complying with guidelines for reducing catheter-related bloodstream infections that have been established by a variety of health regulatory agencies, such as the centers for disease control and prevention and the joint commission on the accreditation of healthcare organizations. related products include custom tubing sets used to connect central venous catheters to blood pressure monitoring devices and drug infusion systems. during 2009, we introduced the arrow pressure injectable triple lumen picc with a non-tapered catheter body and the arrow blueflextip, designed to reduce the risk of thrombosis and infection associated with venous access catheters. we introduced a new tray design and additional features for our kits containing our arrow pressure injectable cvc, and a cvc kit designed specifically for the needs of the japanese market. 4 respiratory care our respiratory care products principally consist of devices used in aerosol and medication delivery, oxygen therapy and ventilation management. we offer an extensive range of aerosol therapy products, including the micromist nebulizer, the neb-u-mask system and the opti-neb pro compressor. we are also a global provider of oxygen supplies, offering a broad range of products to deliver oxygen therapy safely and comfortably. these include masks, cannulas, tubing and humidifiers. these products are used in a variety of clinical settings including hospitals, long-term care facilities, rehabilitation centers and patients homes to treat respiratory ailments such as chronic lung disease, pneumonia, cystic fibrosis and asthma. our ventilation management products promote patient safety and maximize clinician efficiency. these products include ventilator circuits with an extended life to support clinical practice guidelines, high efficiency particulate air (hepa) filters that provide protection against the transmission of bacteria and viruses, heat and moisture exchangers that reduce circuit manipulation and cross-contamination risk and heated humidifiers that promote patient compliance to non-invasive respiratory strategies, like non-invasive ventilation and high flow oxygen therapy. our conchatherm neptune is a heated humidification solution. it is designed to enable the caregiver to customize patient treatment to meet specific clinical goals and to facilitate advanced patient outcomes without sacrificing clinician efficiency. during 2009, we introduced the gibeck humidflo heat and moisture exchanger, which allows medication to be delivered without breaking the breathing circuit or interrupting ventilation, and osmo, a product that allows for maintenance free water removal from the expiratory limb of the breathing circuit during mechanical ventilation (breathing systems used to deliver medical gases from a ventilator to a patient lungs). in 2009, we also signed an agreement to act as an exclusive distributor of the resmed non-invasive ventilation mask portfolio for specified acute care hospitals in the united states. anesthesia and airway management our anesthesia and airway management products include endotracheal tubes, laryngeal masks, airways and face masks to deliver anesthetic agents and oxygen. to assist in the placement of endotracheal tubes, we provide a comprehensive and unique line of laryngoscope blades and handles, including standard halogen and fiber optic light sources. our regional anesthesia or acute pain management products include epidural, spinal and peripheral nerve block catheters. nerve blocks provide pain relief during and after surgical procedures and help clinicians better manage each patient pain. we offer the first stimulating continuous nerve block catheter, the arrow stimucath, which confirms the positive placement of the catheter next to the nerve. the flex tip plus continuous epidural catheter features a soft, flexible tip that helps reduce the incidence of complications, such as transient paresthesia and inadvertent cannulation of blood vessels or the dura, while improving the clinician ability to thread the catheter into the epidural space. our arrow theracath epidural catheter, with high compression strength for direction-ability and enhanced radiopacity, was designed for pain management procedures where increased steer-ability is important. additional integral components create a range of standard and custom procedural kits. during 2009, we introduced a new line of laryngeal masks, added a line of disposable metal laryngoscope blades to our line of laryngoscope products and extended our endotracheal tube product line. we also expanded our range of products for acute pain management with the introduction of new spinal kits marketed under the arrow sureblock spinal brand. 5 urology our line of urology products provides bladder management for patients in the hospital and home care markets. our product portfolio consists principally of catheters (including foley, intermittent, external and suprapubic), urine collectors, catheterization accessories and products for operative endurology. we believe we have significant market share in foley catheters in the emea markets (europe, the middle east and africa). we also design our urine collectors, catheterization accessories and kits with our overall infection prevention strategy in mind. for example, the r sch mmg closed system intermittent catheter is used by spinal cord injury patients to help reduce the likelihood of urinary tract infections. in the united states, reimbursement regulations were implemented in 2009 that allow many medicare patients to shift from a re-useable practice, with its inherent risk of infections, to a single use disposable practice. sales of our intermittent catheters in the u.s. have benefited from this reimbursement shift. during 2009, we introduced new intermittent catheters with hydrophilic coatings, a new profile urinary foley catheter, and a silicone post-operative foley catheter all marketed under the r sch brand. surgical care surgical care, which is predominantly comprised of single use products, represented 19 percent of medical segment revenues in 2009. our surgical products include: ligation and closure products, including appliers, clips, and sutures used in a variety of surgical procedures; access ports used in minimally invasive surgical procedures including robotic surgery; and fluid management products used for chest drainage. our surgical products also include hand-held instruments for general and specialty surgical procedures, in addition, we provide instrument management services. we market surgical products under the deknatel, pleur-evac, pilling, taut and weck brand names. hem-o-lok is a unique locking polymer ligation clip, and is a significant part of the weck portfolio. hem-o-lok clips have special applications in robotic, laparoscopic and cardiovascular surgery and provide surgeons with a unique level of security and performance. in 2009, we introduced the taut universal seal designed for use with the adapt line of bladeless laparoscopic access devices. the new taut seal provides surgeons the ability to perform laparoscopic procedures with variable diameter instruments, without flimsy diaphragm seals, lubricants that can smudge cameras or the need for reducer caps. also during 2009, we added a new rotating head stapler and a new long endoscopic clip applier to our extensive line of ligation products. cardiac care cardiac care products accounted for approximately 5 percent of medical segment revenues in fiscal 2009. products in this category include diagnostic catheters and capital equipment, such as thermodilution and wedge pressure catheters; specialized angiographic catheters, such as berman and reverse berman catheters; therapeutic delivery catheters, such as temporary pacing catheters; and intra-aortic balloon, or iab, catheters to capital equipment, such as intra-aortic balloon pump, or iabp, consoles. iabp products are used to augment oxygen delivery to the cardiac muscle and reduce the oxygen demand after cardiac surgery, serious heart attack or interventional procedures. the iab and iabp product lines feature the autocat 2 wave console and the fiberoptix catheter, which together utilize fiber optic technology for arterial pressure signal acquisition and enable the patented wave timing algorithm to support the broadest range of patient heart rhythms, including severely arrhythmic patients. 6 oem and development services customized medical instruments, implants and components sold to original equipment manufacturers, or oems, represented 10 percent of medical segment revenues in 2009. under the beere medical, kmedic, specialized medical devices, deknatel and tfxoem brand names, we provide specialized product development services, which include design engineering, prototyping and testing, manufacturing, assembly and packaging. our oem product development and manufacturing facilities are located globally in close proximity to major medical device manufacturers in germany, ireland, mexico and the united states. the oem category includes custom extrusion, catheter fabrication, introducer systems, sheath/dilator sets, specialty sutures, resins and performance fibers. we also provide machined and forged instrumentation for general and specialty procedures, ortho-grip instrument handles and fixation devices used primarily for orthopedic procedures. medical segment revenues the following table sets forth revenues for 2009, 2008 and 2007 by product category for the medical segment. 2009 2008 2007 (dollars in thousands) critical care $ 939,390 $ 957,129 $ 578,097 surgical care $ 282,889 $ 295,992 $ 294,501 cardiac care $ 70,770 $ 72,871 $ 18,154 oem and development services $ 149,829 $ 158,343 $ 138,142 other $ 14,230 $ 14,774 $ 12,455 the following table sets forth the percentage of revenues for 2009, 2008 and 2007 by end market for the medical segment. 2009 2008 2007 hospitals / healthcare providers 84 % 84 % 78 % medical device manufacturers 10 % 10 % 13 % home health 6 % 6 % 9 % markets for these products are influenced by a number of factors including demographics, utilization and reimbursement patterns in the worldwide healthcare markets. our products are sold through direct sales or distribution in over 140 countries. the following table sets forth the percentage of revenues for 2009, 2008 and 2007 derived from the major geographic areas we serve. 2009 2008 2007 north america 53 % 53 % 54 % europe, middle east and africa 36 % 37 % 38 % asia, latin america 11 % 10 % 8 % aerospace our aerospace segment businesses provide cargo handling systems and equipment for wide body and narrow body aircraft, cargo containment devices for air cargo and passenger baggage, and actuators for applications in commercial and military aircraft. we are a leading global provider of cargo handling systems and equipment and cargo containers for commercial aircraft. our brand names, telair international and nordisk, are well known and respected on a global basis. 7 sales to customers in commercial aviation markets represent 95 percent of revenues in this segment in 2009. markets for our commercial aviation products are influenced by the level of general economic activity, investment patterns in new aircraft, both passenger and cargo, cargo market trends and flight hours. major locations for manufacturing and service are located in germany, norway, the united states, sweden, singapore and china. cargo-handling systems and equipment our cargo-handling systems include on-board automated cargo-loading systems for wide-body aircraft, baggage-handling systems for narrow body aircraft, aftermarket spare parts and repair services. marketed under the telair international brand name, our wide-body cargo-handling systems are sold to aircraft original equipment manufacturers or to airlines and air freight carriers as seller and/or buyer furnished equipment for original installations or as retrofits for existing equipment. cargo-handling systems require a high degree of engineering sophistication. telair international is the exclusive supplier of main deck and lower deck cargo systems for the new boeing 747-8. telair is also the exclusive provider of lower deck systems for the airbus a330/a340-200 and 300 aircraft. airbus is currently producing over 80 of these aircraft per year. telair has been selected to supply cargo systems for the airbus a350 xwb airframe when it enters production. telair is also the exclusive supplier of sliding carpet systems for bulk-loading of narrow body aircraft such as 737 passenger planes. the telair narrowbody system speeds loading and unloading of baggage and cargo to speed turnaround and increase aircraft utilization. this system is being installed in new 737 for american airlines and continental airlines, as well as in 737 and the a320 family aircraft for airlines all over the world. telair also provides bin loading systems for canadair (bombardier) aircraft. in addition to the design and manufacture of cargo systems, we provide customers with aftermarket spare parts and repair services for their telair systems. cargo containment we design, manufacture and repair unit loading devices, or ulds, which include both cargo containers and pallets. in november 2007, we acquired nordisk aviation products, expanding our customer base and global manufacturing and service capacity for cargo equipment. nordisk globally has the widest uld product line and specializes in ulds that either reduce weight or maximize cargo volume by closely matching the interior contour of the aircraft. in 2009 nordisk introduced the 55 kg ultralite container, the lightest in its class. weight reduction is a key factor in extending the range of aircraft, increasing payload and reducing fuel costs. nordisk provides global support of its products with worldwide spare parts stocking and a network of affiliated repair stations. actuation we manufacture and repair actuation devices and components for our systems and other related aircraft controls, including canopy and door actuators, cargo winches and flight controls. teleflex actuators are used on the boeing 747, 767 and 737 aircraft, as well as a number of military and legacy aircraft. in 2009, our actuation business won a significant order to provide actuation devices for the u.s. air force a-10 wing replacement program, as well as new content on the 747-8 and 747-intercontinental. aerospace segment revenue information the following table sets forth the percentage of revenues for 2009, 2008 and 2007 by end market for the aerospace segment. 2009 2008 2007 commercial aviation 95 % 98 % 93 % military, industrial and other 5 % 2 % 7 % 8 commercial our commercial segment businesses principally design, manufacture and distribute steering and throttle controls and engine and drive assemblies primarily for the recreational marine market, and rigging products and services for oil exploration, dredging, mooring, construction and associated applications. major manufacturing operations are located in canada, the united states and singapore. marine steering and throttle controls and engine assemblies and drive parts this is the largest single product category in the commercial segment, representing 68 percent of the commercial segment revenues in 2009. products in this category include: shift and throttle cables; mechanical, hydraulic and electronic steering systems and throttle controls; engine drive parts; associated parts and products; and outdoor power components. we are a leading global provider of both mechanical and hydraulic steering systems for recreational powerboats and mechanical, hydraulic, and electronic throttle controls. we also are a leading distributor of engine assemblies and drive parts, which are marketed under the well-known sierra brand name. our marine products are sold to oems, such as searay, bayliner, volvo penta, mercury and yamaha; and to the aftermarket through distributors, dealers and retail outlets and are widely available at marinas and retail outlets such as west marine and bass pro shops. our major product brands include teleflex marine, tfxtreme, seastar, baystar and sierra. we also manufacture and sell heaters that provide cold weather auxiliary heating solutions for commercial vehicles under the proheat name and burner units that provide a heat source for military field feeding appliances. rigging products and services products in this category represented 32 percent of commercial segment revenues in 2009. products include customized heavy-duty wire rope, wire rope assemblies, high tensile synthetic rope, synthetic assemblies and related rigging hardware. our markets include oil drilling, marine transportation, marine construction and material handling. with strain testing capabilities, we also help our customers meet new safety legislation and regulations for moorings. in 2007, we enhanced our product offerings in this business through our acquisition of southern wire corporation, a prominent wholesale provider of rigging services. with facilities in texas, louisiana, nevada, missouri, and mississippi, our rigging products and services business serves over 1,500 active accounts. commercial segment revenue information the following table sets forth revenues for 2009, 2008 and 2007 by product category for the commercial segment. 2009 2008 2007 (dollars in thousands) marine driver controls and engine and drive parts $ 168,125 $ 212,350 $ 253,843 rigging products and services $ 79,703 $ 101,454 $ 82,077 the following table sets forth the percentage of revenues for 2009, 2008 and 2007 by end market for the commercial segment. 2009 2008 2007 recreational marine 47 % 54 % 63 % commercial vehicles 13 % 14 % 12 % military 8 % rigging products and services 32 % 32 % 25 % 9 government regulation government agencies in a number of countries regulate our products and the products sold by our customers utilizing our products. the u.s. food and drug administration and government agencies in other countries regulate the approval, manufacturing, and sale and marketing of many of our healthcare products. the u.s. federal aviation administration and the european aviation safety agency regulate the manufacture and sale of some of our aerospace products and license the operation of our repair stations. for more information, see item 1a. risk factors. competition medical segment the medical devices industry is highly competitive. we compete with many companies, ranging from small start-up enterprises to companies that are larger and more established than us with access to significant financial resources. furthermore, new product development and technological change characterize the market in which we compete. we must continue to develop and acquire new products and technologies for our medical segment businesses to remain competitive. we believe that we compete primarily on the basis of clinical superiority and innovative features that enhance patient benefit, product reliability, performance, customer and sales support, and cost-effectiveness. aerospace and commercial segments the businesses within our aerospace and commercial segments generally face significant competition from competitors of varying sizes. we believe that our competitive position depends on the technical competence and creative ability of our engineering personnel, the know-how and skill of our manufacturing personnel, and the strength and scope of our sales, service and distribution networks. competitors of the businesses with our aerospace segment include goodrich corporation, aar corp and driessen aerospace group. competition for our commercial business tends to be fragmented. sales and marketing medical segment our medical products are sold directly to hospitals, healthcare providers, distributors and to original equipment manufacturers of medical devices through our own sales forces and through independent representatives and independent distributor networks. aerospace and commercial segments products sold to the aerospace market are sold through our own field representatives and distributors. the majority of our commercial segment products are sold through a direct sales force of field representatives and technical specialists. marine driver controls and engine and drive parts are sold directly to boat builders and engine manufacturers as well as through distributors, dealers and retail outlets to reach recreational boaters. rigging products and services includes both a retail business and a wholesale business, both of which sell through a direct sales force. backlog medical segment most of our medical products are sold to hospitals or healthcare providers on orders calling for delivery within a few days or weeks, with longer order times for products sold to medical device manufacturers. therefore, the backlog of our medical segment orders is not indicative of probable revenues in any future 12-month period. 10 aerospace segment as of december 31, 2009, our backlog of firm orders for our aerospace segment was $45 million, of which we expect approximately 95 percent to be filled in 2010. our backlog for our aerospace segment on december 31, 2008 was $68 million. commercial segment standard commercial segment products are typically shipped between a few days and three months after receipt of order. therefore, the backlog of such orders is not indicative of probable revenues in any future 12-month period. patents and trademarks we own a portfolio of patents, patents pending and trademarks. we also license various patents and trademarks. patents for individual products extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. trademark rights may potentially extend for longer periods of time and are dependent upon national laws and use of the marks. all capitalized product names throughout this document are trademarks owned by, or licensed to, us or our subsidiaries. although these have been of value and are expected to continue to be of value in the future, we do not consider any single patent or trademark, except for the teleflex and arrow brands, to be essential to the operation of our business. suppliers and materials materials used in the manufacture of our products are purchased from a large number of suppliers in diverse geographic locations. we are not dependent on any single supplier for a substantial amount of the materials used or components supplied for our overall operations. most of the materials and components we use are available from multiple sources, and where practical, we attempt to identify alternative suppliers. volatility in commodity markets, particularly steel and plastic resins, can have a significant impact on the cost of producing certain of our products. we cannot be assured of successfully passing these cost increases through to all of our customers, particularly original equipment manufacturers. research and development we are engaged in both internal and external research and development in our medical, aerospace and commercial segments. nearly 80% of our research and development costs occur in our medical business in connection with our efforts to bring innovative new products to the markets we serve, and to enhance the clinical value, ease of use, safety and reliability of our existing product lines. our research and development efforts support our strategic objectives to provide safe and effective products that reduce infections, improve patient and clinician safety, enhance patient outcomes and enable less invasive procedures. research and development in our aerospace and commercial businesses is focused on the development of lighter, more durable and more automated systems and products that facilitate cargo loading and containment on commercial aircraft and improve the performance of recreational boats. we also acquire or license products and technologies that are consistent with our strategic objectives and enhance our ability to provide a full range of product and service options to our customers. seasonality portions of our revenues, particularly in the commercial and medical segments, are subject to seasonal fluctuations. revenues in the marine aftermarket generally increase in the second quarter as boat owners prepare their watercraft for the upcoming season. incidence of flu and other disease patterns as well as the frequency of elective medical procedures affect revenues related to disposable medical products. 11 employees we employed approximately 12,700 full-time and temporary employees at december 31, 2009. of these employees, approximately 3,900 were employed in the united states and 8,800 in countries outside of the united states. less than 8% percent of our employees in the united states were covered by union contracts. we have government-mandated collective-bargaining arrangements or union contracts that cover employees in other countries. we believe we have good relationships with our employees. investor information we are subject to the reporting requirements of the securities exchange act of 1934. therefore, we file reports, proxy statements and other information with the securities and exchange commission (sec). such reports, proxy statements, and other information may be obtained by visiting the public reference room of the sec at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549 or by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. in addition, the sec maintains an internet site ( http://www.sec.gov ) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec. you can access financial and other information in the investors section of our website which can be accessed at www.teleflex.com . we make available through our website, free of charge, copies of our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed or furnished under section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing or furnishing such material to the sec. the information on our website is not part of this annual report on form 10-k. the reference to our website address is intended to be an inactive textual reference only. we are a delaware corporation incorporated in 1943. our executive offices are located at 155 south limerick road, limerick, pa 19468. our telephone number is (610) 948-5100. executive officers the names and ages of all of our executive officers as of february 24, 2010 and the positions and offices held by each such officer are as follows: name age positions and offices with company jeffrey p. black 50 chairman, chief executive officer and director richard a. meier 50 executive vice president and chief financial officer laurence g. miller 55 executive vice president, general counsel and secretary r. ernest waaser 53 president medical john suddarth 50 president aerospace and commercial vince northfield 46 executive vice president, global operations medical mr. black has been chairman since may 2006, chief executive officer since may 2002 and president since december 2000. he has been a director since november 2002. mr. black was president of the teleflex industrial group from july 2000 to december 2000 and president of teleflex fluid systems from january 1999 to july 2000. mr. meier joined teleflex as executive vice president and chief financial officer in january 2010. prior to joining teleflex, mr. meier held various executive-level positions with advanced medical optics, inc., a global ophthalmic medical device company, from april 2002 to may 2009. he most recently served as president and chief operating officer of advanced medical optics from november 2007 to may 2009. 12 mr. miller has been executive vice president, general counsel and secretary since february 2008. from november 2004 to february 2008, mr. miller was senior vice president, general counsel and secretary. from november 2001 until november 2004, he was senior vice president and associate general counsel for the food support services division of aramark corporation, a diversified management services company providing food, refreshment, facility and other support services for a variety of organizations. mr. waaser has been the president of teleflex medical since october 2006. prior to joining teleflex, mr. waaser served as president and chief executive officer of hill-rom, inc., a manufacturer and provider of products and services for the healthcare industry, including patient room equipment, therapeutic wound and pulmonary care products, biomedical equipment services and communications systems, from 2001 to 2005. mr. suddarth has been the president of our aerospace and commercial segments since march 2009. from july 2004 to march 2009, mr. suddarth was the president of teleflex aerospace. from 2003 to 2004, mr. suddarth was the president of techsonic industries inc., a former subsidiary of teleflex that manufactured underwater sonar and video viewing equipment, which was divested in 2004. mr. northfield has been the executive vice president for global operations, teleflex medical since september 2008. from 2005 to 2008, mr. northfield was the president of teleflex commercial. from 2004 to 2005, mr. northfield was the president of teleflex automotive and the vice president of strategic development. mr. northfield held the position of vice president of strategic development from 2001 to 2004. our officers are elected annually by the board of directors. each officer serves at the pleasure of the board until their respective successors have been elected. 13 item 1a. risk factors we are subject to risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. these risks include, but are not limited to the following: we face significant uncertainty in the industry due to government health care reform. political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the health care industry to fundamental changes. we anticipate that the current presidential administration, congress and certain state legislatures will continue to review and assess alternative health care delivery systems and payment methods with an objective of reducing health care costs and expanding access. the uncertainties regarding the final legislation and its implementation could continue to have an adverse effect on our customers purchasing decisions regarding our products and services. any legislation enacted could represent opportunities and challenges. the potential exists that medicare and medicaid reimbursement in a variety of health care settings could be negatively impacted. additionally, proposals to tax the sale of medical device technologies are being considered in congress. at this juncture in the legislative process, it is not possible to determine the final magnitude of the tax or its precise structure and implementation. however, should a medical device manufacturers tax be enacted into law, its impact, along with the impact of health care reform to medicare and medicaid reimbursement as well as other aspects of the various reform plans to our industry, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. at this time, we cannot predict with certainty which, if any, health care reform proposals will be adopted, when they may be adopted or what impact they may have on us. customers in our medical segment depend on third party reimbursement and the failure of healthcare programs to provide reimbursement or the reduction in levels of reimbursement for our medical products could adversely affect our medical segment. demand for some of our medical products is affected by the extent to which government healthcare programs and private health insurers reimburse our customers for patients medical expenses in the countries where we do business. internationally, medical reimbursement systems vary significantly, with medical centers in some countries having fixed budgets, regardless of the level of patient treatment. other countries require application for, and approval of, government or third party reimbursement. without both favorable coverage determinations by, and the financial support of, government and third party insurers, the market for some of our medical products could be adversely affected. we cannot be sure that third party payors will maintain the current level of reimbursement to our customers for use of our existing products. adverse coverage determinations or any reduction in the amount of reimbursement could harm our business. in addition, as a result of their purchasing power, third party payors often seek discounts, price reductions or other incentives from medical products suppliers. our provision of such pricing concessions could negatively impact our revenues and product margins. much of our business is subject to extensive government regulation, which may require us to incur significant expenses to ensure compliance; our failure to comply with those regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition numerous national and local government agencies in a number of countries regulate our products. the u.s. food and drug administration ( fda ) and government agencies in other countries regulate the approval, manufacturing and sale and marketing of many of our medical products. the u.s. federal aviation administration and the european aviation safety agency regulate the manufacture and sale of some of our aerospace products and licenses for the operation of our repair stations. failure to comply with applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines could lead to manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages, delays in product manufacturing, product seizures, recalls, operating restrictions, withdrawal of required licenses, prohibitions against exporting of products to, or importing products from countries outside the united states. in addition, civil and criminal penalties, including exclusion under medicaid or medicare, could result from regulatory 14 violations. any one or more of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the fda and certain foreign governmental authorities, can be costly and time consuming, and approvals might not be granted for future products on a timely basis, if at all. the regulatory approval process may result in delayed realization of product revenues or in substantial additional costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our medical segment facilities are subject to periodic inspection by the fda and other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities, which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to certain regulations, including testing, quality control and documentation procedures. on october 11, 2007, arrow international received a corporate warning letter from the fda, which expresses concerns with arrow quality systems, including complaint handling, corrective and preventive action, process and design validation and inspection and training procedures. while we are working with the fda to resolve these issues, our efforts to address the issues raised in the warning letter have required and may continue to require the dedication of significant internal and external resources. there can be no assurance regarding the length of time or cost it will take us to resolve these issues to the satisfaction of the fda. in addition, if our remedial actions are not satisfactory to the fda, we may need to devote additional financial and human resources to our efforts, and the fda may take further regulatory actions against us. these actions may include seizing our product inventory, obtaining a court injunction against further marketing of our products, assessing civil monetary penalties or imposing a consent decree on us, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are also subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare pricing and fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback and false claims laws. violations of these laws may be punishable by criminal or civil sanctions, including substantial fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs. in addition, we are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things: the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; and the health and safety of our employees. these laws and government regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or will not adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. moreover, we may become subject to additional environmental claims, which may include claims for personal injury or cleanup, based on our past, present or future business activities, which could also adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our strategic initiatives may not produce the intended growth in revenue and operating income. we have disclosed operational strategies and initiatives. these strategies include making significant investments to achieve revenue growth and margin improvement targets. if we do not achieve the expected benefits from these investments or otherwise fail to execute on our strategic initiatives, we may not achieve the growth improvement we are targeting and our results of operations may be adversely affected. in addition, as part of our strategy for growth, we have made and may continue to make acquisitions and divestitures and enter into strategic alliances such as joint ventures and joint development agreements. however, we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions or integrate acquisitions successfully, and our 15 strategic alliances may not prove to be successful. in this regard, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies and the diversion of management attention from other business concerns. although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in any particular transaction, there can be no assurance that we will properly ascertain all such risks. in addition, prior acquisitions have resulted, and future acquisitions could result, in the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness and other expenses. future acquisitions may also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities. there can be no assurance that difficulties encountered with acquisitions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may not be successful in achieving expected operating efficiencies and sustaining or improving operating expense reductions, and may experience business disruptions, associated with announced restructuring, realignment and cost reduction activities. over the past few years we have announced several restructuring, realignment and cost reduction initiatives, including significant realignments of our businesses, employee terminations and product rationalizations. while we have started to realize the efficiencies of these actions, these activities may not produce the full efficiency and cost reduction benefits we expect. further, such benefits may be realized later than expected, and the ongoing costs of implementing these measures may be greater than anticipated. if these measures are not successful or sustainable, we may undertake additional realignment and cost reduction efforts, which could result in future charges. moreover, our ability to achieve our other strategic goals and business plans may be adversely affected and we could experience business disruptions with customers and elsewhere if our restructuring and realignment efforts prove ineffective. our failure to successfully develop new products could adversely affect our results. the medical device industry is characterized by rapid product development and technological advances. in addition, while our products for the aerospace and commercial industries generally have longer life cycles, many of those products require changes in design or other enhancements to meet the evolving needs of our customers. the future success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability to design and manufacture new competitive products and to enhance existing products. our product development efforts may require substantial investment by us. there can be no assurance that unforeseen problems will not occur with respect to the development, performance or market acceptance of new technologies or products, such as the inability to: identify viable new products; obtain adequate intellectual property protection; gain market acceptance of new products; or successfully obtain regulatory approvals. moreover, we may not otherwise be able to successfully develop and market new products or enhance existing products. our failure to successfully develop and market new products or enhance existing products could reduce our revenues and margins, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability, warranty, recall and other claims that may be brought against us. our businesses expose us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture and marketing of our products. in particular, our medical device products are often used in surgical and intensive care settings with seriously ill patients. many of these products are designed to be implanted in the human body for varying periods of time, and component failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks with respect to these or other products we manufacture or sell could result in an unsafe condition or injury to, or death of, the patient. in addition, our products for the 16 aerospace and commercial industries are used in potentially hazardous environments. although we carry product liability insurance we may be exposed to product liability and warranty claims in the event that our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected or the use of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury and/or property damage. accordingly, we could experience material warranty or product liability losses in the future and incur significant costs to defend these claims. in addition, if any of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective, we may be required to participate in a recall of that product if the defect or the alleged defect relates to safety, and we may experience lost sales and be exposed to legal and reputational risk. product liability, warranty and recall costs may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we also are party to various lawsuits and claims arising in the normal course of business involving contracts, intellectual property, import and export regulations, employment and environmental matters. the defense of these lawsuits may divert our management attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. in addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. while we do not believe that any litigation in which we are currently engaged would have such an adverse effect, the outcome of litigation, including regulatory matters, is often difficult to predict, and we cannot assure that the outcome of pending or future litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we have substantial debt obligations that could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. as of december 31, 2009, our outstanding indebtedness was approximately $1.2 billion. we will be required to use a significant portion of our operating cash flow to reduce our indebtedness over the next few years. as a result, cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments and dividends may be limited. our indebtedness may also subject us to greater vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and increase our vulnerability to increases in interest rates because a portion of our indebtedness bears interest at floating rates. our senior credit facility and agreements with the holders of our senior notes, which we refer to below as our senior debt facilities, impose certain operating and financial covenants that could limit our ability to, among other things: incur debt; create liens; consolidate, merge or dispose of assets; make investments; engage in acquisitions pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of our capital stock; and enter into derivative agreements to manage exposure to changes in interest rates. in addition, the terms of our senior debt facilities require us to comply with a number of covenants, including covenants that require us to maintain specified financial ratios, which are described in more detail in item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure that, in the event of a significant deterioration of our operating results, we will be able to satisfy those ratios. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our senior debt facilities. if we fail to maintain compliance with these covenants and cannot obtain a waiver from the lenders under the senior debt facilities, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the senior debt facilities to be immediately due and payable and 17 terminate all commitments to extend further credit under the facilities. if the lenders under the senior debt facilities accelerate the repayment of borrowings and we are not able to obtain financing to enable repayment, we likely would have to liquidate significant assets, which nevertheless may not be sufficient to repay our borrowings. we are subject to risks associated with our non-u.s. operations. although no material concentration of our manufacturing operations exists in any single country, we have significant manufacturing operations outside the united states, including operations conducted through entities that are not wholly-owned. as of, and for the year ended, december 31, 2009, approximately 41% of our total fixed assets and 46% of our total net revenues were attributable to products directly distributed from our operations outside the u.s. our international operations are subject to varying degrees of risk inherent in doing business outside the u.s., including: exchange controls, currency restrictions and fluctuations in currency values; trade protection measures; import or export requirements; subsidies or increased access to capital for firms who are currently or may emerge as competitors in countries in which we have operations; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; restrictions and taxes related to the repatriation of foreign earnings; differing labor regulations; differing protection of intellectual property; unsettled political and economic conditions and possible terrorist attacks against american interests. these and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our business, results of operations and financial condition generally. foreign currency exchange rate, commodity price and interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. we expect revenue from products manufactured in, and sold into, non-u.s. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our net revenue. our consolidated financial statements reflect translation of financial statements denominated in non-u.s. currencies to u.s. dollars, our reporting currency. when the u.s. dollar strengthens or weakens in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries where we sell or manufacture our products, such as the euro, our u.s. dollar-reported revenue and income will fluctuate. although we have entered into forward contracts with several major financial institutions to hedge a portion of projected cash flows denominated in non-functional currency in order to reduce the effects of currency rate fluctuations, changes in the relative values of currencies may, in some instances, have a significant effect on our results of operations. many of our products have significant steel and plastic resin content. we also use quantities of other commodities, including copper and zinc. although we monitor our exposure to these commodity price increases as an integral part of our overall risk management program, volatility in the prices of these commodities could increase the costs of our products and services. we may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers and this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. 18 fluctuations in our effective tax rate and changes to tax laws may adversely affect our results. as a company with significant operations outside of the u.s., we are subject to taxation in numerous countries, states and other jurisdictions. as a result, our effective tax rate is derived from a combination of applicable tax rates in the various countries, states and other jurisdictions in which we operate. in preparing our financial statements, we estimate the amount of tax that will become payable in each of the countries, states and other jurisdictions in which we operate. our effective tax rate, however, may be lower or higher than experienced in the past due to numerous factors, including a change in the mix of our profitability from country to country, changes in accounting for income taxes and changes in tax laws. any of these factors could cause us to experience an effective tax rate significantly different from previous periods or our current expectations, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. in addition, unfavorable results of tax audits and changes in tax laws in jurisdictions in which we operate, among other things, could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. an interruption in our manufacturing operations may adversely affect our business. many of our key products across all three of our business segments are manufactured at single locations, with limited alternate facilities. if an event occurs that results in damage to one or more of our facilities, it may not be possible to timely manufacture the relevant products at previous levels or at all. in addition, with respect to our medical segment, due to the stringent regulations and requirements of the fda and other regulatory authorities regarding the manufacture of our products, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement sources for certain components or materials. a reduction or interruption in manufacturing, or an inability to secure alternative sources of raw materials or components that are acceptable to us, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. further adverse developments in general domestic and global economic conditions combined with a continuation of volatile global credit markets could adversely impact our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. we are subject to risks arising from adverse changes in general domestic and global economic conditions, including recession or economic slowdown and disruption of credit markets. the credit and capital markets experienced extreme volatility and disruption over the past year, leading to recessionary conditions and depressed levels of consumer and commercial spending. these recessionary conditions have caused customers to reduce, modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and services. while recent indicators suggest modest improvement in the united states and global economy, we cannot predict the timing or extent of any economic recovery or the extent to which our customers will return to more normalized spending behaviors. if the recessionary conditions continue or worsen, our customers may terminate existing purchase orders or reduce the volume of products or services they purchase from us in the future. adverse economic and financial market conditions may also cause our suppliers to be unable to meet their commitments to us or may cause suppliers to make changes in the credit terms they extend to us, such as shortening the required payment period for outstanding accounts receivable or reducing the maximum amount of trade credit available to us. these types of actions by our suppliers could significantly affect our liquidity and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. if we are unable to successfully anticipate changing economic and financial market conditions, we may be unable to effectively plan for and respond to those changes, and our business could be negatively affected. in addition, the amount of goodwill and other intangible assets on our consolidated balance sheet have increased significantly in recent years, primarily as a result of the acquisition of arrow international in 2007. adverse economic and financial market conditions may result in future charges to recognize impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. 19 our technology is important to our success, and our failure to protect this technology could put us at a competitive disadvantage. because many of our products rely on proprietary technology, we believe that the development and protection of our intellectual property rights is important, though not essential, to the future success of our business. in addition to relying on our patents, trademarks and copyrights, we rely on confidentiality agreements with employees and other measures to protect our know-how and trade secrets. despite our efforts to protect proprietary rights, unauthorized parties or competitors may copy or otherwise obtain and use these products or technology. the steps we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of this technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the u.s. moreover, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop the know-how and trade secrets or develop better technology than ours or that current and former employees, contractors and other parties will not breach confidentiality agreements, misappropriate proprietary information and copy or otherwise obtain and use our information and proprietary technology without authorization or otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. our inability to protect our proprietary technology could result in competitive harm that could adversely affect our business. we depend upon relationships with physicians and other health care professionals. the research and development of some of our products is dependent on our maintaining strong working relationships with physicians and other health care professionals. we rely on these professionals to provide us with considerable knowledge and experience regarding our products and the development of our products. physicians assist us as researchers, product consultants, inventors and as public speakers. if we fail to maintain our working relationships with physicians and receive the benefits of their knowledge, advice and input, our products may not be developed and marketed in line with the needs and expectations of the professionals who use and support our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our workforce covered by collective bargaining and similar agreements could cause interruptions in our provision of services. approximately 13% of our net revenues are generated by operations for which a significant part of our workforce is covered by collective bargaining agreements and similar agreements in foreign jurisdictions. it is likely that a portion of our workforce will remain covered by collective bargaining and similar agreements for the foreseeable future. strikes or work stoppages could occur that would adversely impact our relationships with our customers and our ability to conduct our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk we are exposed to certain financial risks, specifically fluctuations in market interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and, to a lesser extent, commodity prices. we use derivative financial instruments to manage or reduce the impact of some of these risks. all instruments are entered into for other than trading purposes. we are also exposed to changes in the market traded price of our common stock as it influences the valuation of stock options and their effect on earnings. interest rate risk we are exposed to changes in interest rates as a result of our borrowing activities and our cash balances. an interest rate swap is used to manage a portion of our interest rate risk. the table below is an analysis of the amortization and related interest rates by year of maturity for our fixed and variable rate debt obligations. variable interest rates shown below are weighted average rates of the debt portfolio based on december 31, 2009 rates. for the swap, the notional amount and the related interest rate is shown by year of maturity. the fair value, net of tax, of the interest rate swap as of december 31, 2009 was a loss of $17.6 million reflected in accumulated other comprehensive income. year of maturity 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 thereafter total (dollars in thousands) fixed rate debt $ $ 145,000 $ 130,000 $ $ 136,500 $ 90,100 $ 501,600 average interest rate 7.4% 7.6% 7.9% 8.2% 7.7% variable rate debt $ 4,008 $ 51,211 $ 639,680 $ $ $ $ 694,899 average interest rate 6.5% 1.5% 1.6% 1.6% amount subject to swaps: variable to fixed (1) $ 450,000 average rate to be received 3 months usd libor average rate to be paid 4.75% (2 ) (1) the notional value of the interest rate swap was $600 million at inception and amortizes down to a notional value of $350 million at maturity in 2012. as of december 31, 2009, the notional value of the interest rate swap was $450 million. (2) the all in cost of the $450 million swapped debt is 4.75% plus the applicable spread over libor, which at december 31, 2009 was 125 basis points. a 1.0% change in variable interest rates would adversely or positively impact our expected net earnings by approximately $1.8 million, for the year ended december 31, 2010. foreign currency risk we are exposed to fluctuations in market values of transactions in currencies other than the functional currencies of certain subsidiaries. we have entered into forward contracts with several major financial institutions to hedge a portion of projected cash flows from these exposures. these are primarily contracts to buy or sell a foreign currency against the u.s. dollar. the fair value of the open forward contracts as of december 31, 2009 was a gain of $0.3 million. the following table presents our open forward currency contracts as of december 31, 2009, which mature in 2010. forward contract notional amounts presented below are expressed in the stated currencies (in thousands). the total notional amount for all contracts translates to approximately $74.8 million. 51 forward currency contracts: buy/(sell) japanese yen (546,000 ) united states dollars (30,600 ) south african rand (24,000 ) euros (13,979 ) mexican peso 287,545 czech koruna 155,400 swedish krona 24,786 malaysian ringgits 50,286 canadian dollars 6,482 singapore dollars 8,304 a strengthening of 10% in the value of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies would, on a combined basis, adversely impact the translation of our non-us subsidiary net earnings and transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of certain subsidiaries by approximately $9.5 million, for the year ended december 31, 2010.risk factors. 10 table of contents competition medical segment the medical device industry is highly competitive. we compete with many companies, ranging from small start-up enterprises to companies that are larger and more established than us with access to significant financial resources. furthermore, new product development and technological change characterize the market in which we compete. we must continue to develop and acquire new products and technologies for our medical segment businesses to remain competitive. we believe that we compete primarily on the basis of clinical superiority and innovative features that enhance patient benefit, product reliability, performance, customer and sales support, and cost-effectiveness. competitors of our medical segment include c. r. bard, inc., covidien and carefusion. aerospace and commercial segments the businesses within our aerospace and commercial segments generally face significant competition from competitors of varying sizes. we believe that our competitive position depends on the technical competence and creative ability of our engineering personnel, the know-how and skill of our manufacturing personnel, and the strength and scope of our sales, service and distribution networks. competitors of the businesses with our aerospace segment include goodrich corporation, aar corp and driessen aerospace group. competition for our commercial business tends to be fragmented. sales and marketing medical segment our medical products are sold directly to hospitals, healthcare providers, distributors and to original equipment manufacturers of medical devices through our own sales forces and through independent representatives and independent distributor networks. aerospace and commercial segments products sold to the aerospace market are sold through our own field representatives and distributors. the majority of our commercial segment products are sold through a direct sales force of field representatives and technical specialists. marine driver controls and engine and drive parts are sold directly to boat builders and engine manufacturers as well as through distributors, dealers and retail outlets to reach recreational boaters. backlog medical segment most of our medical products are sold to hospitals or healthcare providers on orders calling for delivery within a few days or weeks, with longer order times for products sold to medical device manufacturers. therefore, the backlog of our medical segment orders is not indicative of probable revenues in any future 12-month period. aerospace segment as of december 31, 2010, our backlog of firm orders for our aerospace segment was $74 million, of which we expect approximately 100 percent to be filled in 2011. our backlog for our aerospace segment on december 31, 2009 was $35 million. 11 table of contents commercial segment standard commercial segment products are typically shipped between a few days and three months after receipt of order. therefore, the backlog of such orders is not indicative of probable revenues in any future 12-month period. patents and trademarks we own a portfolio of patents, patents pending and trademarks. we also license various patents and trademarks. patents for individual products extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. trademark rights may potentially extend for longer periods of time and are dependent upon national laws and use of the marks. all capitalized product names throughout this document are trademarks owned by, or licensed to, us or our subsidiaries. although these have been of value and are expected to continue to be of value in the future, we do not consider any single patent or trademark, except for the teleflex and arrow brands, to be essential to the operation of our business. suppliers and materials materials used in the manufacture of our products are purchased from a large number of suppliers in diverse geographic locations. we are not dependent on any single supplier for a substantial amount of the materials used or components supplied for our overall operations. most of the materials and components we use are available from multiple sources, and where practical, we attempt to identify alternative suppliers. volatility in commodity markets, particularly steel and plastic resins, can have a significant impact on the cost of producing certain of our products. we cannot be assured of successfully passing these cost increases through to all of our customers, particularly original equipment manufacturers. research and development we are engaged in both internal and external research and development in our medical, aerospace and commercial segments. our research and development costs in our medical business principally relate to our efforts to bring innovative new products to the markets we serve, and our efforts to enhance the clinical value, ease of use, safety and reliability of our existing product lines. our research and development efforts support our strategic objectives to provide safe and effective products that reduce infections, improve patient and clinician safety, enhance patient outcomes and enable less invasive procedures. research and development in our aerospace and commercial businesses is focused on the development of lighter, more durable and more automated systems and products that facilitate cargo loading and containment on commercial aircraft and improve the performance of recreational boats. we also acquire or license products and technologies that are consistent with our strategic objectives and enhance our ability to provide a full range of product and service options to our customers. seasonality portions of our revenues, particularly in the commercial and medical segments, are subject to seasonal fluctuations. revenues in the marine aftermarket generally increase in the second quarter as boat owners prepare their watercraft for the upcoming season. incidence of flu and other disease patterns as well as the frequency of elective medical procedures affect revenues related to disposable medical products. employees we employed approximately 12,500 full-time and temporary employees at december 31, 2010. of these employees, approximately 3,600 were employed in the united states and 8,900 in countries outside of the united states. less than 8% percent of our employees in the united states were covered by union contracts. we 12 table of contents also have collective-bargaining arrangements or union contracts that cover employees in other countries. we believe we have good relationships with our employees. investor information we are subject to the reporting requirements of the securities exchange act of 1934. therefore, we file reports, proxy statements and other information with the securities and exchange commission (sec). copies of such reports, proxy statements, and other information may be obtained by visiting the public reference room of the sec at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549 or by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. in addition, the sec maintains an internet site ( http://www.sec.gov ) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec. you can access financial and other information about us in the investors section of our website, which can be accessed at www.teleflex.com . we make available through our website, free of charge, copies of our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to the sec under section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing or furnishing such material to the sec. the information on our website is not part of this annual report on form 10-k. the reference to our website address is intended to be an inactive textual reference only. we are a delaware corporation incorporated in 1943. our executive offices are located at 155 south limerick road, limerick, pa 19468. our telephone number is (610) 948-5100. executive officers the names and ages of all of our executive officers as of february 1, 2011 and the positions and offices held by each such officer are as follows: name age positions and offices with company benson f. smith 63 chairman, chief executive officer and director richard a. meier 51 executive vice president and chief financial officer laurence g. miller 56 executive vice president, general counsel and secretary john suddarth 51 president aerospace, commercial and medical oem vince northfield 47 executive vice president, global operations medical mr. smith was appointed our chairman, president and chief executive officer in january 2011, and has served as a director since april 2005. prior to january 2011, mr. smith was the managing partner of sales research group, a research and consulting organization, and also served as the chief executive officer of bfs associates llc, which specialized in strategic planning and venture investing. prior to that, mr. smith worked for c.r. bard, inc., a company specializing in medical devices, for approximately 25 years, where he held various executive and senior level positions. most recently, mr. smith served as president and chief operating officer of c.r. bard from 1994 to 1998. mr. meier joined teleflex as executive vice president and chief financial officer in january 2010. prior to joining teleflex, mr. meier held various executive-level positions with advanced medical optics, inc., a global ophthalmic medical device company, from april 2002 to may 2009, including president and chief operating officer from november 2007 to may 2009. mr. miller has been executive vice president, general counsel and secretary since february 2008. from november 2004 to february 2008, mr. miller was senior vice president, general counsel and secretary. from november 2001 until november 2004, he was senior vice president and associate general counsel for the 13 table of contents food support services division of aramark corporation, a diversified management services company providing food, refreshment, facility and other support services for a variety of organizations. mr. suddarth has been the president of our aerospace and commercial segments since march 2009. in december 2010, mr. suddarth also assumed responsibility for the oem division of our medical segment. from july 2004 to march 2009, mr. suddarth was the president of teleflex aerospace. from 2003 to 2004, mr. suddarth was the president of techsonic industries inc., a former subsidiary of teleflex that manufactured underwater sonar and video viewing equipment, which was divested in 2004. mr. northfield, who was our executive vice president for global operations, teleflex medical since september 2008 advised us on february 15, 2011 that he had elected to resign from this position, effective june 30, 2011. from 2005 to 2008, mr. northfield was the president of teleflex commercial. from 2004 to 2005, mr. northfield was the president of teleflex automotive and the vice president of strategic development. mr. northfield held the position of vice president of strategic development from 2001 to 2004. our officers are elected annually by the board of directors. each officer serves at the pleasure of the board until their respective successors have been elected. item 1a. risk factors we are subject to risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. these risks include, but are not limited to the following: our medical segment is subject to extensive government regulation, which may require us to incur significant expenses to ensure compliance. our failure to comply with those regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. the products within our medical segment are classified as medical devices and are subject to extensive regulation in the united states by the fda and by comparable government agencies in other countries. the regulations govern the development, design, approval, manufacturing, labeling, importing and exporting and sale and marketing of many of our medical products. these regulations are also subject to future change. failure to comply with applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines could lead to manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages, delays in product manufacturing, product seizures, recalls, operating restrictions, withdrawal or suspension of required licenses, and prohibitions against exporting of products to, or importing products from, countries outside the united states. we could be required to expend significant financial and human resources to remediate failures to comply with applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines. see, for example the risk factor below titled, if we are unable to resolve issues raised in our fda corporate warning letter, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, our relationship with the fda and the perception of our products by hospitals, clinics and physicians . in addition, civil and criminal penalties, including exclusion under medicaid or medicare, could result from regulatory violations. any one or more of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in the united states, before we can market a new medical device, or a new use of, or claim for, or significant modification to, an existing product, we must first receive either 510(k) clearance or approval of a premarket approval, or pma, application from the fda, unless an exemption applies. in the 510(k) clearance process, the fda must determine that our proposed product is substantially equivalent to a device legally on the market, known as a predicate device, with respect to intended use, technology and safety and effectiveness, in order to clear the proposed device for marketing. the pma pathway requires us to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the device based, in part, on data obtained in human clinical trials. similarly, most major markets for medical devices outside the united states also require clearance, approval or compliance with certain standards before a product can be commercially marketed. the process of obtaining regulatory clearances and approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the fda and certain foreign governmental authorities, can be costly and time consuming, and clearances and approvals might not be granted for new products on a timely basis, if at all. in addition, once a device has been cleared or approved, a new clearance or approval may 14 table of contents be required before the device may be modified or its labeling changed. furthermore, the fda is currently reviewing its 510(k) clearance process, and may make the process more rigorous, which could require us to generate additional clinical or other data, and expend more time and effort, in obtaining future 510(k) product clearance. the regulatory clearance and approval process may result in, among other things, delayed realization of product revenues, in substantial additional costs or in limitations on indicated uses of products, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. even after a product has received marketing approval or clearance, such product approval or clearance by the fda can be withdrawn or limited due to unforeseen problems with the device or integrity issues relating to the marketing application. later discovery of violations of fda requirements for medical devices could result in fda enforcement actions, including warning letters, fines, delays or suspensions of regulatory clearances, product seizures or recalls, injunctions, advisories or other field actions, and/or operating restrictions. medical devices are cleared or approved for one or more specific intended uses. promoting a device for an off-label use could result in fda enforcement action. furthermore, our medical segment facilities are subject to periodic inspection by the fda and other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities, which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to certain regulations, including the quality system regulation which requires testing, complaint handling, periodic audits, design controls, quality control testing and documentation procedures. fda may also inspect for compliance with medical device reporting regulation, which requires manufacturers to submit reports to fda of certain adverse events or malfunctions, and whether the facilities have submitted notifications of product recalls or other corrective actions in accordance with fda regulations. issues identified during such periodic inspections may result in warning letters, manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages, product seizures or recalls, fines and delays in product manufacturing, and may require significant resources to resolve. customers in our medical segment depend on third party coverage and reimbursement and the failure of healthcare programs to provide coverage and reimbursement, or the reduction in levels of reimbursement, for our medical products could adversely affect our medical segment. the ability of our customers to obtain coverage and reimbursements for our medical products is important to our medical segment. demand for many of our existing and new medical products is, and will continue to be, affected by the extent to which government healthcare programs and private health insurers reimburse our customers for patients medical expenses in the countries where we do business. even when we develop or acquire a promising new product, we may find limited demand for the product unless reimbursement approval is obtained from private and governmental third party payors. internationally, healthcare reimbursement systems vary significantly, with medical centers in some countries having fixed budgets, regardless of the level of patient treatment. other countries require application for, and approval of, government or third party reimbursement. without both favorable coverage determinations by, and the financial support of, government and third party insurers, the market for many of our medical products could be adversely affected. we cannot be sure that third party payors will maintain the current level of coverage and reimbursement to our customers for use of our existing products. adverse coverage determinations or any reduction in the amount of reimbursement could harm our business by altering the extent to which potential customers select our products and the prices they are willing to pay or otherwise. in addition, as a result of their purchasing power and continually rising healthcare costs, third party payors are implementing cost cutting measures such as discounts, price reductions, limitations on coverage and reimbursement for new medical technologies and procedures, or other incentives from medical products suppliers. these trends could lead to pressure to reduce prices for our existing products and potential new products and could cause a decrease in the size of the market or a potential increase in competition that could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 table of contents we may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability and warranty claims that may be brought against us and recalls, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. furthermore, as a medical device company, we face an inherent risk of damage to our reputation if one or more of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective. our businesses expose us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture and marketing of our products. in particular, our medical device products are often used in surgical and intensive care settings with seriously ill patients. many of these products are designed to be implanted in the human body for varying periods of time, and component failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks with respect to these or other products we manufacture or sell could result in an unsafe condition or injury to, or death of, the patient. as a result, we face an inherent risk of damage to our reputation if one or more of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective. in addition, our products for the aerospace and commercial industries are used in potentially hazardous environments. although we carry product liability insurance, we may be exposed to product liability and warranty claims in the event that our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected or the use of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury and/or property damage. the outcome of litigation, particularly any class-action lawsuits, is difficult to quantify. plaintiffs often seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, including punitive damages. the magnitude of the potential losses relating to these lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time and the cost to defend against any such litigation may be significant. accordingly, we could experience material warranty or product liability losses in the future and incur significant costs to defend these claims. in addition, if any of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective, we may voluntarily participate, or be required by applicable regulators, to participate in a recall of that product if the defect or the alleged defect relates to safety. in the event of a recall, we may experience lost sales and be exposed to individual or class-action litigation claims and reputational risk. product liability, warranty and recall costs may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse laws, regulation and enforcement; our failure to comply with those laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial conditions. we are also subject to healthcare fraud and abuse regulation and enforcement by the federal government and the states and foreign governments in which we conduct our business. the laws that may affect our ability to operate include: the federal healthcare programs anti-kickback law, which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as the medicare and medicaid programs; federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from medicare, medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent; the federal health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996 ( hipaa ), which created federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters; and state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers. 16 table of contents if our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, the exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs and imprisonment, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. the risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. further, the recently enacted patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education affordability reconciliation act (collectively, the healthcare reform act ), among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback and criminal health care fraud statutes. a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. in addition, the healthcare reform act provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the false claims statutes. any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management attention from the operation of our business. the healthcare reform act also imposes new reporting and disclosure requirements on device manufacturers for any transfer of value made or distributed to prescribers and other healthcare providers, effective march 30, 2013. such information will be made publicly available in a searchable format beginning september 30, 2013. in addition, device manufacturers will also be required to report and disclose any investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members during the preceding calendar year. failure to submit required information may result in civil monetary penalties of up to an aggregate of $150,000 per year (and up to an aggregate of $1 million per year for knowing failures ), for all payments, transfers of value or ownership or investment interests not reported in an annual submission. in addition, there has been a recent trend of increased federal and state regulation of payments made to physicians for marketing. some states, such as california, massachusetts and vermont, mandate implementation of commercial compliance programs, along with the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation, and other remuneration to physicians. the shifting commercial compliance environment and the need to build and maintain robust and expandable systems to comply with multiple jurisdictions with different compliance and/or reporting requirements increases the possibility that a healthcare company may run afoul of one or more of the requirements. if we are unable to resolve issues raised in our fda corporate warning letter, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, our relationship with the fda and the perception of our products by hospitals, clinics and physicians. on october 11, 2007, our subsidiary arrow received a corporate warning letter from the fda. the letter expressed concerns with arrow quality systems, including complaint handling, corrective and preventive action, process and design validation, inspection and training procedures. it also advised that arrow corporate-wide program to evaluate, correct and prevent quality system issues had been deficient. our efforts to address the issues raised in the corporate warning letter have required the dedication of significant internal and external resources. we developed and implemented a comprehensive plan to correct these previously-identified regulatory issues and further improve overall quality systems. from the end of 2009 to the beginning of 2010, the fda reinspected the arrow facilities covered by the corporate warning letter and we have responded to the observations issued by the fda as a result of those inspections. communications received from the fda indicate that the fda has classified its inspection observations as voluntary action indicated, or vai. this classification signifies that the fda has concluded that no further regulatory action is required, and that any observations made during the inspections can be addressed voluntarily by us. in addition, in the third quarter of 2010, we submitted and received fda approval of all currently eligible requests 17 table of contents for certificates to foreign governments, or cfgs. we believe that the fda approval of these cfg requests is a clear indication that we have substantially corrected the quality system issues identified in the corporate warning letter. we are continuing to work with the fda to resolve all remaining issues and obtain formal closure of the corporate warning letter. while we continue to believe we have substantially remediated the issues raised in the corporate warning letter through the corrective actions taken to date, the corporate warning letter remains in place pending final resolution of all outstanding issues. if our remedial actions are not satisfactory to the fda, we may have to devote additional financial and human resources to our efforts, and the fda may take further regulatory actions against us. these actions may include seizing our product inventory, assessing civil monetary penalties or seeking an injunction against us, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. health care reform, including the recently enacted legislation, may have a material adverse effect on our industry and our results of operations. political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the health care industry to fundamental changes. in march 2010, the healthcare reform act was enacted. it substantially changes the way health care is financed by both governmental and private insurers, encourages improvements in the quality of health care items and services, and significantly impacts the u.s. pharmaceutical and medical device industries. among other things, the healthcare reform act: establishes a 2.3% deductible excise tax on any entity that manufactures or imports certain medical devices offered for sale in the united states, beginning 2013; establishes a new patient-centered outcomes research institute to oversee, identify priorities in and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research; implements payment system reforms including a national pilot program on payment bundling to encourage hospitals, physicians and other providers to improve the coordination, quality and efficiency of certain health care services through bundled payment models, beginning on or before january 1, 2013; and creates an independent payment advisory board that will submit recommendations to reduce medicare spending if projected medicare spending exceeds a specified growth rate. we currently estimate the impact of the 2.3% deductible excise tax to be approximately $16.0 million annually, beginning 2013. however, we cannot predict at this time the full impact of the healthcare reform act and/or other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. an interruption in our manufacturing operations and/or our supply of raw materials may adversely affect our business. many of our key products across all three of our business segments are manufactured at single locations, with limited alternate facilities. if an event occurs that results in damage to one or more of our facilities, it may not be possible to timely manufacture the relevant products at previous levels or at all. in addition, in the event of delays or cancellations in shipments of raw materials by our suppliers, it may not be possible to timely manufacture the affected products at previous levels or at all. furthermore, with respect to our medical segment, in the event of a disruption in our supply of certain components or materials, due to the stringent regulations and requirements of the fda and other regulatory authorities regarding the manufacture of our products, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement sources for such components or materials. a reduction or interruption in manufacturing, or an inability to secure alternative sources of raw materials or components that are acceptable to us, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 18 table of contents we depend upon relationships with physicians and other health care professionals. the research and development of some of our medical products is dependent on our maintaining strong working relationships with physicians and other health care professionals. we rely on these professionals to provide us with considerable knowledge and experience regarding our medical products and the development of our medical products. physicians assist us as researchers, product consultants, inventors and as public speakers. if we fail to maintain our working relationships with physicians and receive the benefits of their knowledge, advice and input, our medical products may not be developed and marketed in line with the needs and expectations of the professionals who use and support our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we face strong competition. our failure to successfully develop and market new products could adversely affect our results. the medical device industry across all of our different product lines, as well as in each geographic market in which our products are sold, is highly competitive. we compete with many medical device companies ranging from small start-up enterprises which might only sell a single or limited number of competitive products or which may participate only in a specific market segment, to companies that are larger and more established than us with access to significant financial and marketing resources. in addition, the medical device industry is characterized by extensive product research and development and rapid technological advances. also, while our products for the aerospace and commercial industries generally have longer life cycles, many of those products require changes in design or other enhancements to meet the evolving needs of our customers. the future success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability to design and manufacture new competitive products and to enhance existing products. our product development efforts may require substantial investment by us. there can be no assurance that unforeseen problems will not occur with respect to the development, performance or market acceptance of new technologies or products, such as the inability to: identify viable new products; obtain adequate intellectual property protection; gain market acceptance of new products; or successfully obtain regulatory approvals. moreover, we may not otherwise be able to successfully develop and market new products or enhance existing products. in addition, our competitors may currently be developing, or may develop and market in the future, technologies that are more effective than those that we develop or which may render our products obsolete. our failure to successfully develop and market new products or enhance existing products could reduce our revenues and margins, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to risks associated with our non-u.s. operations. we have significant manufacturing and distribution facilities, research and development facilities, sales personnel and customer support operations outside the united states in countries such as canada, belgium, the czech republic, france, germany, ireland, malaysia, mexico, norway and singapore. as of december 31, 2010, approximately 43% of our net property, plant and equipment was located outside the united states. in addition, approximately 50% of our net revenues (based on business unit location) were derived from operations outside the united states in the fiscal year ended december 31, 2010. approximately 71% of our full-time and temporary employees as of december 31, 2010 were employed in countries outside of the united states. 19 table of contents our international operations are subject to varying degrees of risk inherent in doing business outside the united states, including: exchange controls, currency restrictions and fluctuations in currency values; trade protection measures; potentially costly and burdensome import or export requirements; laws and business practices that favor local companies; changes in non-u.s. medical reimbursement policies and procedures; subsidies or increased access to capital for firms who are currently or may emerge as competitors in countries in which we have operations; scrutiny of foreign tax authorities which could result in significant fines, penalties and additional taxes being imposed on us; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; restrictions and taxes related to the repatriation of foreign earnings; differing labor regulations; additional u.s. and foreign government controls or regulations; difficulties in the protection of intellectual property; and unsettled political and economic conditions and possible terrorist attacks against american interests. in addition, the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (the fcpa ) and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws in non-u.s. jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-u.s. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. the fcpa also imposes accounting standards and requirements on publicly traded u.s. corporations and their foreign affiliates, which are intended to prevent the diversion of corporate funds to the payment of bribes and other improper payments, and to prevent the establishment of off books slush funds from which such improper payments can be made. because of the predominance of government-sponsored health care systems around the world, many of our customer relationships outside of the united states are with governmental entities and are therefore subject to such anti-bribery laws. our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. despite our training and compliance programs, our internal control policies and procedures may not always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our operations, involve significant management distraction and result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we also could suffer severe penalties, including criminal and civil penalties, disgorgement and other remedial measures, including further changes or enhancements to our procedures, policies and controls, as well as potential personnel changes and disciplinary actions. furthermore, we are subject to the export controls and economic embargo rules and regulations of the united states, including, but not limited to, the export administration regulations and trade sanctions against embargoed countries, which are administered by the office of foreign assets control within the department of the treasury as well as the laws and regulations administered by the department of commerce. these regulations limit our ability to market, sell, distribute or otherwise transfer our products or technology to prohibited countries or persons. while we train our employees and contractually obligate our distributors to comply with these regulations, we cannot assure you that there will not be a violation, whether knowingly or inadvertently. failure to comply with these rules and regulations may result in substantial penalties, including fines and enforcement actions and civil and/or criminal sanctions, the disgorgement of profits and the 20 table of contents imposition of a court-appointed monitor, as well as the denial of export privileges, and debarment from participation in u.s. government contracts, and may have an adverse effect on our reputation. these and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our business, results of operations and financial condition generally. further weakness in general domestic and global economic growth combined with a continuation of constrained global credit markets could adversely impact our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. we are subject to risks arising from adverse changes in general domestic and global economic conditions, including recession or economic slowdown and disruption of credit markets. the credit and capital markets experienced extreme volatility and disruption in recent periods, leading to recessionary conditions and depressed levels of consumer and commercial spending. these recessionary conditions have caused customers to reduce, modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and services. while recent indicators suggest modest improvement in the united states and global economy, we cannot predict the duration or extent of any economic recovery or the extent to which our customers will return to more normalized spending behaviors. if the recessionary conditions return, our customers may terminate existing purchase orders or reduce the volume of products or services they purchase from us in the future. adverse economic and financial market conditions may also cause our suppliers to be unable to meet their commitments to us or may cause suppliers to make changes in the credit terms they extend to us, such as shortening the required payment period for outstanding accounts receivable or reducing the maximum amount of trade credit available to us. these types of actions by our suppliers could significantly affect our liquidity and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. if we are unable to successfully anticipate changing economic and financial market conditions, we may be unable to effectively plan for and respond to those changes, and our business could be negatively affected. in addition, the amount of goodwill and other intangible assets on our consolidated balance sheet have increased significantly in recent years, primarily as a result of the acquisition of arrow international in 2007. adverse economic and financial market conditions may result in future charges to recognize impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. foreign currency exchange rate, commodity price and interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. we expect revenue from products manufactured in, and sold into, non-u.s. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our net revenue. our consolidated financial statements reflect translation of financial statements denominated in non-u.s. currencies to u.s. dollars, our reporting currency. when the u.s. dollar strengthens or weakens in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries where we sell or manufacture our products, such as the euro, our u.s. dollar-reported revenue and income will fluctuate. although we have entered into forward contracts with several major financial institutions to hedge a portion of projected cash flows denominated in non-functional currency in order to reduce the effects of currency rate fluctuations, changes in the relative values of currencies may, in some instances, have a significant effect on our results of operations. many of our products have significant plastic resin content. we also use quantities of other commodities, such as aluminum. increases in the prices of these commodities could increase the costs of our products and services. we may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers, particularly with respect to those products we sell pursuant to group purchase agreements, and this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. 21 table of contents increases in interest rates may adversely affect the financial health of our customers and suppliers and thus adversely affect their ability to buy our products and supply the components or raw materials we need, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. our strategic initiatives may not produce the intended growth in revenue and operating income. our strategies include making significant investments to achieve revenue growth and margin improvement targets. if we do not achieve the expected benefits from these investments or otherwise fail to execute on our strategic initiatives, we may not achieve the growth improvement we are targeting and our results of operations may be adversely affected. in addition, as part of our strategy for growth, we have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions and divestitures and enter into strategic alliances such as joint ventures and joint development agreements. however, we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions or integrate acquisitions successfully, and our strategic alliances may not prove to be successful. in this regard, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies and the diversion of management attention from other business concerns. although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in any particular transaction, there can be no assurance that we will properly ascertain all such risks. in addition, prior acquisitions have resulted, and future acquisitions could result, in the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness and other expenses. future acquisitions may also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities. there can be no assurance that difficulties encountered with acquisitions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may not be successful in achieving expected operating efficiencies and sustaining or improving operating expense reductions, and may experience business disruptions associated with announced restructuring, realignment and cost reduction activities. over the past few years we have announced several restructuring, realignment and cost reduction initiatives, including significant realignments of our businesses, employee terminations and product rationalizations. while we have started to realize the efficiencies of these actions, these activities may not produce the full efficiency and cost reduction benefits we expect. further, such benefits may be realized later than expected, and the ongoing costs of implementing these measures may be greater than anticipated. if these measures are not successful or sustainable, we may undertake additional realignment and cost reduction efforts, which could result in future charges. moreover, our ability to achieve our other strategic goals and business plans may be adversely affected and we could experience business disruptions with customers and elsewhere if our restructuring and realignment efforts prove ineffective. fluctuations in our effective tax rate and changes to tax laws may adversely affect our results. as a company with significant operations outside of the united states, we are subject to taxation in numerous countries, states and other jurisdictions. as a result, our effective tax rate is derived from a combination of applicable tax rates in the various countries, states and other jurisdictions in which we operate. in preparing our financial statements, we estimate the amount of tax that will become payable in each of the countries, states and other jurisdictions in which we operate. our effective tax rate may, however, be lower or higher than experienced in the past due to numerous factors, including a change in the mix of our profitability from country to country, changes in accounting for income taxes and changes in tax laws. any of these factors could cause us to experience an effective tax rate significantly different from previous periods or our current expectations, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. in addition, unfavorable results of tax audits and changes in tax laws in jurisdictions in which we operate, among other things, could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. 22 table of contents our technology is important to our success, and our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could put us at a competitive disadvantage. we rely on the patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws of the united states and other countries to protect our proprietary rights. although we own numerous u.s. and foreign patents and have applied for numerous patent applications, we cannot assure you that any pending patent applications will issue, or that any patents, issued or pending, will provide us with any competitive advantage or will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties. in addition, we rely on confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with employees and take other measures to protect our know-how and trade secrets. the steps we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of our technology by unauthorized parties or competitors who may copy or otherwise obtain and use these products or technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the united states. there is no guarantee that current and former employees, contractors and other parties will not breach their confidentiality agreements with us, misappropriate proprietary information or copy or otherwise obtain and use our information and proprietary technology without authorization or otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. moreover, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop the know-how and trade secrets or develop better technology than our own, which could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we have developed. our inability to protect our proprietary technology could result in competitive harm that could adversely affect our business. our products or processes may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to pay unexpected litigation costs or damages or prevent us from selling our products. we cannot be certain that our products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of our business, including claims of alleged infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties. any such claims, whether or not meritorious, could result in litigation and divert the efforts of our personnel. if we are found liable for infringement, we may be required to enter into licensing agreements (which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all) or to pay damages and to cease making or selling certain products. we may need to redesign some of our products or processes to avoid future infringement liability. any of the foregoing could be detrimental to our business. other pending and future litigation may lead us to incur significant costs and have an adverse effect on our business. we also are party to various lawsuits and claims arising in the normal course of business involving contracts, intellectual property, import and export regulations, employment and environmental matters. the defense of these lawsuits may divert our management attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. in addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. while we do not believe that any litigation in which we are currently engaged would have such an adverse effect, the outcome of litigation, including regulatory matters, is often difficult to predict, and we cannot assure that the outcome of pending or future litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities, litigation and violations. we are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things: the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; and the health and safety of our employees. 23 table of contents these laws and government regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or will not adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. moreover, we may become subject to additional environmental claims, which may include claims for personal injury or cleanup, based on our past, present or future business activities, which could also adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our aerospace segment is subject to government regulation, which may require us to incur expenses to ensure compliance. our failure to comply with those regulations could have adverse effect on our results of operations. the u.s. federal aviation administration (the faa ) regulates the manufacture and sale of some of our aerospace products and licenses for the operation of our repair stations. comparable agencies, such as the european aviation safety agency in europe (the easa ), regulate these matters in other countries. if we fail to qualify for or obtain a required license for one of our products or services or lose a qualification or license previously granted, the sale of the subject product or service would be prohibited by law until such license is obtained or renewed and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. in addition, designing new products to meet existing regulatory requirements and retrofitting installed products to comply with new regulatory requirements can be expensive and time consuming. from time to time, the faa, the easa or comparable agencies propose new regulations or changes to existing regulations. these changes or new regulations generally increase the costs of compliance. to the extent the faa, the easa or comparable agencies implement regulatory changes, we may incur significant additional costs to achieve compliance. if we fail to establish and maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis could be impaired, which would adversely affect our consolidated results, and our ability to operate our business and our stock price. our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the united states. any failure on our part to remedy any identified control deficiencies, or any delays or errors in our financial reporting, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. our workforce covered by collective bargaining and similar agreements could cause interruptions in our provision of products and services. for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2010, approximately 15% of our net revenues were generated by operations for which a significant part of our workforce is covered by collective bargaining agreements and similar agreements in foreign jurisdictions. it is likely that a portion of our workforce will remain covered by collective bargaining and similar agreements for the foreseeable future. strikes or work stoppages could occur that would adversely impact our relationships with our customers and our ability to conduct our business. our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. as of december 31, 2010, we had total consolidated indebtedness of $917.1 million. 24 table of contents our substantial level of indebtedness increases the risk that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay amounts due in respect of our indebtedness. it could also have significant effects on our business. for example, it could: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate; restrict us from exploiting business opportunities; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness; and limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy or other general corporate purposes. despite current substantial indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur substantially more indebtedness. this could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial leverage. we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, including secured indebtedness. for example, as of december, 31 2010, after taking into account the limitations under the covenants under our senior credit agreement and our outstanding senior notes issued in 2004, which we refer to as the senior notes, we would have had approximately $422.2 million borrowing capacity, consisting of $396.3 million of aggregate borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility and $25.9 million of borrowing capacity under our accounts receivable securitization facility. adding new indebtedness to current debt levels could make it more difficult for us to satisfy our existing debt obligations. our indebtedness may restrict our current and future operations, which could adversely affect our ability to respond to changes in our business and to manage our operations. our senior credit agreement and the senior notes contain financial and other restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests such as incur debt, create liens, consolidate, merge or dispose of certain assets, make certain investments and engage in certain acquisitions. our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debts. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness. our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. we may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. our ability to make payments on, and to refinance, our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures, research and development efforts, working capital, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes depends on our ability to generate cash in the future. this, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. if we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or if future borrowings are not available to us in an amount sufficient to pay our indebtedness or to fund our liquidity needs, we may be forced to: refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before the maturity thereof; sell assets; 25 table of contents reduce or delay capital expenditures; or seek to raise additional capital. in addition, we may not be able to affect any of these actions on commercially reasonable terms or at all. our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our financial condition at the time, the restrictions in the instruments governing our indebtedness and other factors, including market conditions. our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt service obligations, or to refinance or restructure our obligations on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would have an adverse effect, which could be material, on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as our ability to satisfy our obligations in respect of the notes. we are a holding company. substantially all of our business is conducted through our subsidiaries. our ability to repay our debt depends on the performance of our subsidiaries and their ability to make distributions to us. we are a holding company. substantially all of our business is conducted through our subsidiaries, which are separate and distinct legal entities. therefore, our ability to service our indebtedness is dependent on the earnings and the distribution of funds (whether by dividend, distribution or loan) from our subsidiaries. none of our subsidiaries is obligated to make funds available to us for payment on our existing debt. we cannot assure you that the agreements governing the existing and future indebtedness of our subsidiaries will permit our subsidiaries to provide us with sufficient dividends, distributions or loans to fund payments on our existing debt. in addition, any payment of dividends, distributions or loans to us by our subsidiaries could be subject to restrictions on dividends or repatriation of earnings under applicable local law and monetary transfer restrictions in the jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate. furthermore, payments to us by our subsidiaries will be contingent upon our subsidiaries earnings. in the event of a bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization of any of our subsidiaries, such subsidiaries will pay the holders of their debt and their trade creditors before they will be able to distribute any of their assets to us. we may not pay dividends on our common stock in the future. holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. the declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including our financial condition, earnings, compliance with debt instruments, legal requirements and other factors as our board of directors deems relevant. we cannot assure you that our cash dividend will not be reduced, or eliminated, in the future. the contingent conversion features of our convertible notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition. in august 2010, we issued $400 million in aggregate principal amount of convertible senior subordinated notes due 2017, which we refer to as the convertible notes. the convertible notes are convertible into shares of our common stock beginning on may 1, 2017, or earlier upon the satisfaction of certain conditions specified in the convertible note terms. see convertible notes under note 9 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for a further discussion regarding the conversion terms of the convertible notes. if the convertible notes become eligible for conversion and one or more holders elect to convert their notes, unless we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering solely shares of our common stock (other than cash in lieu of any fractional shares), we would be required to settle a portion of or all of our conversion obligation through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. in addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their convertible notes, if the method of settlement effective during the period reflected in the financial statements is cash settlement or combination settlement, we would 26 table of contents be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all of the outstanding principal of the convertible notes as a current rather than long-term liability in such financial statements, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital. the convertible note hedge transactions and warrant transactions entered into in connection with the issuance of our convertible notes may affect the value of our common stock. in connection with our issuance of the convertible notes, we entered into privately negotiated hedge transactions with third parties, which we refer to as the hedge counterparties. the hedge transactions cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, the number of shares of our common stock that underlie the convertible notes and are expected to reduce our exposure to potential dilution with respect to our common stock and/or reduce our exposure to potential cash payments that may be required to be made by us upon conversion of the convertible notes. separately, we also entered into privately negotiated warrant transactions relating to the same number of shares of our common stock with the hedge counterparties with a strike price of $74.648, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, pursuant to which we may be obligated to issue shares of our common stock. the warrant transactions could have a dilutive effect with respect to our common stock or, if we so elect, obligate us to make cash payments to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock exceeds the strike price of the warrants on any expiration date of the warrants. in connection with establishing its initial hedges of the convertible note hedge transactions and the warrant transactions, the hedge counterparties (and/or their affiliates) entered into various cash-settled over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to our common stock concurrently with, or shortly following, the pricing of the convertible notes. the hedge counterparties (and/or their affiliates) may, in their sole discretion, with or without notice, modify their hedge positions from time to time (and are likely to do so during any conversion period related to the conversion of the convertible notes) by entering into or unwinding various over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to shares of our common stock, and/or by purchasing or selling shares of our common stock or convertible notes in privately negotiated transactions and/or open market transactions. the effect, if any, of these transactions and activities on the market price of our common stock will depend in part on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time, but any of these activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock. we are subject to counterparty risk with respect to the convertible note hedge transactions. each hedge counterparty is a financial institution or the affiliate of a financial institution, and we will be subject to the risk that one or more hedge counterparties may default under the convertible note hedge transactions. our exposure to the credit risk of each hedge counterparty will not be secured by any collateral. recent global economic conditions have resulted in the actual or perceived failure or financial difficulties of many financial institutions, including a bankruptcy filing by lehman brothers holdings inc. and its various affiliates. if a hedge counterparty becomes subject to insolvency proceedings, we will become an unsecured creditor in those proceedings with a claim equal to our exposure at that time under the convertible note hedge transaction with that hedge counterparty. our exposure will depend on many factors but, generally, the increase in our exposure will be correlated to the increase in our stock market price and in volatility of our common stock. in addition, upon a default by a hedge counterparty, we may suffer adverse tax consequences and dilution with respect to our common stock. we can provide no assurances as to the financial stability or viability of the hedge counterparties. we may issue additional shares of our common stock or instruments convertible into our common stock, including in connection with conversions of our convertible notes, which could lower the price of our common stock. we are not restricted from issuing additional shares of our common stock or other instruments convertible into our common stock. as of december 31, 2010, we had outstanding approximately 40.0 million shares of our common stock, options to purchase approximately 2.3 million shares of our common stock (of which approximately 1.5 million were vested as of that date), approximately 0.4 million of restricted stock awards 27 table of contents (which are expected to vest over the next three years) and approximately 30,000 shares of our common stock to be distributed from our deferred compensation plan. in addition, a substantial number of shares of our common stock is reserved for issuance upon the exercise of stock options, upon conversion of the convertible notes and upon the exercise of the warrants issued in connection with the convertible notes. we cannot predict the size of future issuances or the effect, if any, that they may have on the market price for our common stock. if we issue additional shares of our common stock or instruments convertible into our common stock, it may materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock. furthermore, the conversion of some or all of the convertible notes may dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders, and any sales in the public market of such shares of our common stock issuable upon any conversion of the convertible notes could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. in addition, the anticipated issuance and sale of substantial amounts of common stock or conversion of the convertible notes into shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock. certain provisions of our corporate governing documents and delaware law could discourage, delay, or prevent a merger or acquisition. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock. for example, our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to determine the number of shares in a series, the consideration, dividend rights, liquidation preferences, terms of redemption, conversion or exchange rights and voting rights, if any, of unissued series of preferred stock, without any vote or action by our stockholders. thus, our board of directors can authorize and issue shares of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting or other rights of holders of our common stock. we are also subject to section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our common stock. these provisions could have the effect of delaying or deterring a third party to acquire us even if an acquisition might be in the best interest of our stockholders, and accordingly could reduce the market price of our common stock. certain provisions in our convertible notes could delay or prevent an otherwise beneficial takeover or takeover attempt of us. certain provisions in the convertible notes and the indenture governing the convertible notes could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. for example, if an acquisition event constitutes a fundamental change, holders of the convertible notes will have the right to require us to purchase their notes in cash. in addition, if an acquisition event constitutes a make-whole fundamental change, we may be required to increase the conversion rate for holders who convert their notes in connection with such acquisition event. in either case, and in other cases, our obligations under the convertible notes and the indenture could increase the cost of acquiring us or otherwise discourage a third party from acquiring us or removing incumbent management, and accordingly could reduce the market price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk we are exposed to certain financial risks, specifically fluctuations in market interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and, to a lesser extent, commodity prices. we use derivative financial instruments to manage or reduce the impact of some of these risks. we do not enter into derivative instruments for trading purposes. we are also exposed to changes in the market traded price of our common stock as it influences the valuation of stock options and their effect on earnings. interest rate risk we are exposed to changes in interest rates as a result of our borrowing activities and our cash balances. an interest rate swap is used to manage a portion of our interest rate risk. the table below provides information regarding the amortization and related interest rates by year of maturity for our fixed and variable rate debt obligations. variable interest rates shown below are the weighted average rates of the debt portfolio based on interest rates in effect on december 31, 2010. for the amount subject to swap, the notional amount and the related interest rate is shown by year of maturity. the fair value, net of tax, of the interest rate swap as of december 31, 2010 was a loss of $15.4 million, which was reflected in accumulated other comprehensive income. year of maturity 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 thereafter total (dollars in thousands) fixed rate debt $ 72,500 $ $ $ 48,250 $ $ 445,050 $ 565,800 average interest rate 6.6% 7.1% 4.2% 4.8% variable rate debt $ 31,211 $ 45,220 $ 36,387 $ 318,393 $ $ $ 431,211 average interest rate 1.7% 1.7% 2.8% 2.8% 2.6% amount subject to swaps: variable to fixed (1) $ 350,000 average rate to be received 3 months usd libor average rate to be paid 4.75% (2 ) 59 table of contents (1) the notional value of the interest rate swap was $600 million at inception and was amortized to a notional value of $350 million in october 2010. the notional value of the interest rate swap will remain at $350 million until maturity in 2012. (2) the all in cost of the $350 million floating rate debt swapped to a fixed rate is 4.75% plus the applicable spread over libor, which at december 31, 2010 was 222 basis points. a 1.0% change in variable interest rates would adversely or positively impact our expected net earnings by approximately $0.5 million, for the year ended december 31, 2011. foreign currency risk we are exposed to currency fluctuations in connection with transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of certain subsidiaries. we have entered into forward contracts with several major financial institutions to hedge a portion of projected cash flows from these exposures. these are primarily contracts to buy or sell a foreign currency against the u.s. dollar or the euro. the fair value of the open forward contracts as of december 31, 2010 was a net gain of $0.1 million. the following table provides information regarding our open forward currency contracts as of december 31, 2010, which mature in 2011. forward contract notional amounts presented below are expressed in the stated currencies. the total notional amount for all contracts translates to approximately $76 million. forward currency contracts: buy/(sell) (in thousands) japanese yen (546,000 ) united states dollars (20,110 ) euros (13,324 ) mexican peso 226,109 czech koruna 293,748 malaysian ringgits 51,692 canadian dollars (6,110 ) a strengthening of 10% in the value of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies would, on a combined basis, adversely impact the translation of our non-us subsidiary net earnings and transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of certain subsidiaries by approximately $8.3 million, for the year ended december 31, 2011.risk factors. competition the medical device industry is highly competitive. we compete with many companies, ranging from small start-up enterprises to companies that are larger and more established than us with access to significant financial resources. furthermore, extensive product research and development and rapid technological advances characterize the market in which we compete. we must continue to develop and acquire new products and technologies for our businesses to remain competitive. we believe that we compete primarily on the basis of clinical superiority and innovative features that enhance patient benefit, product reliability, performance, customer and sales support, and cost-effectiveness. our competitors include c. r. bard, inc., covidien and carefusion. sales and marketing our products are sold directly to hospitals, healthcare providers, distributors and to original equipment manufacturers of medical devices through our own sales forces and through independent representatives and independent distributor networks. backlog most of our products are sold to hospitals or healthcare providers on orders calling for delivery within a few days or weeks, with longer order times for products sold to medical device manufacturers. therefore, our backlog of orders is not indicative of probable revenues in any future 12-month period. patents and trademarks we own a portfolio of patents, patents pending and trademarks. we also license various patents and trademarks. patents for individual products extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. trademark rights may potentially extend for longer periods of time and are dependent upon national laws and use of the marks. all capitalized product names throughout this document are trademarks owned by, or licensed to, us or our subsidiaries. although these have been of value and are expected to continue to be of value in the future, we do not consider any single patent or trademark, except for the teleflex and arrow brands, to be essential to the operation of our business. suppliers and materials materials used in the manufacture of our products are purchased from a large number of suppliers in diverse geographic locations. we are not dependent on any single supplier for a substantial amount of the materials used or components supplied for our overall operations. most of the materials and components we use are available from multiple sources, and where practical, we attempt to identify alternative suppliers. volatility in commodity markets, particularly steel and plastic resins, can have a significant impact on the cost of producing certain of our products. we may not be able to successfully pass these cost increases through to all of our customers, particularly original equipment manufacturers. 10 table of contents research and development we are engaged in both internal and external research and development. our research and development costs principally relate to our efforts to bring innovative new products to the markets we serve, and our efforts to enhance the clinical value, ease of use, safety and reliability of our existing product lines. our research and development efforts support our strategic objectives to provide safe and effective products that reduce infections, improve patient and clinician safety, enhance patient outcomes and enable less invasive procedures. we also acquire or license products and technologies that are consistent with our strategic objectives and enhance our ability to provide a full range of product and service options to our customers. seasonality portions of our revenues are subject to seasonal fluctuations. incidence of flu and other disease patterns as well as the frequency of elective medical procedures affect revenues related to single-use products. employees we employed approximately 11,500 full-time and temporary employees at december 31, 2011. of these employees, approximately 3,300 were employed in the united states and 8,200 in countries outside of the united states. less than 5% percent of our employees in the united states were covered by union contracts. we also have collective-bargaining arrangements or union contracts that cover employees in other countries. we believe we have good relationships with our employees. investor information we are subject to the reporting requirements of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the exchange act ). therefore, we file reports, proxy statements and other information with the securities and exchange commission (sec). copies of such reports, proxy statements, and other information may be obtained by visiting the public reference room of the sec at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549 or by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. in addition, the sec maintains a web site ( http://www.sec.gov ) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec. you can access financial and other information about us in the investors section of our website, which can be accessed at www.teleflex.com . we make available through our website, free of charge, copies of our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to the sec under section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing or furnishing such material to the sec. the information on our website is not part of this annual report on form 10-k. the reference to our website address is intended to be an inactive textual reference only. we are a delaware corporation incorporated in 1943. our executive offices are located at 155 south limerick road, limerick, pa 19468. our telephone number is (610) 948-5100. 11 table of contents executive officers the names and ages of all of our executive officers and the positions and offices held by each such officer are as follows: name age positions and offices with company benson f. smith 64 chairman, president, chief executive officer and director richard a. meier 52 executive vice president and chief financial officer laurence g. miller 57 executive vice president, chief administrative officer, general counsel and secretary mr. smith was appointed our chairman, president and chief executive officer in january 2011, and has served as a director since april 2005. prior to january 2011, mr. smith was the managing partner of sales research group, a research and consulting organization, and also served as the chief executive officer of bfs &amp; associates llc, which specialized in strategic planning and venture investing. prior to that, mr. smith worked for c.r. bard, inc., a company specializing in medical devices, for approximately 25 years, where he held various executive and senior level positions. most recently, mr. smith served as president and chief operating officer of c.r. bard from 1994 to 1998. mr. meier joined teleflex as executive vice president and chief financial officer in january 2010. prior to joining teleflex, mr. meier held various executive-level positions with advanced medical optics, inc., a global ophthalmic medical device company, from april 2002 to may 2009. he most recently served as president and chief operating officer of advanced medical optics from november 2007 to may 2009. before joining advanced medical optics, mr. meier worked at valeant pharmaceuticals (icn pharmaceuticals), a company specializing in specialty pharmaceuticals from 1998 through 2002 where he held various executive positions, including executive vice president and chief financial officer. mr. miller has been executive vice president, general counsel and secretary since february 2008 and has also served as chief administrative officer since april 26, 2011. from november 2004 to february 2008, mr. miller was senior vice president, general counsel and secretary. from november 2001 until november 2004, he was senior vice president and associate general counsel for the food &amp; support services division of aramark corporation, a diversified management services company providing food, refreshment, facility and other support services for a variety of organizations. our officers are elected annually by our board of directors. each officer serves at the discretion of the board. item 1a. risk factors we are subject to risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. these risks include, but are not limited to the following: we face strong competition. our failure to successfully develop and market new products could adversely affect our business. the medical device industry is highly competitive. we compete with many domestic and foreign medical device companies ranging from small start-up enterprises that might sell only a single or limited number of competitive products or compete only in a specific market segment, to companies that are larger and more established than us with access to significantly greater financial and marketing resources and that participate in numerous markets. in addition, the medical device industry is characterized by extensive product research and development and rapid technological advances. the future success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability to design and manufacture new competitive products and enhance existing products. our product development efforts may require us to make substantial investments. there can 12 table of contents be no assurance that unforeseen problems will not occur with respect to the development, performance or market acceptance of new technologies or products, such as our inability to: identify viable new products; obtain adequate intellectual property protection; gain market acceptance of new products; or successfully obtain regulatory approvals. in addition, our competitors currently may be developing, or may develop in the future, products that are more effective than those that we currently offer or subsequently develop. our failure to successfully develop and market new products or enhance existing products could reduce our revenues and margins, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our customers depend on third party coverage and reimbursement and the failure of healthcare programs to provide coverage and reimbursement, or the reduction in levels of reimbursement, for our medical products could adversely affect us. the ability of our customers to obtain coverage and reimbursements for our products is important to our business. demand for many of our existing and new medical products is, and will continue to be, affected by the extent to which government healthcare programs and private health insurers reimburse our customers for patients medical expenses in the countries where we do business. even when we develop or acquire a promising new product, we may find limited demand for the product unless reimbursement approval is obtained from private and governmental third party payors. internationally, healthcare reimbursement systems vary significantly, with medical centers in some countries having fixed budgets, regardless of the level of patient treatment. other countries require application for, and approval of, government or third party reimbursement. without both favorable coverage determinations by, and the financial support of, government and third party insurers, the market for many of our medical products could be adversely affected. we cannot be sure that third party payors will maintain the current level of coverage and reimbursement to our customers for use of our existing products. adverse coverage determinations or any reduction in the amount of reimbursement could harm our business by altering the extent to which potential customers select our products and the prices they are willing to pay. in addition, as a result of their purchasing power and continually rising healthcare costs, third party payors are implementing cost cutting measures such as seeking discounts, price reductions or other incentives from medical products suppliers and imposing limitations on coverage and reimbursement for medical technologies and procedures. these trends could compel us to reduce prices for our existing products and potential new products and could cause a decrease in the size of the market or a potential increase in competition that could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability and warranty claims that may be brought against us and recalls, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. furthermore, as a medical device company, we face an inherent risk of damage to our reputation if one or more of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective. our businesses expose us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture and marketing of our products. in particular, our medical device products are often used in surgical and intensive care settings with seriously ill patients. in addition, many of our products are designed to be implanted in the human body for varying periods of time. product defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks with respect to products we manufacture or sell could result in injury to, or death of, the patient. product liability and warranty claims often involve very large or 13 table of contents indeterminate amounts, including punitive damages. the magnitude of the potential losses relating to product liability lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time, and the cost to defend against any such litigation may be significant. we could experience material warranty or product liability losses in the future and incur significant costs to defend these claims. in addition, if any of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective, we may voluntarily participate, or be required by regulatory authorities to participate, in a recall of that product. in the event of a recall, we may experience lost sales and be exposed to individual or class-action litigation claims. moreover, our reputation could be damaged if one or more of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective. product liability, warranty and recall costs may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to extensive government regulation, which may require us to incur significant expenses to ensure compliance. our failure to comply with those regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. our products are classified as medical devices and are subject to extensive regulation in the united states by the fda and by comparable government agencies in other countries. the regulations govern the development, design, approval, manufacturing, labeling, importing and exporting and sale and marketing of many of our products. moreover, these regulations are subject to future change. failure to comply with applicable regulations could lead to manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages, delays in product manufacturing, product seizures, recalls, operating restrictions, withdrawal or suspension of required licenses, and prohibitions against exporting of products to, or importing products from, countries outside the united states. we could be required to expend significant financial and human resources to remediate failures to comply with applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines. in addition, civil and criminal penalties, including exclusion under medicaid or medicare, could result from regulatory violations. any one or more of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in the united states, before we can market a new medical device, or a new use of, or claim for, or significant modification to, an existing product, we must first receive either 510(k) clearance or approval of a premarket approval, or pma, application from the fda, unless an exemption applies. in the 510(k) clearance process, the fda must determine that our proposed product is substantially equivalent to a device legally on the market, known as a predicate device, with respect to intended use, technology and safety and effectiveness, in order to clear the proposed device for marketing. the pma pathway requires us to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the device based, in part, on data obtained in human clinical trials. similarly, most major markets for medical devices outside the united states also require clearance, approval or compliance with certain standards before a product can be commercially marketed. the process of obtaining regulatory clearances and approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the fda and certain foreign governmental authorities, can be costly and time consuming, and clearances and approvals might not be granted for new products on a timely basis, if at all. in addition, once a device has been cleared or approved, a new clearance or approval may be required before the device may be modified or its labeling changed. furthermore, the fda is currently reviewing its 510(k) clearance process, and may make the process more rigorous, which could require us to generate additional clinical or other data, and expend more time and effort, in obtaining future 510(k) product clearance. the regulatory clearance and approval process may result in, among other things, delayed realization of product revenues, in substantial additional costs or in limitations on indicated uses of products, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. even after a product has received marketing approval or clearance, such product approval or clearance by the fda can be withdrawn or limited due to unforeseen problems with the device or integrity issues relating to the marketing application. later discovery of violations of fda requirements for medical devices could result in fda enforcement actions, including warning letters, fines, delays or 14 table of contents suspensions of regulatory clearances, product seizures or recalls, injunctions, advisories or other field actions, and/or operating restrictions. medical devices are cleared or approved for one or more specific intended uses. promoting a device for an off-label use could result in government enforcement action. furthermore, our facilities are subject to periodic inspection by the fda and other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities, which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to certain regulations, including the quality system regulation which requires testing, complaint handling, periodic audits, design controls, quality control testing and documentation procedures. the fda may also inspect for compliance with medical device reporting regulation, which requires manufacturers to submit reports to fda of certain adverse events or malfunctions, and whether the facilities have submitted notifications of product recalls or other corrective actions in accordance with fda regulations. issues identified during such periodic inspections may result in warning letters, manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages, product seizures or recalls, fines and delays in product manufacturing, and may require significant resources to resolve. we may not be successful in achieving expected operating efficiencies and sustaining or improving operating expense reductions, and may experience business disruptions associated with restructuring, realignment, cost reduction and other strategic initiatives. over the past few years we have implemented several restructuring, realignment and cost reduction initiatives, including the realignment of our north american organizational structure, facility consolidations and reductions in our workforce. while we have started to realize the efficiencies of these actions, we may not fully realize the anticipated benefits of these initiatives. further, such benefits may be realized later than expected, and the ongoing costs of implementing these measures may be greater than anticipated. we may also experience unanticipated difficulties or delays in implementing these measures, which could cause us to incur additional costs or result in business disruptions. in addition, if these measures are not successful or sustainable, we may undertake additional realignment and cost reduction efforts, which could result in significant additional charges. moreover, if our restructuring and realignment efforts prove ineffective, our ability to achieve our other strategic goals and business plans may be adversely affected. in addition, as part of our efforts to increase operating efficiencies, we plan to commence efforts in 2012 to begin transitioning our businesses to a single enterprise resource planning, or erp, system. in the event we encounter any problems with this transition, we could experience business disruptions, which could adversely affect customer relationships and divert the attention of management away from daily operations. in addition, any delays in the implementation of the erp system could cause us to incur additional unexpected costs. should we experience such difficulties, our business, cash flows and results of operations could be adversely affected. our strategic initiatives may not produce the intended growth in revenue and operating income. our strategies include making significant investments to achieve revenue growth and margin improvement targets. if we do not achieve the expected benefits from these investments or otherwise fail to execute on our strategic initiatives, we may not achieve the growth improvement we are targeting and our results of operations may be adversely affected. in addition, as part of our strategy for growth, we have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions and divestitures and enter into strategic alliances such as joint ventures and joint development agreements. however, we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions or integrate acquisitions successfully, and our strategic alliances may not prove to be successful. in this regard, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies and the diversion of management attention from other business concerns. although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in any particular transaction, there can be no assurance that we will properly ascertain all such risks. in addition, prior acquisitions have resulted, and future 15 table of contents acquisitions could result, in the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness and other expenses. future acquisitions may also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities. there can be no assurance that difficulties encountered with acquisitions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our ability to attract, retain, train and develop key employees is important to our success. our success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to retain our key personnel, including our executive officers and other members of our senior management team. our success also depends, in part, on our ability to attract, retain, train and develop other key employees, including research and development, sales, marketing and operations personnel. achieving this objective may be difficult due to many factors, including: the intense competition for skilled personnel in our industry; fluctuations in global economic and industry conditions; changes in our organizational structure; restructuring initiatives we may engage in; competitors hiring practices; and the effectiveness of our compensation programs. if we are unable to attract, retain, train and develop such personnel in sufficient numbers and on a timely basis, we may experience difficulty in implementing our business strategy, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. an interruption in our manufacturing operations or our supply of raw materials may adversely affect our business. many of our key products are manufactured at single locations, and the availability of alternate facilities is limited. if an event occurs that results in damage to one or more of our facilities, we may not be able to timely manufacture the relevant products at previous levels or at all. in addition, in the event of delays or cancellations in shipments of raw materials by our suppliers, we may not be able to timely manufacture the affected products at previous levels or at all. furthermore, in the event of a disruption in our supply of certain components or materials, the stringent regulations and requirements of the fda and other regulatory authorities regarding the manufacture of our products, could delay or otherwise impair our ability to establish additional or replacement sources for these components or materials on a timely basis. a reduction or interruption in manufacturing, or our inability to secure suitable alternative sources of raw materials or components, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the ongoing volatility in the domestic and global financial markets, including the european sovereign debt crisis, combined with a continuation of constrained global credit markets could adversely impact our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. we are subject to risks arising from adverse changes in general domestic and global economic conditions, including the economic slowdown and disruption of credit markets in recent years. in particular, the european sovereign debt crisis and its collateral effects on global financial markets may have a negative impact on our business. the credit and capital markets experienced extreme volatility and disruption in recent years, leading to recessionary conditions and depressed levels of consumer and commercial spending. these recessionary conditions have caused customers to reduce, delay or cancel purchases of our products and services. while recent economic indicators suggest improvement in the united states and global economy, we cannot predict the duration or extent of any economic recovery or the extent to which our customers will return to more normalized spending behaviors. if the recessionary conditions return, our customers may terminate existing purchase orders or reduce the volume of products or services they purchase from us in the future. 16 table of contents adverse economic and financial market conditions may also cause our suppliers to be unable to meet their commitments to us or may cause suppliers to make changes in the credit terms they extend to us, such as shortening the required payment period for our accounts payable or reducing the maximum amount of trade credit available to us. these types of actions could significantly affect our liquidity and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. additionally, our customers, particularly in the european region, have extended or delayed payments for products and services already provided, which may lead to collectability concerns regarding our accounts receivable from these customers. although we maintain allowances for doubtful accounts to cover the estimated losses which may occur when customers cannot make their required payments, we cannot be assured that we will continue to experience the same loss rate in the future given the volatility in the worldwide economy. if our allowance for doubtful accounts is insufficient to address receivables we ultimately determine are uncollectible, we would be required to incur additional charges, which could materially adversely affect our operating results. moreover, our inability to collect outstanding receivables could adversely affect our financial condition and cash flow from operations. in addition, the amount of goodwill and other intangible assets on our consolidated balance sheet have increased significantly in recent years, primarily as a result of the acquisition of arrow international in 2007. adverse economic and financial market conditions may result in future charges to recognize impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets, which would not directly affect our liquidity but could have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results. we are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse laws, regulation and enforcement; our failure to comply with those laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse regulation and enforcement by the federal government and the states and foreign governments in which we conduct our business. the laws that may affect our ability to operate include: the federal healthcare programs anti-kickback law, which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully offering or paying remuneration to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as the medicare and medicaid programs, or soliciting payment for such referrals, purchases, orders and recommendations; federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, false or fraudulent claims for payment from medicare, medicaid, or other third-party payors; the federal health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996 ( hipaa ), which prohibit schemes to defraud any healthcare benefit program and false statements relating to healthcare matters; and state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers. if our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, the exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs and imprisonment, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. the risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. 17 table of contents further, the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education affordability reconciliation act (collectively, the healthcare reform act ), imposes new reporting and disclosure requirements on device manufacturers for any transfer of value made or distributed to prescribers and other healthcare providers, effective march 30, 2013. such information will be made publicly available in a searchable format beginning september 30, 2013. in addition, device manufacturers will also be required to report and disclose any investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members during the preceding calendar year. failure to submit required information may result in civil monetary penalties of up to an aggregate of $150,000 per year (and up to an aggregate of $1 million per year for knowing failures ), for all payments, transfers of value or ownership or investment interests not reported in an annual submission. in addition, there has been a recent trend of increased federal and state regulation of payments made to healthcare providers. some states, such as california, massachusetts and vermont, mandate implementation of compliance programs that include the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation for consulting and other services, and other remuneration to healthcare providers. the shifting commercial compliance environment and the need to build and maintain robust and expandable systems to comply with multiple jurisdictions with different compliance and/or reporting requirements increases the possibility that a healthcare company may run afoul of one or more of the requirements and may result in increased compliance costs, which could adversely impact our results of operations. health care reform may have a material adverse effect on our industry and our business. political, economic and regulatory developments have effected fundamental changes in the healthcare industry. the healthcare reform act, enacted in march 2010, substantially changes the way health care is financed by both government and private insurers, encourages improvements in the quality of health care items and services, and significantly impacts the u.s. pharmaceutical and medical device industries. among other things, the healthcare reform act: establishes a 2.3% deductible excise tax on sales of medical devices with respect to any entity that manufactures or imports certain medical devices offered for sale in the united states, beginning in 2013; establishes a new patient-centered outcomes research institute to oversee, identify priorities in and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research; implements payment system reforms, including a national pilot program on payment bundling to encourage hospitals, physicians and other providers to improve the coordination, quality and efficiency of certain health care services through bundled payment models, beginning on or before january 1, 2013; and creates an independent payment advisory board that will submit recommendations to reduce medicare spending if projected medicare spending exceeds a specified growth rate. we currently estimate the impact of the 2.3% deductible excise tax to be approximately $15.0 million annually, beginning in 2013. however, we cannot predict at this time the full impact of the healthcare reform act or other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. we depend upon relationships with physicians and other health care professionals. research and development for some of our products is dependent on our maintaining strong working relationships with physicians and other health care professionals. we rely on these professionals to provide us with considerable knowledge and experience regarding the development and use of our products. physicians assist us as researchers, product consultants, inventors and public speakers. if we fail to maintain our working relationships with physicians and receive the benefits of their knowledge and advice, our products may not be developed and marketed in line with the needs and expectations of the professionals who use and support our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 table of contents we are subject to risks associated with our non-u.s. operations. we have significant manufacturing and distribution facilities, research and development facilities, sales personnel and customer support operations outside the united states in a number of countries, including canada, belgium, the czech republic, france, germany, ireland, malaysia, mexico, and singapore. as of december 31, 2011, approximately 37% of our net property, plant and equipment was located outside the united states. in addition, in 2011, approximately 48% of our net revenues (based on business unit location) were derived from operations outside the united states. approximately 71% of our full-time and temporary employees as of december 31, 2011 were employed in countries outside of the united states. our international operations are subject to risks inherent in doing business outside the united states, including: exchange controls, currency restrictions and fluctuations in currency values; trade protection measures; potentially costly and burdensome import or export requirements; laws and business practices that favor local companies; changes in non-u.s. medical reimbursement policies and procedures; subsidies or increased access to capital for firms that currently are or may emerge as competitors in countries in which we have operations; substantial foreign tax liabilities, including potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; restrictions and taxes related to the repatriation of foreign earnings; differing labor regulations; additional u.s. and foreign government controls or regulations; difficulties in the protection of intellectual property; and unsettled political and economic conditions and possible terrorist attacks against american interests. in addition, the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (the fcpa ) and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws in non-u.s. jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-u.s. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. the fcpa also imposes accounting standards and requirements on publicly traded u.s. corporations and their foreign affiliates, which are intended to prevent the diversion of corporate funds to the payment of bribes and other improper payments, and to prevent the establishment of off books slush funds from which such improper payments can be made. because of the predominance of government-sponsored health care systems around the world, many of our customer relationships outside of the united states are with governmental entities and are therefore subject to such anti-bribery laws. our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. despite meaningful measures that we undertake to facilitate lawful conduct, which include training and compliance programs and internal control policies and procedures, these measures may not always prevent reckless or criminal acts by our employees or agents. violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our operations, involve significant management distraction and result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we also could suffer severe penalties, including criminal and civil penalties, disgorgement, further changes or enhancements to our procedures, policies and controls, personnel changes and other remedial actions. 19 table of contents furthermore, we are subject to the export controls and economic embargo rules and regulations of the united states, including the export administration regulations and trade sanctions against embargoed countries, which are administered by the office of foreign assets control within the department of the treasury, as well as the laws and regulations administered by the department of commerce. these regulations limit our ability to market, sell, distribute or otherwise transfer our products or technology to prohibited countries or persons. while we train our employees and contractually obligate our distributors to comply with these regulations, we cannot assure that a violation will not occur, whether knowingly or inadvertently. failure to comply with these rules and regulations may result in substantial penalties, including fines and enforcement actions and civil and criminal sanctions, the disgorgement of profits and the imposition of a court-appointed monitor, as well as the denial of export privileges and debarment from participation in u.s. government contracts. these and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our business, results of operations and financial condition generally. foreign currency exchange rate, commodity price and interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. we expect revenue from products manufactured in, and sold into, non-u.s. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our net revenue. our consolidated financial statements reflect translation of financial statements denominated in non-u.s. currencies to u.s. dollars, our reporting currency. when the u.s. dollar strengthens or weakens in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries where we sell or manufacture our products, such as the euro, our u.s. dollar-reported revenue and income will fluctuate. although we have entered into forward contracts with several major financial institutions to hedge a portion of projected cash flows denominated in non-functional currency in order to reduce the effects of currency rate fluctuations, changes in the relative values of currencies may, in some instances, have a significant effect on our results of operations. many of our products have significant plastic resin content. we also use quantities of other commodities, such as aluminum. increases in the prices of these commodities could increase the costs of our products and services. we may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers, particularly with respect to those products we sell under group purchase agreements, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. increases in interest rates may adversely affect the financial health of our customers and suppliers and thus adversely affect their ability to buy our products and supply the components or raw materials we need, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. fluctuations in our effective tax rate and changes to tax laws may adversely affect our results. as a company with significant operations outside of the united states, we are subject to taxation in numerous countries, states and other jurisdictions. as a result, our effective tax rate is derived from a combination of applicable tax rates in the various countries, states and other jurisdictions in which we operate. in preparing our financial statements, we estimate the amount of tax that will become payable in each of the countries, states and other jurisdictions in which we operate. our effective tax rate may, however, be lower or higher than experienced in the past due to numerous factors, including a change in the mix of our profitability from country to country, changes in accounting for income taxes and changes in tax laws. any of these factors could cause us to experience an effective tax rate significantly different from previous periods or our current expectations, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. in addition, unfavorable results of tax audits and changes in tax laws in jurisdictions in which we operate could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. 20 table of contents our technology is important to our success, and our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could put us at a competitive disadvantage. we rely on the patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws of the united states and other countries to protect our proprietary rights. although we own numerous u.s. and foreign patents and have submitted numerous patent applications, we cannot assure you that any pending patent applications will issue, or that any patents, issued or pending, will provide us with any competitive advantage or will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties. in addition, we rely on confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with employees and take other measures to protect our know-how and trade secrets. the steps we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of our technology by competitors or other persons who may copy or otherwise obtain and use these products or technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the united states. there is no guarantee that current and former employees, contractors and other parties will not breach their confidentiality agreements with us, misappropriate proprietary information or copy or otherwise obtain and use our information and proprietary technology without authorization or otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. moreover, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop the know-how and trade secrets or develop better technology than our own, which could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we have developed. our inability to protect our proprietary technology could adversely affect our business. our products or processes may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to pay unexpected litigation costs or damages or prevent us from selling our products. we cannot be certain that our products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of our business, including claims of alleged infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties. any such claims, whether or not meritorious, could result in litigation and divert the efforts of our personnel. if we are found liable for infringement, we may be required to enter into licensing agreements (which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all) or to pay damages and to cease making or selling certain products. we may need to redesign some of our products or processes to avoid future infringement liability. any of the foregoing could be detrimental to our business. other pending and future litigation may lead us to incur significant costs and have an adverse effect on our business. we also are party to various lawsuits and claims arising in the normal course of business involving, among other things, contracts, intellectual property, import and export regulations, employment and environmental matters. the defense of these lawsuits may divert our management attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. in addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. while we do not believe that any litigation in which we are currently engaged would have such an adverse effect, the outcome of litigation, including regulatory matters, is often difficult to predict, and we cannot assure that the outcome of pending or future litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities, litigation and violations. we are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things: the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; and 21 table of contents the health and safety of our employees. these laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or will not adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. moreover, we may become subject to additional environmental claims, which may include claims for personal injury or cleanup, based on our past, present or future business activities, which could also adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. if we fail to establish and maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis could be impaired, which would adversely affect our consolidated results, and our ability to operate our business and our stock price. our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the united states. any failure on our part to remedy any identified control deficiencies, or any delays or errors in our financial reporting, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. our workforce covered by collective bargaining and similar agreements could cause interruptions in our provision of products and services. for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2011, approximately 4% of our net revenues were generated by operations for which a significant part of our workforce is covered by collective bargaining agreements and similar agreements in foreign jurisdictions. it is likely that a portion of our workforce will remain covered by collective bargaining and similar agreements for the foreseeable future. strikes or work stoppages could occur that would adversely impact our relationships with our customers and our ability to conduct our business. our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. as of december 31, 2011, we had total consolidated indebtedness of $959.8 million. our substantial level of indebtedness increases the risk that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay amounts due in respect of our indebtedness. it could also have significant effects on our business. for example, it could: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; restrict us from exploiting business opportunities; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness; and limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy or other general corporate purposes. 22 table of contents if we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or if future borrowings are not available to us in an amount sufficient to pay our indebtedness or to fund our liquidity needs, we may be forced to: refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before the maturity thereof; sell assets; reduce or delay capital expenditures; or seek to raise additional capital. we may not be able to affect any of these actions on commercially reasonable terms or at all. our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our financial condition at the time, the restrictions in the instruments governing our indebtedness and other factors, including market conditions. our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt service obligations, or to refinance or restructure our obligations on commercially reasonable terms or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our debt agreements impose restrictions on our business, which could prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking some corporate actions and may adversely affect our ability to respond to changes in our business and manage our operations. the credit agreement governing our credit facilities and the indenture governing our 6.875% senior subordinated notes contain covenants that, among other things, impose significant restrictions on our business. the restrictions that these covenants place on us and our restricted subsidiaries include limitations on our and their ability to: incur additional indebtedness or issue disqualified stock or preferred stock; create liens; pay dividends, make investments or make other restricted payments; sell assets; merge, consolidate, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; enter into transactions with our affiliates; permit layering of debt; designate subsidiaries as unrestricted; and use the proceeds of permitted sales of our assets. in addition, the credit agreement governing our credit facilities also contains financial covenants. a breach of any covenants under any one or more of these debt agreements could result in a default, which if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all our debts. in addition, any debt agreements we enter into in the future may further limit our ability to enter into certain types of transactions. we may not pay dividends on our common stock in the future. holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. the declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including our financial condition, earnings, compliance with debt instruments, legal requirements and other factors as our board of directors deems relevant. we cannot assure you that our cash dividend will not be reduced, or eliminated, in the future. 23 table of contents the contingent conversion features of our convertible notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition. in august 2010, we issued $400 million in aggregate principal amount of convertible senior subordinated notes due 2017, which we refer to as the convertible notes. the convertible notes are convertible into shares of our common stock beginning on may 1, 2017, or earlier upon the satisfaction of certain conditions specified in the convertible note terms. see convertible notes under note 8 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for a further discussion regarding the conversion terms of the convertible notes. if the convertible notes become eligible for conversion and one or more holders elect to convert their notes, unless we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering solely shares of our common stock (other than cash in lieu of any fractional shares), we would be required to settle a portion of or all of our conversion obligation through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. in addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their convertible notes, if the method of settlement effective during the period reflected in the financial statements is cash settlement or combination settlement, we would be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all of the outstanding principal of the convertible notes as a current rather than long-term liability in such financial statements, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital. the convertible note hedge transactions and warrant transactions entered into in connection with the issuance of our convertible notes may affect the value of our common stock. in connection with our issuance of the convertible notes, we entered into privately negotiated hedge transactions with third parties, which we refer to as the hedge counterparties. the hedge transactions cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, the number of shares of our common stock that underlie the convertible notes and are expected to reduce our exposure to potential dilution with respect to our common stock and/or reduce our exposure to potential cash payments that may be required to be made by us upon conversion of the convertible notes. separately, we also entered into privately negotiated warrant transactions relating to the same number of shares of our common stock with the hedge counterparties with a strike price of $74.648, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, pursuant to which we may be obligated to issue shares of our common stock. the warrant transactions could have a dilutive effect with respect to our common stock or, if we so elect, obligate us to make cash payments to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock exceeds the strike price of the warrants on any expiration date of the warrants. in connection with establishing its initial hedges of the convertible note hedge transactions and the warrant transactions, the hedge counterparties (and/or their affiliates) entered into various cash-settled over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to our common stock concurrently with, or shortly following, the pricing of the convertible notes. the hedge counterparties (and/or their affiliates) may, in their sole discretion, with or without notice, modify their hedge positions from time to time (and are likely to do so during any conversion period related to the conversion of the convertible notes) by entering into or unwinding various over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to shares of our common stock, and/or by purchasing or selling shares of our common stock or convertible notes in privately negotiated transactions and/or open market transactions. the effect, if any, of these transactions and activities on the market price of our common stock will depend in part on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time, but any of these activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock. we are subject to counterparty risk with respect to the convertible note hedge transactions. each hedge counterparty is a financial institution or the affiliate of a financial institution, and we will be subject to the risk that one or more hedge counterparties may default under the convertible note hedge transactions. our exposure to the credit risk of each hedge counterparty will not be secured by any collateral. recent global economic conditions have resulted in the actual or perceived failure or 24 table of contents financial difficulties of many financial institutions, including a bankruptcy filing by lehman brothers holdings inc. and its various affiliates. if a hedge counterparty becomes subject to insolvency proceedings, we will become an unsecured creditor in those proceedings with a claim equal to our exposure at that time under the convertible note hedge transaction with that hedge counterparty. our exposure will depend on many factors but, generally, the increase in our exposure will be correlated to the increase in our stock market price and in volatility of our common stock. in addition, upon a default by a hedge counterparty, we may suffer adverse tax consequences and dilution with respect to our common stock. we can provide no assurances as to the financial stability or viability of the hedge counterparties. we may issue additional shares of our common stock or instruments convertible into our common stock, including in connection with conversions of our convertible notes, which could lower the price of our common stock. we are not restricted from issuing additional shares of our common stock or other instruments convertible into our common stock. as of december 31, 2011, we had outstanding approximately 40.7 million shares of our common stock, options to purchase approximately 1.1 million shares of our common stock (of which approximately 0.6 million were vested as of that date), approximately 0.3 million of restricted stock awards (which are expected to vest over the next three years) and approximately 23,000 shares of our common stock to be distributed from our deferred compensation plan. in addition, a substantial number of shares of our common stock is reserved for issuance upon the exercise of stock options, upon conversion of the convertible notes and upon the exercise of the warrants issued in connection with the convertible notes. we cannot predict the size of future issuances or the effect, if any, that they may have on the market price for our common stock. if we issue additional shares of our common stock or instruments convertible into our common stock, it may materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock. furthermore, the conversion of some or all of the convertible notes may dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders, and any sales in the public market of such shares of our common stock issuable upon any conversion of the convertible notes could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. in addition, the anticipated issuance and sale of substantial amounts of common stock or conversion of the convertible notes into shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock. certain provisions of our corporate governing documents and delaware law could discourage, delay, or prevent a merger or acquisition. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock. for example, our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to determine the number of shares in a series, the consideration, dividend rights, liquidation preferences, terms of redemption, conversion or exchange rights and voting rights, if any, of unissued series of preferred stock, without any vote or action by our stockholders. thus, our board of directors can authorize and issue shares of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting or other rights of holders of our common stock. we are also subject to section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our common stock. these provisions could have the effect of delaying or deterring a third party to acquire us even if an acquisition might be in the best interest of our stockholders, and accordingly could reduce the market price of our common stock. certain provisions in our convertible notes could delay or prevent an otherwise beneficial takeover or takeover attempt of us. certain provisions in the convertible notes and the indenture governing the convertible notes could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. for example, if an 25 table of contents acquisition event constitutes a fundamental change, as defined in the indenture, holders of the convertible notes will have the right to require us to purchase their notes in cash. in addition, if an acquisition event constitutes a make-whole fundamental change, as defined in the indenture, we may be required to increase the conversion rate for holders who convert their notes in connection with such acquisition event. in either case, and in other cases, our obligations under the convertible notes and the indenture could increase the cost of acquiring us or otherwise discourage a third party from acquiring us or removing incumbent management, and accordingly could reduce the market price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk we are exposed to certain financial risks, specifically fluctuations in market interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and, to a lesser extent, commodity prices. we use derivative financial instruments to manage or reduce the impact of some of these risks. we do not enter into derivative instruments for trading purposes. we are also exposed to changes in the market traded price of our common stock as it influences the valuation of stock options and their effect on earnings. interest rate risk we are exposed to changes in interest rates as a result of our borrowing activities and our cash balances. the table below provides information regarding the amortization and related interest rates by year of maturity for our fixed and variable rate debt obligations. variable interest rates shown below are the weighted average rates of the debt portfolio based on interest rates in effect on december 31, 2011. year of maturity 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 thereafter total (dollars in thousands) fixed rate debt $ $ $ $ $ $ 650,000 $ 650,000 average interest rate 5.03 % 5.03 % variable rate debt $ 4,986 $ $ 375,000 $ $ $ $ 379,986 average interest rate 1.33 % 2.63 % 2.61 % a change of 1.0% in variable interest rates would adversely or positively impact our expected net earnings by approximately $2.2 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. foreign currency risk we are exposed to currency fluctuations in connection with transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of certain subsidiaries. we have entered into forward contracts with several major financial institutions to hedge a portion of projected cash flows from these exposures. these are primarily contracts to buy or sell a foreign currency against the u.s. dollar or the euro. the fair value of the open forward contracts as of december 31, 2011 was a net loss of $0.2 million. the following table provides information regarding our open forward currency contracts as of december 31, 2011, which mature in 2012. forward contract notional amounts presented below are expressed in the stated currencies. the total notional amount for all contracts translates to approximately $87.2 million. forward currency contracts: buy/(sell) (in thousands) japanese yen (329,687 ) united states dollars 6,218 euros (19,361 ) mexican peso 265,152 czech koruna 258,530 chinese renminbi (77,230 ) south african rand (18,450 ) malaysian ringgits 61,410 canadian dollars (10,021 ) a strengthening of 10% in the value of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies would, on a combined basis, adversely impact the translation of our non-us subsidiary net earnings and transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of certain subsidiaries by approximately $9.2 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. 53 table of contentsrisk factors of this report. competition the medical device industry is highly competitive. we compete with many companies, ranging from small start-up enterprises to companies that are larger and more established than us and have access to significantly greater financial resources. furthermore, extensive product research and development and rapid technological advances characterize the market in which we compete. we must continue to develop and acquire new products and technologies for our businesses to remain competitive. we believe that we compete primarily on the basis of clinical superiority and innovative features that enhance patient benefit, product reliability, performance, customer and sales support, and cost-effectiveness. our competitors include c. r. bard, inc., covidien and carefusion. sales and marketing our products are sold directly to hospitals, healthcare providers, distributors and to original equipment manufacturers of medical devices through our own sales forces and through independent representatives and independent distributor networks. 11 table of contents backlog most of our products are sold to hospitals or healthcare providers on orders calling for delivery within a few days or weeks, with longer order times for products sold to medical device manufacturers. therefore, our backlog of orders is not indicative of probable revenues in any future 12-month period. patents and trademarks we own a portfolio of patents, patents pending and trademarks. we also license various patents and trademarks. patents for individual products extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. trademark rights may potentially extend for longer periods of time and are dependent upon national laws and use of the marks. all capitalized product names throughout this document are trademarks owned by, or licensed to, us or our subsidiaries. although these have been of value and are expected to continue to be of value in the future, we do not consider any single patent or trademark, except for the teleflex and arrow brands, to be essential to the operation of our business. suppliers and materials materials used in the manufacture of our products are purchased from a large number of suppliers in diverse geographic locations. we are not dependent on any single supplier for a substantial amount of the materials used or components supplied for our overall operations. most of the materials and components we use are available from multiple sources, and where practical, we attempt to identify alternative suppliers. volatility in commodity markets, particularly steel and plastic resins, can have a significant impact on the cost of producing certain of our products. we may not be able to successfully pass these cost increases through to all of our customers, particularly original equipment manufacturers. research and development we are engaged in both internal and external research and development. our research and development costs principally relate to our efforts to bring innovative new products to the markets we serve, and our efforts to enhance the clinical value, ease of use, safety and reliability of our existing product lines. our research and development efforts support our strategic objectives to provide safe and effective products that reduce infections, improve patient and clinician safety, enhance patient outcomes and enable less invasive procedures. we also acquire or license products and technologies that are consistent with our strategic objectives and enhance our ability to provide a full range of product and service options to our customers. seasonality portions of our revenues are subject to seasonal fluctuations. incidence of flu and other disease patterns as well as the frequency of elective medical procedures affect revenues related to single-use products. employees we employed approximately 11,600 full-time and temporary employees at december 31, 2012. of these employees, approximately 3,100 were employed in the united states and 8,500 in countries outside of the united states. less than 5% of our employees in the united states were covered by union contracts. we also have collective-bargaining arrangements or union contracts that cover employees in other countries. we believe we have good relationships with our employees. 12 table of contents investor information we are subject to the reporting requirements of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the exchange act ). therefore, we file reports, proxy statements and other information with the securities and exchange commission (sec). copies of such reports, proxy statements, and other information may be obtained by visiting the public reference room of the sec at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549 or by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. in addition, the sec maintains a website (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec. you can access financial and other information about us in the investors section of our website, which can be accessed at www.teleflex.com. we make available through our website, free of charge, copies of our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to the sec under section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing or furnishing such material to the sec. the information on our website is not part of this annual report on form 10-k. the reference to our website address is intended to be an inactive textual reference only. we are a delaware corporation incorporated in 1943. our executive offices are located at 155 south limerick road, limerick, pa 19468. our telephone number is (610) 948-5100. executive officers the names and ages of all of our executive officers and the positions and offices held by each such officer are as follows: name age positions and offices with company benson f. smith 65 chairman, president, chief executive officer and director liam kelly 46 executive vice president and president, international laurence g. miller 58 executive vice president, chief administrative officer, general counsel and secretary thomas e. powell 51 executive vice president and chief financial officer mr. smith has been our chairman, president and chief executive officer since january 2011, and has served as a director since april 2005. prior to january 2011, mr. smith was the managing partner of sales research group, a research and consulting organization. from 1999 to january 2011, he also served as the chief executive officer of bfs &amp; associates llc, which specialized in strategic planning and venture investing. from 2000 until 2005, mr. smith also served as a speaker and author at the gallup organization, a global research-based consultancy firm. prior to that, mr. smith worked for c.r. bard, inc., a company specializing in medical devices, for approximately 25 years, where he held various executive and senior level positions most recently as president and chief operating officer from 1994 to 1998. mr. kelly has been our executive vice president, president, international since june 2012. from june 2011 to june 2012, he served as president, emea. from november 2009 to june 2011, mr. kelly served as executive vice president, emea. from april 2009 to november 2009, he served as vice president of marketing, emea. prior to joining teleflex, mr. kelly held various senior level positions with hill-rom holdings, inc., a medical device company, from october 2002 to august 2009, serving as its vice president of international marketing and r&amp;d from august 2006 to february 2009. mr. miller has been our executive vice president, general counsel and secretary since february 2008 and has also served as chief administrative officer since april 26, 2011. from november 2004 to february 2008, mr. miller was senior vice president, general counsel and secretary. from november 2001 until november 2004, he was senior vice president and associate general counsel 13 table of contents for the food &amp; support services division of aramark corporation, a diversified management services company providing food, refreshment, facility and other support services for a variety of organizations. mr. powell has been our executive vice president and chief financial officer since february 2013. from march 2012 to february 2013, mr. powell was senior vice president and chief financial officer. he joined teleflex in august 2011 as senior vice president, global finance. prior to joining teleflex, mr. powell served as chief financial officer and treasurer of tomotherapy incorporated, a medical device company, from june 2009 until june 2011. in 2008, he served as chief financial officer of textura corporation, a software provider. from april 2001 until january 2008, mr. powell was employed by midway games, inc., a software provider, serving as its executive vice president, cfo and treasurer from september 2001 until january 2008. mr. powell has also held leadership positions with dade behring, inc. (now siemens healthcare diagnostics), pepsico, bain &amp; company, tenneco inc. and arthur andersen &amp; company. our officers are elected annually by our board of directors. each officer serves at the discretion of the board. item 1a. risk factors we are subject to risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. these risks include, but are not limited to the following: we face strong competition. our failure to successfully develop and market new products could adversely affect our business. the medical device industry is highly competitive. we compete with many domestic and foreign medical device companies ranging from small start-up enterprises that might sell only a single or limited number of competitive products or compete only in a specific market segment, to companies that are larger and more established than us, have a broad range of competitive products, participate in numerous markets and have access to significantly greater financial and marketing resources than we do. in addition, the medical device industry is characterized by extensive product research and development and rapid technological advances. the future success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability to design and manufacture new competitive products and enhance existing products. our product development efforts may require us to make substantial investments. there can be no assurance that unforeseen problems will not occur with respect to the development, performance or market acceptance of new technologies or products, such as our inability to: identify viable new products; obtain adequate intellectual property protection; gain market acceptance of new products; or successfully obtain regulatory approvals. in addition, our competitors currently may be developing, or may develop in the future, products that are more effective than those that we currently offer or subsequently develop. our failure to successfully develop and market new products or enhance existing products could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our customers depend on third party coverage and reimbursements and the failure of healthcare programs to provide coverage and reimbursement, or the reduction in levels of reimbursement, for our medical products could adversely affect us. the ability of our customers to obtain coverage and reimbursements for our products is important to our business. demand for many of our existing and new medical products is, and will continue to be, affected by the extent to which government healthcare programs and private health insurers reimburse 14 table of contents our customers for patients medical expenses in the countries where we do business. even when we develop or acquire a promising new product, demand for the product may be limited unless reimbursement approval is obtained from private and governmental third party payors. internationally, healthcare reimbursement systems vary significantly, with medical centers in some countries having fixed budgets, regardless of the extent of patient treatment. other countries require application for, and approval of, government or third party reimbursement. without both favorable coverage determinations by, and the financial support of, government and third party insurers, the market for many of our medical products would be adversely affected. we cannot be sure that third party payors will maintain the current level of coverage and reimbursements to our customers for use of our existing products. adverse coverage determinations or any reduction in the amount of reimbursements could harm our business by reducing potential customers selection of our products and the prices they are willing to pay. in addition, as a result of their purchasing power, third party payors are implementing cost cutting measures such as seeking discounts, price reductions or other incentives from medical products suppliers and imposing limitations on coverage and reimbursements for medical technologies and procedures. these trends could compel us to reduce prices for our existing products and potential new products and could cause a decrease in the size of the market or a potential increase in competition that could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability and warranty claims that may be brought against us and recalls, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. furthermore, as a medical device company, we face an inherent risk of damage to our reputation if one or more of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective. our businesses expose us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture and marketing of our products. in particular, our medical device products are often used in surgical and intensive care settings with seriously ill patients. in addition, many of our products are designed to be implanted in the human body for varying periods of time. product defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks with respect to products we manufacture or sell could result in patient injury or death. product liability and warranty claims often involve very large or indeterminate amounts, including punitive damages. the magnitude of potential losses from product liability lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time, and the cost to defend against these lawsuits may be significant. we could experience material warranty or product liability losses in the future and incur significant costs to defend these claims. in addition, if any of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective, we may voluntarily participate, or be required by regulatory authorities to participate, in a recall of that product. in the event of a recall, we may experience lost sales and be exposed to individual or class-action litigation claims. moreover, our reputation could be damaged if one or more of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective. product liability, warranty and recall costs may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to extensive government regulation, which may require us to incur significant expenses to ensure compliance. our failure to comply with those regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our products are classified as medical devices and are subject to extensive regulation in the united states by the fda and by comparable government agencies in other countries. the regulations govern the development, design, approval, manufacturing, labeling, importing and exporting and sale and marketing of many of our products. moreover, these regulations are subject to future change. failure to comply with applicable regulations could lead to manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages, delays in product manufacturing, product seizures, recalls, operating restrictions, withdrawal or suspension of required licenses, and prohibitions against exporting of products to, or importing 15 table of contents products from, countries outside the united states. we could be required to expend significant financial and human resources to remediate failures to comply with applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines. in addition, civil and criminal penalties, including exclusion under medicaid or medicare, could result from regulatory violations. any one or more of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in the united states, before we can market a new medical device, or a new use of, or claim for, or significant modification to, an existing product, we generally must first receive either 510(k) clearance or approval of a premarket approval, or pma, application from the fda. in order for us to obtain 510(k) clearance, the fda must determine that our proposed product is substantially equivalent to a device legally on the market, known as a predicate device, with respect to intended use, technology and safety and effectiveness. obtaining pma approval is more difficult, requiring us to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the device based, in part, on data obtained in human clinical trials. similarly, most major markets for medical devices outside the united states also require clearance, approval or compliance with certain standards before a product can be commercially marketed. the process of obtaining regulatory clearances and approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the fda and certain foreign governmental authorities, can be costly and time consuming, and clearances and approvals might not be granted for new products on a timely basis, if at all. in addition, once a device has been cleared or approved, a new clearance or approval may be required before the device may be modified or its labeling changed. furthermore, the fda or a foreign governmental authority may make its review and clearance or approval process more rigorous, which could require us to generate additional clinical or other data, and expend more time and effort, in obtaining future product clearances or approvals. the regulatory clearance and approval process may result in, among other things, delayed realization of product revenues, substantial additional costs or limitations on indicated uses of products, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. even after a product has received marketing approval or clearance, such product approval or clearance can be withdrawn or limited due to unforeseen problems with the device or issues relating to its application. violations of fda requirements for medical devices could result in fda enforcement actions, including warning letters, fines, delays in obtaining new regulatory clearances, product seizures or recalls, injunctions, advisories or other field actions, and/or operating restrictions. medical devices are cleared or approved for one or more specific intended uses. promoting a device for an off-label use could result in government enforcement action. furthermore, our facilities are subject to periodic inspection by the fda and other federal, state and foreign government authorities, which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to certain regulations, including the fda quality system regulation, which requires periodic audits, design controls, quality control testing and documentation procedures, as well as complaint evaluations and investigation. the fda also requires the reporting of certain adverse events and may require the reporting of recalls or other field safety corrective actions. issues identified through such inspections and reports may result in warning letters, manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages, product seizures or recalls, fines and delays in product manufacturing, and may require significant resources to resolve. we may not be successful in achieving expected operating efficiencies and sustaining or improving operating expense reductions, and may experience business disruptions associated with restructuring, facility consolidations, realignment, cost reduction and other strategic initiatives. over the past several years we have implemented a number of restructuring, realignment and cost reduction initiatives, including the realignment of our north american organizational structure, facility consolidations and reductions in our workforce. while we have realized some efficiencies from these actions, we may not realize the benefits of these initiatives to the extent we anticipated. further, such 16 table of contents benefits may be realized later than expected, and the ongoing difficulties in implementing these measures may be greater than anticipated, which could cause us to incur additional costs or result in business disruptions. in addition, if these measures are not successful or sustainable, we may undertake additional realignment and cost reduction efforts, which could result in significant additional charges. moreover, if our restructuring and realignment efforts prove ineffective, our ability to achieve our other strategic goals and business plans may be adversely affected. in addition, as part of our efforts to increase operating efficiencies, we commenced efforts in 2012 to transition our businesses to a single enterprise resource planning, or erp, system. in the event we encounter any problems with this transition, we could experience business disruptions, which could adversely affect customer relationships and divert the attention of management away from daily operations. in addition, any delays in the implementation of the erp system could cause us to incur additional unexpected costs. should we experience such difficulties, our business, cash flows and results of operations could be adversely affected. our strategic initiatives, including acquisitions, may not produce the intended growth in revenue and operating income. our strategies include making significant investments to achieve revenue growth and margin improvement targets. if we do not achieve the expected benefits from these investments or otherwise fail to execute on our strategic initiatives, we may not achieve the growth improvement we are targeting and our results of operations may be adversely affected. in addition, as part of our strategy for growth, we have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions and divestitures and enter into strategic alliances such as joint ventures and joint development agreements. however, we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions or integrate acquisitions successfully, and our strategic alliances may not prove to be successful. in this regard, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration of acquired operations, technologies, services and products and the diversion of management attention from other business concerns. although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in any particular transaction, there can be no assurance that we will identify all such risks or the magnitude of the risks. in addition, prior acquisitions have resulted, and future acquisitions could result, in the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness and other expenses. future acquisitions may also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities. there can be no assurance that difficulties encountered with acquisitions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. an interruption in our manufacturing or distribution operations or our supply of raw materials may adversely affect our business. many of our key products are manufactured at or distributed from single locations, and the availability of alternate facilities is limited. if operations at one or more of our facilities is suspended due to natural disasters or other events, we may not be able to timely manufacture or distribute the relevant products at previous levels or at all. in addition, in the event of delays or cancellations in shipments of raw materials by our suppliers, we may not be able to timely manufacture or supply the affected products at previous levels or at all. furthermore, our ability to establish replacement facilities or to substitute suppliers may be delayed due to regulations and requirements of the fda and other regulatory authorities regarding the manufacture of our products. a reduction or interruption in manufacturing or distribution, or our inability to secure suitable alternative sources of raw materials or components, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our ability to attract, train, develop and retain key employees is important to our success. our success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to retain our key personnel, including our executive officers and other members of our senior management team. our success also depends, in 17 table of contents part, on our ability to attract, train, develop and retain other key employees, including research and development, sales, marketing and operations personnel. achieving this objective may be difficult due to many factors, including: the intense competition for skilled personnel in our industry; fluctuations in global economic and industry conditions; changes in our organizational structure; our restructuring initiatives; competitors hiring practices; and the effectiveness of our compensation programs. our inability to attract, train, develop and retain such personnel could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. the ongoing volatility in the domestic and global financial markets, including the european sovereign debt crisis, combined with a continuation of constrained global credit markets could adversely impact our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. we are subject to risks arising from adverse changes in general domestic and global economic conditions, including the economic slowdown and disruption of credit markets in recent years. in particular, the european sovereign debt crisis and its collateral effects on global financial markets may have a negative impact on our business. the credit and capital markets experienced extreme volatility and disruption in recent years, leading to recessionary conditions and depressed levels of consumer and commercial spending. these recessionary conditions have caused customers to reduce, delay or cancel purchases of our products and services. while recent economic indicators suggest improvement in the united states and global economy, we cannot predict the duration or extent of any economic recovery or the extent to which our customers will return to more normalized spending behaviors. if the recessionary conditions worsen, our customers may terminate existing purchase orders or reduce the volume of products or services they purchase from us. adverse economic and financial market conditions may also cause our suppliers to be unable to meet their commitments to us or may cause them to make changes in the credit terms they extend to us, such as shortening the required payment period for our accounts payable or reducing the maximum amount of trade credit available to us. these types of actions could significantly affect our liquidity and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. additionally, our customers, particularly in the european region, have extended or delayed payments for products and services already provided, which may lead to collectability concerns regarding our accounts receivable from these customers. we currently do not foresee any difficulties in meeting our cash requirements or accessing credit as needed in the next twelve months. to date, we have not experienced an inordinate amount of payment defaults by our customers, and we have sufficient lending commitments in place to enable us to fund our anticipated additional operating needs. however, in light of the ongoing volatility in the domestic and global financial markets, including the european sovereign debt crisis, combined with a continuation of constrained global credit markets there is a risk that our customers and suppliers may be unable to access liquidity. as of december 31, 2012 and december 31, 2011, our aggregate net receivables in italy, spain, portugal and greece were $101.0 million and $108.5 million, respectively. in 2012, 2011 and 2010, net revenues from these countries was approximately 9% of total net revenues in each of the years, and average days that accounts receivable were outstanding were 288, 318 and 217 days, respectively. although we maintain allowances for doubtful accounts to cover the estimated losses which may occur when customers cannot make their required payments, we cannot be assured that we will continue to experience the same loss rate in the future given the volatility in the worldwide economy. if our allowance for doubtful 18 table of contents accounts is insufficient to address receivables we ultimately determine are uncollectible, we would be required to incur additional charges, which could materially adversely affect our operating results. moreover, our inability to collect outstanding receivables could adversely affect our financial condition and cash flow from operations. in addition, adverse economic and financial market conditions may result in future charges to recognize impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets, which would not directly affect our liquidity but could have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results. we are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse laws, regulation and enforcement; our failure to comply with those laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse regulation and enforcement by the federal government and the states and foreign governments in which we conduct our business. the laws that may affect our ability to operate include: the federal healthcare programs anti-kickback law, which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully offering or paying remuneration to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as the medicare and medicaid programs, or soliciting payment for such referrals, purchases, orders and recommendations; federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, false or fraudulent claims for payment from medicare, medicaid, or other third-party payors; the federal health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996 ( hipaa ), which prohibit schemes to defraud any healthcare benefit program and false statements relating to healthcare matters; and state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers. if our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, the exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs and imprisonment, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. the risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. further, the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education affordability reconciliation act (collectively, the healthcare reform act ), imposes new reporting and disclosure requirements on device manufacturers for any transfer of value made or distributed to prescribers and other healthcare providers, effective march 30, 2013. such information will be made publicly available in a searchable format beginning september 30, 2013. in addition, device manufacturers will also be required to report and disclose any investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members during the preceding calendar year. failure to submit required information may result in civil monetary penalties of up to an aggregate of $150,000 per year (and up to an aggregate of $1 million per year for knowing failures ), for all payments, transfers of value or ownership or investment interests not reported in an annual submission. in addition, there has been a recent trend of increased federal and state regulation of payments made to healthcare providers. some states, such as california, massachusetts and vermont, mandate implementation of compliance programs that include the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation 19 table of contents for consulting and other services, and other remuneration to healthcare providers. the shifting commercial compliance environment and the need to build and maintain robust and expandable systems to comply with multiple jurisdictions with different compliance and/or reporting requirements increases the possibility that a healthcare company may run afoul of one or more of the requirements and may result in increased compliance costs, which could adversely impact our results of operations. health care reform may have a material adverse effect on our industry and our business. political, economic and regulatory developments have effected fundamental changes in the healthcare industry. the healthcare reform act, enacted in march 2010, substantially changes the way health care is financed by both government and private insurers, encourages improvements in the quality of health care products and services, and significantly impacts the u.s. pharmaceutical and medical device industries. among other things, the healthcare reform act: establishes a 2.3% deductible excise tax on sales of medical devices with respect to any entity that manufactures or imports specified medical devices offered for sale in the united states, beginning in 2013; establishes a new patient-centered outcomes research institute to oversee, identify priorities in and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research; implements payment system reforms, including a national pilot program to encourage hospitals, physicians and other providers to improve the coordination, quality and efficiency of certain health care services through bundled payment models; and creates an independent payment advisory board that will submit recommendations to reduce medicare spending if projected medicare spending exceeds a specified growth rate. based on our current product portfolio and sales volumes, we currently estimate the impact of the 2.3% deductible excise tax to be approximately $15.0 million annually. however, we cannot predict at this time the full impact of the healthcare reform act or other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. we depend upon relationships with physicians and other health care professionals. research and development for some of our products is dependent on our maintaining strong working relationships with physicians and other healthcare professionals. we rely on these professionals to provide us with considerable knowledge and experience regarding the development and use of our products. physicians assist us as researchers, product consultants, inventors and public speakers. if we fail to maintain our working relationships with physicians and receive the benefits of their knowledge and advice, our products may not be developed in a manner that is responsive to the needs and expectations of the professionals who use and support our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to risks associated with our non-u.s. operations. we have significant manufacturing and distribution facilities, research and development facilities, sales personnel and customer support operations outside the united states in a number of countries, including canada, belgium, the czech republic, france, germany, ireland, malaysia, mexico, and singapore. as of december 31, 2012, approximately 39% of our net property, plant and equipment was located outside the united states and 73% of our full-time and temporary employees were employed in countries outside of the united states. in addition, in 2012, approximately 49% of our net revenues (based on business unit location) were derived from operations outside the united states. our international operations are subject to risks inherent in doing business outside the united states, including: exchange controls, currency restrictions and fluctuations in currency values; trade protection measures; 20 table of contents potentially costly and burdensome import or export requirements; laws and business practices that favor local companies; changes in non-u.s. medical reimbursement policies and procedures; subsidies or increased access to capital for firms that currently are or may emerge as competitors in countries in which we have operations; substantial foreign tax liabilities, including potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; restrictions and taxes related to the repatriation of foreign earnings; differing labor regulations; additional u.s. and foreign government controls or regulations; difficulties in the protection of intellectual property; and unsettled political and economic conditions and possible terrorist attacks against american interests. in addition, the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (the fcpa ) and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws in non-u.s. jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-u.s. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. the fcpa also imposes accounting standards and requirements on publicly traded u.s. corporations and their foreign affiliates, which, among other things, are intended to prevent the diversion of corporate funds to the payment of bribes and other improper payments, and to prevent the establishment of off the books slush funds from which such improper payments can be made. because of the predominance of government-sponsored health care systems around the world, many of our customer relationships outside of the united states are with governmental entities and are therefore subject to such anti-bribery laws. our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. however, despite meaningful measures that we undertake to facilitate lawful conduct, which include training and compliance programs and internal control policies and procedures, we may not always prevent reckless or criminal acts by our employees or agents, or employees or agents of businesses or operations we may acquire. violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our operations, involve significant management distraction and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we also could be subject to severe penalties, including criminal and civil penalties, disgorgement, further changes or enhancements to our procedures, policies and controls, personnel changes and other remedial actions. furthermore, we are subject to the export controls and economic embargo rules and regulations of the united states, including the export administration regulations and trade sanctions against embargoed countries, which are administered by the office of foreign assets control within the department of the treasury, as well as other laws and regulations administered by the department of commerce. these regulations limit our ability to market, sell, distribute or otherwise transfer our products or technology to prohibited countries or persons. while we train our employees and contractually obligate our distributors to comply with these regulations, we cannot assure that a violation will not occur, whether knowingly or inadvertently. failure to comply with these rules and regulations may result in substantial civil and criminal penalties, including fines and the disgorgement of profits, the imposition of a court-appointed monitor, the denial of export privileges and debarment from participation in u.s. government contracts. the risks relating to our foreign operations may have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our business, results of operations and financial condition generally. 21 table of contents foreign currency exchange rate, commodity price and interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. we expect revenue from products manufactured in, and sold into, non-u.s. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our net revenue. our consolidated financial statements reflect translation of financial statements denominated in non-u.s. currencies to u.s. dollars, our reporting currency. when the u.s. dollar strengthens or weakens in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries where we sell or manufacture our products, such as the euro, our u.s. dollar-reported revenue and income will fluctuate. although we have entered into forward contracts with several major financial institutions to hedge a portion of projected cash flows denominated in non-functional currency in order to reduce the effects of currency rate fluctuations, changes in the relative values of currencies may, in some instances, have a significant effect on our results of operations. many of our products have significant plastic resin content. we also use quantities of other commodities, such as aluminum. increases in the prices of these commodities could increase the costs of our products and services. we may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers, particularly with respect to those products we sell under group purchase agreements, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. increases in interest rates may adversely affect the financial health of our customers and suppliers and thus adversely affect their ability to buy our products and supply the components or raw materials we need, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. fluctuations in our effective tax rate and changes to tax laws may adversely affect our results. as a company with significant operations outside of the united states, we are subject to taxation in numerous countries, states and other jurisdictions. our effective tax rate is derived from a combination of applicable tax rates in the various countries, states and other jurisdictions in which we operate. in preparing our financial statements, we estimate the amount of tax that will become payable in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. our effective tax rate may, however, differ from the estimated amount due to numerous factors, including a change in the mix of our profitability from country to country, changes in accounting for income taxes and changes in tax laws. any of these factors could cause us to experience an effective tax rate significantly different from previous periods or our current expectations, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. in addition, unfavorable results of tax audits and changes in tax laws in jurisdictions in which we operate could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. our technology is important to our success, and our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could put us at a competitive disadvantage. we rely on the patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws of the united states and other countries to protect our proprietary rights. although we own numerous u.s. and foreign patents and have submitted numerous patent applications, we cannot be assured that any pending patent applications will issue, or that any patents, issued or pending, will provide us with any competitive advantage or will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties. in addition, we rely on confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with employees and take other measures to protect our know-how and trade secrets. the steps we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of our technology by competitors or other persons who may copy or otherwise obtain and use these products or technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the united states. there is no guarantee that current and former employees, contractors and other parties will not breach their confidentiality agreements with us, misappropriate proprietary information or copy or otherwise obtain and use our information and proprietary technology without 22 table of contents authorization or otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. moreover, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop the know-how and trade secrets or develop better technology than our own, which could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we have developed. our inability to protect our proprietary technology could adversely affect our business. our products or processes may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to pay unexpected litigation costs or damages or prevent us from selling our products. we cannot be certain that our products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of our business, including claims of alleged infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties. any such claims, whether or not meritorious, could result in litigation and divert the efforts of our personnel. if we are found liable for infringement, we may be required to enter into licensing agreements (which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all) or to pay damages and to cease making or selling certain products. we may need to redesign some of our products or processes to avoid future infringement liability. any of the foregoing could be detrimental to our business. other pending and future litigation may lead us to incur significant costs and have an adverse effect on our business. we also are party to various lawsuits and claims arising in the normal course of business involving, among other things, contracts, intellectual property, import and export regulations, employment and environmental matters. the defense of these lawsuits may divert our management attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. in addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. while we do not believe that any litigation in which we are currently engaged would have such an adverse effect, the outcome of litigation, including regulatory matters, is often difficult to predict, and we cannot assure that the outcome of pending or future litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. we are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things: the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; and the health and safety of our employees. these laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or will not adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. moreover, we may become subject to additional environmental claims, which may include claims for personal injury or cleanup, based on our past, present or future business activities, which could also adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our workforce covered by collective bargaining and similar agreements could cause interruptions in our provision of products and services. for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2012, approximately 5% of our net revenues were generated by operations for which a significant part of our workforce is covered by collective bargaining 23 table of contents agreements and similar agreements in foreign jurisdictions. it is likely that a portion of our workforce will remain covered by collective bargaining and similar agreements for the foreseeable future. strikes or work stoppages could occur that would adversely impact our relationships with our customers and our ability to conduct our business. our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. as of december 31, 2012, we had total consolidated indebtedness of $970.0 million. our substantial level of indebtedness increases the risk that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay amounts due in respect of our indebtedness. it could also have significant effects on our business. for example, it could: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; limit our ability to borrow additional funds for such general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; restrict us from exploiting business opportunities; and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness. if we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or if future borrowings are not available to us in an amount sufficient to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs, we may be forced to: refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before the maturity thereof; sell assets; reduce or delay capital expenditures; or seek to raise additional capital. we may not be able to effect any of these actions on commercially reasonable terms or at all. our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our financial condition at the time, the restrictions in the instruments governing our outstanding indebtedness and other factors, including market conditions. our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt service obligations, or to refinance or restructure our obligations on commercially reasonable terms or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our debt agreements impose restrictions on our business, which could prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking some corporate actions and may adversely affect our ability to respond to changes in our business and manage our operations. the credit agreement governing our credit facilities and the indenture governing our 6.875% senior subordinated notes contain covenants that, among other things, impose significant restrictions on our business. the restrictions that these covenants place on us and our restricted subsidiaries include limitations on our and their ability to: incur additional indebtedness or issue disqualified stock or preferred stock; create liens; 24 table of contents pay dividends, make investments or make other restricted payments; sell assets; merge, consolidate, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; enter into transactions with our affiliates; permit layering of debt; designate subsidiaries as unrestricted; and use the proceeds of permitted sales of our assets. in addition, the credit agreement governing our credit facilities also contains financial covenants. a breach of any covenants under any one or more of these debt agreements could result in a default, which if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all our debts. in addition, any debt agreements we enter into in the future may further limit our ability to enter into certain types of transactions. we may not pay dividends on our common stock in the future. holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends only as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. the declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including our financial condition, earnings, compliance with debt instruments, legal requirements and other factors as our board of directors deems relevant. we cannot assure you that our cash dividend will not be reduced, or eliminated, in the future. the contingent conversion features of our convertible notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition. in august 2010, we issued $400 million in aggregate principal amount of convertible senior subordinated notes due 2017, which we refer to as the convertible notes. the convertible notes are convertible under certain circumstances, including the attainment of 130% of the conversion price (approximately $79.72) of the company closing stock price during a certain number of days at the end of a fiscal quarter. the company closing stock price has recently approached this amount, which increases the possibility that the convertible notes could become convertible in the near future, at which point the convertible notes would be classified as a current liability and would result in a material reduction of our net working capital. the company has elected a net settlement method to satisfy its conversion obligation, under which the company may settle the principal amount of the convertible notes in cash and settle the excess conversion value in shares, plus cash in lieu of fractional shares. the company believes that it has the ability to raise sufficient cash to repay the principal amounts due through a combination of utilizing our existing cash on hand, accessing our credit facility, or raising money in the capital markets, however, doing so could adversely affect our results of operations and liquidity. see convertible notes under note 9 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for a further discussion regarding the conversion terms of the convertible notes. the convertible note hedge transactions and warrant transactions entered into in connection with the issuance of our convertible notes may affect the value of our common stock. in connection with our issuance of the convertible notes, we entered into privately negotiated hedge transactions with third parties, which we refer to as the hedge counterparties. the hedge transactions cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, the number of shares of our common stock that underlie the convertible notes and are expected to reduce our exposure to potential dilution with respect to our common stock and/or reduce our exposure to potential cash 25 table of contents payments that may be required to be made by us upon conversion of the convertible notes. separately, we also entered into privately negotiated warrant transactions relating to the same number of shares of our common stock with the hedge counterparties with a strike price of $74.648, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, pursuant to which we may be obligated to issue shares of our common stock. the warrant transactions could have a dilutive effect with respect to our common stock or, if we so elect, obligate us to make cash payments to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock exceeds the strike price of the warrants on any expiration date of the warrants. in connection with establishing its initial hedges of the convertible note hedge transactions and the warrant transactions, the hedge counterparties (and/or their affiliates) entered into various cash-settled over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to our common stock concurrently with, or shortly following, the pricing of the convertible notes. the hedge counterparties (and/or their affiliates) may, in their sole discretion, with or without notice, modify their hedge positions from time to time (and are likely to do so during any conversion period related to the conversion of the convertible notes) by entering into or unwinding various over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to shares of our common stock, and/or by purchasing or selling shares of our common stock or convertible notes in privately negotiated transactions and/or open market transactions. the effect, if any, of these transactions and activities on the market price of our common stock will depend in part on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time, but any of these activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock. we are subject to counterparty risk with respect to the convertible note hedge transactions. each hedge counterparty is a financial institution or the affiliate of a financial institution, and we will be subject to the risk that one or more hedge counterparties may default under the convertible note hedge transactions. our exposure to the credit risk of each hedge counterparty will not be secured by any collateral. if a hedge counterparty becomes subject to insolvency proceedings, we will become an unsecured creditor in those proceedings with a claim equal to our exposure at that time under the convertible note hedge transaction with that hedge counterparty. our exposure will depend on many factors but, generally, the increase in our exposure will be correlated to the increase in our stock market price and in volatility of our common stock. in addition, upon a default by a hedge counterparty, we may suffer adverse tax consequences and dilution with respect to our common stock. we can provide no assurances as to the financial stability or viability of the hedge counterparties. we may issue additional shares of our common stock or instruments convertible into our common stock, including in connection with conversions of our convertible notes, which could lower the price of our common stock. we are not restricted from issuing additional shares of our common stock or other instruments convertible into our common stock. as of december 31, 2012, we had outstanding approximately 41.0 million shares of our common stock, options to purchase approximately 1.1 million shares of our common stock (of which approximately 0.6 million were vested as of that date), approximately 0.4 million of restricted stock awards (which are expected to vest over the next three years) and approximately 20,000 shares of our common stock to be distributed from our deferred compensation plan. in addition, a substantial number of shares of our common stock is reserved for issuance upon the exercise of stock options, upon conversion of the convertible notes and upon the exercise of the warrants issued in connection with the convertible notes. we cannot predict the size of future issuances or the effect, if any, that they may have on the market price for our common stock. if we issue additional shares of our common stock or instruments convertible into our common stock, it may materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock. furthermore, the conversion of some or all of the convertible notes may dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders, and any sales in the public market of such shares of our common stock issuable upon any conversion of the convertible notes could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. in addition, the anticipated issuance and sale of substantial amounts of common stock or 26 table of contents conversion of the convertible notes into shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock. certain provisions of our corporate governing documents, delaware law and our convertible notes could discourage, delay, or prevent a merger or acquisition. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock. for example, our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to determine the number of shares in a series, the consideration, dividend rights, liquidation preferences, terms of redemption, conversion or exchange rights and voting rights, if any, of unissued series of preferred stock, without any vote or action by our stockholders. thus, our board of directors can authorize and issue shares of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting or other rights of holders of our common stock. we are also subject to section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our common stock. these provisions could have the effect of delaying or deterring a third party to acquire us even if an acquisition might be in the best interest of our stockholders, and accordingly could reduce the market price of our common stock. certain provisions in the convertible notes and the indenture governing the convertible notes could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. for example, if an acquisition event constitutes a fundamental change, as defined in the indenture, holders of the convertible notes will have the right to require us to purchase their notes in cash. in addition, if an acquisition event constitutes a make-whole fundamental change, as defined in the indenture, we may be required to increase the conversion rate for holders who convert their notes in connection with such acquisition event. in either case, and in other cases, our obligations under the convertible notes and the indenture could increase the cost of acquiring us or otherwise discourage a third party from acquiring us or removing incumbent management, and accordingly could reduce the market price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk we are exposed to certain financial risks, specifically fluctuations in market interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and, to a lesser extent, commodity prices. we use derivative financial instruments to manage or reduce the impact of some of these risks. we do not enter into derivative instruments for trading purposes. we are also exposed to changes in the market traded price of our common stock as it influences the valuation of stock options and their effect on earnings. interest rate risk we are exposed to changes in interest rates as a result of our borrowing activities and our cash balances. the table below provides information regarding the amortization and related interest rates by year of maturity for our fixed and variable rate debt obligations. variable interest rates shown below are the weighted average rates of the debt portfolio based on interest rates in effect on december 31, 2012. year of maturity 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 thereafter total (dollars in thousands) fixed rate debt $ $ $ $ $ 400,000 $ 250,000 $ 650,000 average interest rate 3.875 % 6.875 % 5.03 % variable rate debt $ 4,700 $ 375,000 $ $ $ $ $ 379,700 average interest rate 1.0 % 2.75 % 2.73 % a change of 1.0% in variable interest rates would adversely or positively impact our expected net earnings by approximately $2.4 million for the year ended december 31, 2013. foreign currency risk we are exposed to currency fluctuations in connection with transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of certain subsidiaries. we have entered into forward contracts with several major financial institutions to hedge a portion of projected cash flows from these exposures. these are primarily contracts to buy or sell a foreign currency against the u.s. dollar or the euro. the fair value of the open forward contracts as of december 31, 2012 was a net loss of $0.4 million. the following table provides information regarding our open forward currency contracts as of december 31, 2012, which mature in 2013. forward contract notional amounts presented below are expressed in the stated currencies. the total notional amount for all contracts translates to approximately $66.9 million. 60 table of contents forward currency contracts: buy/(sell) (in thousands) japanese yen (230,699 ) united states dollars (15,600 ) euros (9,332 ) british pound (1,440 ) mexican peso 92,842 czech koruna 143,511 chinese renminbi (47,269 ) singapore dollar 27,000 south african rand (9,225 ) malaysian ringgits 31,685 canadian dollars (4,919 ) a strengthening of 10% in the value of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies would, on a combined basis, adversely impact the translation of our non-us subsidiary net earnings and transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of certain subsidiaries by approximately $12.1 million for the year ended december 31, 2013.