risk factors 16 risk factors of this report. all forward-looking statements are qualified by, and should be read in conjunction with, those risk factors. forward-looking statements are made in reliance on the safe harbor provisions of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended (the securities act ), and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the exchange act ), and are made as of the date of filing of this report, and we disclaim any intention or obligation, other than imposed by law, to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or developments or otherwise, after the date of filing of this report or, in the case of any document incorporated by reference, the date of that document. amounts contained in this report may not always add to totals due to rounding. part i item 1. business. harris harris corporation, together with its subsidiaries, is a leading technology innovator, solving government and commercial customers' toughest mission-critical challenges by providing solutions that connect, inform and protect. we support customers in more than 100 countries and, as of the end of fiscal 2016 , had approximately 21,000 employees, including approximately 9,000 engineers and scientists. we serve both domestic and international customers with products, systems and services that have defense and civil government applications, as well as commercial applications, with our largest customers being u.s. government customers and their prime contractors. harris corporation was incorporated in delaware in 1926 as the successor to three companies founded in the 1890s. our principal executive offices are located at 1025 west nasa boulevard, melbourne, florida 32919, and our telephone number is (321) 727-9100. our common stock is listed on the new york stock exchange under the symbol hrs. unless the context otherwise requires, the terms we, our, us, company and harris as used in this report refer to harris corporation and its subsidiaries. general we structure our operations primarily around the products and services we sell and the markets we serve. we implemented a new organizational structure effective at the beginning of fiscal 2016, which resulted in changes to our operating segments, which are also our reportable segments and are referred to as our business segments. as a result, for fiscal 2016 we reported the financial results of our continuing operations in the following four business segments: communication systems, serving markets in tactical communications and defense and public safety networks; space and intelligence systems, providing complete earth observation, environmental, geospatial, space protection, and intelligence solutions from advanced sensors and payloads, as well as ground processing and information analytics; electronic systems, offering an extensive portfolio of solutions in electronic warfare, avionics, wireless technology, command, control, communications, computers and intelligence ( c4i ) and undersea systems; and critical networks, providing managed services supporting air traffic management, energy and maritime communications, and ground network operation and sustainment, as well as high-value information technology ( it ) and engineering services. table of contents the historical results, discussion and presentation of our business segments as set forth in this report reflect the impact of these changes for all periods presented in order to present all segment information on a comparable basis. there is no impact on our previously reported consolidated statements of income, balance sheets or statements of cash flows resulting from these changes. financial information about our business segments financial information with respect to our business segments, including revenue, operating income or loss and total assets, and with respect to our operations outside the united states, is contained in note 24: business segments in the notes to consolidated financial statements in this report (the notes ) and is incorporated herein by reference. recent acquisitions and divestitures the following paragraphs summarize recent acquisitions and divestitures. for additional information related to acquisitions, see note 4: business combinations in the notes. for additional information related to divestitures, some of which were reported as discontinued operations, see note 3: discontinued operations and divestitures in the notes. acquisition of exelis inc. on may 29, 2015, we acquired publicly held exelis inc. (collectively with its subsidiaries, exelis ), a diversified, top-tier global aerospace, defense, information and services company leveraging its deep customer knowledge and technical expertise to deliver affordable, mission-critical solutions to military, government and commercial customers in the united states and globally. exelis was a leader in positioning and navigation, sensors, air traffic management solutions, image processing and distribution, communications and information systems; and focused on strategic growth in the areas of critical networks, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance ( isr ) and analytics, electronic warfare and composite aerostructures. each outstanding share of exelis common stock converted into the right to receive $16.625 in cash and 0.1025 of a share of harris common stock. upon closing, legacy harris shareholders owned 84 percent of the combined company and legacy exelis shareholders owned 16 percent. based on the closing price of $79.22 per share of harris common stock on the new york stock exchange on may 29, 2015, the date of the closing of the acquisition, the aggregate implied value of the consideration paid to former holders of exelis common stock in connection with the acquisition was approximately $4.7 billion, including approximately $1.5 billion in harris common stock and approximately $3.2 billion in cash (including cash paid in respect of share-based awards and net of cash acquired). the source of funds for such cash payment was cash on hand and third-party debt financing, including a combination of borrowings under our senior unsecured term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $1.3 billion and a portion of the proceeds from our issuance of debt securities in an aggregate principal amount of $2.4 billion. our acquisition of exelis created significantly greater scale, bringing together two engineering-driven companies that value technology leadership. together, the two companies' complementary technologies and capabilities strengthened core franchises and provide new opportunities for innovation to solve customers' most complex challenges. exelis had annual sales of $3.277 billion in calendar 2014. our consolidated financial statements in this report include operating results from exelis operations following may 29, 2015. divestiture of composite aerostructures business . on april 8, 2016, we completed the divestiture of our composite aerostructures business ( aerostructures ), which designed and manufactured technically advanced, lightweight composite aerospace assembly structures, sub-assemblies and components for defense and commercial industries. aerostructures was not strategic to our business and was part of our company as a result of our acquisition of exelis in may 2015. the operating results of aerostructures through the date of divestiture are reported as part of our electronic systems segment. divestiture of commercial healthcare solutions operation . on july 1, 2015, we completed the divestiture of our commercial healthcare solutions operation ( hcs ). the operating results of hcs through the date of divestiture were part of our former integrated network solutions segment, but are included as part of corporate in this report. divestiture of broadcast communications operation. in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, our board of directors approved a plan to divest our broadcast communications operation ( broadcast communications ), which provided digital media management solutions in support of broadcast customers, pursuant to which broadcast communications was reported as discontinued operations. in the third quarter of fiscal 2013, we completed the sale of broadcast communications to an affiliate of the gores group, llc (the buyer ). in the third quarter of fiscal 2016, a nationally recognized accounting firm previously appointed by us and the buyer rendered its final determination as to a dispute between us and the buyer over the amount of the post-closing working capital adjustment to the purchase price, and consequently, we recorded the related activity in discontinued operations for fiscal 2016. divestiture of cyber integrated solutions operation. in the third quarter of fiscal 2012, our board of directors approved a plan to exit our cyber integrated solutions operation ( cis ), which provided remote cloud hosting, and to dispose of the related assets, pursuant to which cis was reported as discontinued operations. we completed the sale of the remaining assets of cis in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 and received payment in full on a promissory note that formed part of the purchase price in the first quarter of fiscal 2015. we recorded the related activity in discontinued operations for the respective periods. 2 table of contents description of business by segment communication systems communication systems serves markets in tactical communications and defense and public safety networks. tactical communications: we are a leading global supplier of secure radio communications, tactical communication networks and embedded high-grade encryption solutions for a diverse portfolio of u.s. military and allied international forces and commercial customers. we design, develop and manufacture a comprehensive line of current and next-generation secure radio communications products and systems, with capabilities to operate across numerous radio frequency bands and using an extensive range of waveforms. our radio systems are highly flexible, interoperable and capable of supporting diverse mission requirements. most of our tactical radios are built on software-defined radio platforms that are reprogrammable to add features or software upgrades and also have the highest grade embedded encryption. our product capabilities include secure transmission of voice, high-speed data and full-motion video, including streaming video to the tactical edge of the battlefield. supporting virtually all military domains, our products include handheld, manpack and vehicular, fixed-site and airborne form factors. together, our products create a highly mobile, secure, reliable networked battlefield environment that connects land, air and sea echelons and does not rely on a fixed infrastructure. this networking capability allows warfighters, for example, to remain connected with each other and their command structures and support organizations and to communicate information and maintain situational awareness of both friendly and opposing forces, which are critical to mission safety and success. our radio systems have been widely deployed throughout all branches of the u.s. department of defense ( dod ) and, in the international market, have been sold to more than 100 countries through our international distribution channels consisting of regional sales offices and a broad dealer network and have become the standard in many of those countries. our next-generation radios include multiband, multi-mission, legacy-system compatible tactical radios, which address the full range of current mission and interoperability requirements and are fully upgradeable to address changing technical standards and mission requirements of the future. advances in these radios include the support of wideband networking waveforms, extended frequency range and significant reductions in size and weight compared with previous generations. wideband networking capability enables enhanced situational awareness through high-bandwidth applications such as streaming video, simultaneous voice and data feeds, collaborative chat and connectivity to secure networks. our comprehensive line of current and next-generation radios includes the following: our widely deployed single channel ground and airborne radio system ( sincgars ) family of backpack, vehicular-mounted, handheld and airborne radios currently used by u.s. and allied military forces these combat net radios, over 600,000 of which have been purchased and deployed worldwide, operate in the very high frequency band, have single-frequency and frequency-hopping modes, handle voice and data communications and are designed to be reliable, secure and easily maintained. our multiband manpack radio, the an/prc-117g, which is national security agency ( nsa ) type-1-certified for narrowband communications, as well as for wideband communications using our harris-developed adaptive networking wideband waveform for high bandwidth data operation and the u.s. military joint tactical radio system ( jtrs ) soldier radio waveform; our 2-channel vehicular radio system, the an/vrc-118, which uses the dod-developed wideband networking waveform and was selected as the u.s. army's solution for its jtrs mid-tier networking vehicular radio program; our multiband handheld radios, the an/prc-152, which is a widely fielded jtrs-approved software-defined handheld radio, and the an/prc-152a, which adds wideband, networked communications capability and supports both a full range of narrowband legacy waveforms and wideband networking waveforms in a handheld platform; our multi-channel manpack radio, the an/prc-158, which is a commercially developed, nsa type-1-certified radio offering two channels integrated into the same chassis; our wideband rifleman team radio, the rf-330e, which is the commercially developed u.s. variant of our widely fielded international soldier personal radio; our wideband ground radio family for international customers, the rf-7850x, which covers all echelons of the battlefield with soldier handheld, vehicular and fixed-site radio products; our wideband high frequency manpack radio, the rf-7800h, which is a wideband-capable tactical high frequency radio available to customers worldwide; our single-channel airborne radios, which include the nsa type-1-certified rf-300m-dl small secure data link multiband radio for integration in size, weight and power-constrained environments, as well as the arc-201d and arc-201e radios for dod and international very high frequency network interoperability; and our multi-channel airborne radios, which include the rf-7850a for interoperability with our rf-7800 family of international ground radios, as well as a 2-channel airborne radio platform we provide to viasat, inc. to be built into the kor-24a multi-channel, link-16 small tactical terminal. 3 table of contents unlike many of our competitors operating on a government-funded programs-driven business model, we operate in this market principally on a commercial customer-driven business model. this means that we anticipate market needs, invest our internal research and development resources, build to our internal forecast and provide ready-to-ship, commercial off-the-shelf ( cots ) products to customers, enabling us to bring products to market faster and adapt to changing customer requirements. the u.s. market is undergoing a modernization cycle driven by wideband technology, and we believe that demand in the international market is being driven not only by the transition to wideband capability, but also by the need for network system solutions. we believe our commercial business model that drives speed and innovation, coupled with the scale provided by our international presence, will continue to make us competitive in the global market. we have been investing to position ourselves for tactical radio modernization opportunities, including in our next-generation manpack and rifleman radio solutions for the jtrs handheld, manpack and small form fit ( hms ) program. our investments also include incorporating the powerful mobile user objective system ( muos ) waveform for the dod's next-generation military satellite communication ( satcom ) system. we are embedding muos capability in our multi-channel manpack radio, as well as offering it as a separate, simple and fast software upgrade for our widely fielded single-channel multiband manpack radio, which we believe creates an opportunity for the dod to transition its existing inventory of those radios to muos capability and quickly maximize the use of the satellite infrastructure. we also believe the demand to extend ground tactical networks to the air, combined with our arc-201 sincgars airborne radios, creates opportunities for us in manned and unmanned airborne applications. examples of significant recent awards for us include the following: a 10-year (5-year base, 5 option years), multi-award indefinite delivery indefinite quantity ( idiq ) contract from the u.s. army awarded in fiscal 2015 for rifleman radios and associated services under the jtrs hms program; a 10-year (5-year base, one 5-year option), multi-award idiq contract from the u.s. army awarded in fiscal 2016 for multi-channel manpack radios under the jtrs hms program; a 6-year, single-award idiq contract from the u.s. special operations command awarded in fiscal 2016 for a new integrated 2-channel handheld tactical radio; an increase in fiscal 2016 in the ceiling value of a previously awarded single-source idiq contract with the u.s. defense logistics agency to provide tactical radio spare parts to the u.s. army and federal civilian agencies; a 5-year, single-award follow-on foreign military sales idiq contract from u.s. army communications-electronics command ( cecom ) awarded in fiscal 2016 to supply tactical communications solutions; and a 5-year, single-award foreign military sales idiq contract to supply sincgars tactical solutions. we design and manufacture other communications-related products, including spearnet enhanced video on-board tactical wearable radios, which, when combined with night vision and intelligence dissemination products, forms the individual soldier system integrated solution. in addition, we produce high-performance, advanced, vision-enhancing products for u.s. and allied military and security forces and for first responders using our image intensification and sensor fusion technology. we develop, produce and supply generation 3 image intensification technology for u.s. and allied military and security forces. we provide an/pvs-14 and an/pvs-7 ground night vision goggles and spare image intensifier tubes to the u.s. and allied militaries, via foreign military sales, and we are the primary supplier to the u.s. military for the an/avs-6 and an/avs-9 aviation night vision goggles, which provide rotary- and fixed-wing aircraft pilots the ability to operate in extreme low-light situations. we also developed the enhanced night vision goggle ( envg ) system, which optically overlays traditional night vision imagery with long wave thermal infrared imagery. the envg system enables users to effectively operate in extreme low-light and obscured battlefield conditions. public safety and professional communications: we are a global supplier of secure communication systems and equipment for public safety, federal, utility, commercial and transportation organizations. we design, build, distribute, maintain and supply wireless communications systems. our voice, interoperability, data and access ( vida ) network platform is a unified internet protocol ( ip )-based voice and data communication system that provides network-level interoperable communications among public safety agencies by supporting a full line of communication systems, including networkfirst, p25 ip and enhanced digital access communication system. our vida network solutions currently serve as the backbone in some of the largest and most advanced statewide and regional communication networks in north america. we also are investing in next-generation, secure public safety-grade long term evolution ( lte ) solutions for voice, video and data applications. we offer a full range of single-band land mobile radio ( lmr ) terminals, as well as multiband radios that include a handheld radio and a full-spectrum mobile radio for vehicles. our multiband radios cover all public safety frequency bands in a single radio; operate on association of public safety communications officials - international ( apco ) p25 conventional and trunked systems; are backwards compatible with analog fm systems; and include advanced capabilities, such as an internal global positioning system receiver for situational awareness, internal secure bluetooth wireless technology and background 4 table of contents noise suppression features. they also include true software-defined radio architecture that allows flexibility for future growth, including a software-only upgrade to apco p25 phase 2, the next-generation standard for mission-critical communications. our radios' multiband, multi-mode capabilities enable a single radio to communicate with multiple organizations, jurisdictions and agencies operating on different frequencies and systems. in fiscal 2016, we introduced the xl-200p multiband radio, which has wifi, wifi hotspot and lte capabilities and push-to-talk voice over ip in both wifi and lte, providing first responders the ability to communicate freely outside of their lmr coverage jurisdiction. we also offer dispatch console systems. other examples of our public safety and professional communications solutions and services include the following: deploying digital trunked, statewide, multi-agency systems for the state of florida, the commonwealth of pennsylvania and the state of nevada; deploying large, wide-area and multi-state lmr systems for some of the largest utility companies in the u.s.; deploying for the dod-national capitol region network in the washington, d.c. area a wide-area, ip-based p25 network that links nearly 20 military bases, providing the u.s. army, navy, air force and marine corps with wireless communications on base and throughout the national capitol region, and that allows interoperability with local public safety agencies to provide one integrated regional network; designing and building the alberta first responders radio communications system that will provide public safety communications within the 256,000 square-mile province of alberta, canada; designing and deploying a vida network system for the trinidad and tobago ministry of national security that will improve voice and data communications and provide interoperability among first responders and the ministry's agencies; and designing, deploying and maintaining an apco p25 system for the new york metropolitan transportation authority police to connect their police operations throughout 14 counties in new york and connecticut and help them support more than 14 million daily commuters. revenue and operating income: revenue for our communication systems segment in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014 was $1.864 billion , $1.836 billion and $1.855 billion , respectively. segment operating income in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014 was $530 million , $563 million and $574 million , respectively. the percentage of our revenue contributed by this segment in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014 was 25 percent , 36 percent and 37 percent , respectively. the percentage of this segment's revenue in fiscal 2016 that was derived outside of the u.s. was approximately 51 percent. the percentage of this segment's revenue in fiscal 2016 that was derived from sales to u.s. government customers, including foreign military sales funded through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, was approximately 52 percent . for a general description of our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, including a discussion of revenue generated thereunder and of cost-reimbursable versus fixed-price contracts, see item 1. business - principal customers; government contracts of this report. in general, this segment's domestic products are sold and serviced directly to customers through its sales organization and through established distribution channels. internationally, this segment markets and sells its products and services through regional sales offices and established distribution channels. for a general description of our international business, see item 1. business - international business of this report. for a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, see item 1. business - principal customers; government contracts, item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this report. space and intelligence systems space and intelligence systems provides complete earth observation, environmental, geospatial, space protection, and intelligence solutions from advanced sensors and payloads, as well as ground processing and information analytics, for national security, defense, civil and commercial customers. our complete earth observation solutions encompass comprehensive space and airborne remote sensing capabilities, from end-to-end remote sensing systems for global and regional situational awareness that enable mission success to integrated processing solutions on the ground and on airborne platforms that extract critical information and reduce time to high-confidence decisions. we specialize in airborne and space-based remote sensing payloads that offer active and motion imaging as well as data processing, exploitation and dissemination. we also develop small, affordable, high-resolution, commercial imaging systems, and our imaging systems are integral components of u.s. high-resolution commercial remote sensing satellite systems. we provide space antenna systems and precision space structures. we are an experienced space reflector manufacturer and specialize in large, high-accuracy reflectors. from unfurlable and fixed-mesh reflector antennas to solid spot beam antennas, our solutions deliver significantly higher data rates and access greater amounts of bandwidth than standard satellite antenna technologies. 5 table of contents we design, develop, manufacture and integrate agile and high-performance modular, reconfigurable space payloads that maximize mission performance. we help our customers achieve their space missions more quickly and cost effectively by brokering, designing and integrating multimission satellite hosted payloads. for example, we supplied aireon, llc with automatic dependent surveillance-broadcast ( ads-b ) receiver payloads that will be part of a satellite-based aircraft tracking system to enhance global air traffic control. the payloads will be hosted on the iridium next satellite constellation, but will provide a capability separate from the main mission of the constellation. we are placing additional commercial missions on the iridium next constellation by partnering with exactearth ltd. to track maritime vessels. we provide quality optic solutions for industries such as aerospace, astronomy and microlithography. we manufacture a full range of precision optics and optical systems, including mirrors, mounts and metering structures, for space-based platforms as well as systems based on the ground, at sea and in the air, specializing in large precision optics. for example, we manufacture small to large optical flats for ground-based laser fusion programs, medium and large off-axis aspheric mirrors for orbiting telescopes, and a varying size range of spherical and aspherical mirrors for ground-based telescopes. our environmental solutions monitor and evaluate our global environment with ground-based and space-based remote sensing, change detection and data processing. we design, develop and build instruments to help measure, understand and monitor real-time weather and long-term climate cycles to support decision making for governmental agencies, scientists, businesses and policy makers. our technologies capture, analyze and visualize data from various altitudes to improve understanding of weather and climate and enhance earth observation. in space, advanced environmental satellite systems utilize our imagers and sounders to deliver weather and climate data back to earth at high resolutions and speeds. on the ground, our satellite ground data processing systems, consisting of complex suites of hardware and software, receive sensor data from satellites and turn it into actionable information. our weather ground systems, for example, are capable of handling multiple missions simultaneously across a common architecture and enable users to realize the full benefits of our new environmental imaging technology. our climate monitoring instruments help provide a complete picture of carbon dioxide cycles and other greenhouse gases from space, air and ground. an example of our capabilities is the solutions we provide under the national oceanic and atmospheric administration ( noaa ) geostationary operational environmental satellite - series r ( goes-r ) ground and antenna segment weather programs. we are providing a complete, end-to-end solution to design, develop, deploy and operate the ground segment system that will receive and process satellite data and generate and distribute weather data to more than 10,000 direct users, as well as providing the command and control of operational satellites. we also are supplying antennas and control systems that will provide communication links for command, telemetry and sensor data, as well as the communication link to direct data users. as an additional example, we are providing weather payloads for satellites for nasa's joint polar satellite system program. we provide integrated real-time, autonomous geospatial solutions, extending from image and data collection through processing, exploitation and dissemination of actionable intelligence. our specialized capabilities include highly reliable remote sensing systems for ground, air and space; data encryption; information processing; real-time forensic and predictive analytics; and system performance modeling and simulation. we also provide ground processing and analytics solutions that map and monitor earth for a variety of commercial and government users. our geospatial solutions suite of products and services are designed to make it easier and more cost effective for customers to analyze the physical environment and obtain actionable information for more informed decisions, through advanced data collection sources, innovative software tools, and high-volume, high-accuracy processing services. examples of these advanced products and solutions include: our envi image analysis software that analyzes virtually any geospatial data type; our geiger-mode light detection and ranging ( lidar ) sensor, which measures distance by illuminating a target with a laser light, that makes large-scale and high-density data collections possible at affordable prices; our jagwire web-based geospatial data management software that helps quickly discover data, transform it into information and deliver it to decision makers, even in low bandwidth environments; our imagery products for two of three regions for the foundation geoint content management ( fgcm ) program under two 5-year, single-award idiq contracts awarded in fiscal 2014 by the national geospatial-intelligence agency ( nga ); our geospatial marketplace that offers online access to geospatial imagery and data, off-the-shelf data products such as digital elevation models and orthomosaics, and customized geospatial products for visual simulation databases or to meet customer-specific project requirements; and tracking maritime vessels and delivering robust global shipping information through access to satellite automated identification system data. in order to help our u.s. government customers gain, maintain and exploit space superiority, we provide the full spectrum of enterprise architecture services that support the long-term planning, development, integration and sustainment of highly advanced, mission-critical space-based surveillance, communication, navigation and meteorology systems. we provide 6 table of contents space situational awareness and design, integrate and sustain offensive and defensive space control systems. for example, we sustain, maintain and modernize large radar installations globally and provide engineering support and sustainment for ground-based systems that support u.s. missile warning, missile defense and space surveillance missions for the u.s. air force under the system engineering and sustainment integrator ( sensor ) program. we also provide cots, highly flexible, satellite mission command and control ( c2 ) systems for government and commercial applications. our satellite mission c2 systems support single-satellite missions as well as some of the largest and most complex satellite fleets deployed. we develop, supply and integrate communication and information processing products, systems and networks for a diverse base of classified programs. serving primarily u.s. intelligence community customers, including the nsa, the nga, the national reconnaissance office and the defense intelligence agency, we provide integrated isr solutions that improve situational awareness, data collection accuracy and product analysis by correlating near real-time mission data and intelligence reference data for display and analysis by strategic and tactical planners and decision makers. in addition, we have advanced capabilities in the architecture, design and development of highly specialized satellite antennas, structures, phased arrays and on-board processors, which are used to enable next-generation satellite systems to provide the u.s. military and intelligence communities with strategic and tactical advantages. although classified programs generally are not discussed in this report, the operating results relating to classified programs are included in our consolidated financial statements. we believe that the business risks associated with our classified programs do not differ materially from the business risks associated with our other u.s. government programs. we are a global provider of positioning, navigation and timing ( pnt ) products, systems and solutions. for example, our u.s. global positioning system ( gps ) navigation systems comprise high-performance, reliable, cost-effective gps payload, control and interference location solutions. our navigation payload technology is an integral component of gps satellites and supports gps availability, accuracy and integrity. we currently are deploying advanced technologies under the gps iii program to improve the accuracy and reliability of the next generation of gps satellites. revenue and operating income: revenue for our space and intelligence systems segment in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014 was $1.899 billion , $1.007 billion and $0.966 billion , respectively. segment operating income in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014 was $294 million , $142 million and $128 million , respectively. the percentage of our revenue contributed by this segment in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014 was 25 percent , 20 percent and 19 percent , respectively. the percentages of this segment's revenue under contracts directly with end customers and under contracts with prime contractors in fiscal 2016 were approximately 72 percent and 28 percent, respectively. in fiscal 2016, this segment had a diverse portfolio of over 200 programs. some of this segment's more significant programs in fiscal 2016 included gps, goes-r, sensor, fgcm and various other classified programs. the percentages of this segment's revenue in fiscal 2016 represented by this segment's largest program by revenue and ten largest programs by revenue were approximately 12 percent and 56 percent, respectively. the percentage of this segment's revenue in fiscal 2016 that was derived from sales to u.s. government customers, including foreign military sales funded through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, was approximately 95 percent . for a general description of our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, including a discussion of revenue generated thereunder and of cost-reimbursable versus fixed-price contracts, see item 1. business - principal customers; government contracts of this report. for a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, see item 1. business - principal customers; government contracts, item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this report. electronic systems electronic systems offers an extensive portfolio of solutions in electronic warfare, avionics, wireless technology, c4i and undersea systems, for aviation, defense and maritime applications. we design, develop, produce and sell electronic warfare solutions for airborne, maritime and ground applications to most u.s. military service branches and to classified customers and allied nations. our electronic warfare capabilities include threat identification, electronic countermeasures, decoys and expendables, strategic and situational support, electronic attack, passive coastal defense, radar, counter-improvised explosive device ( ied ) and border surveillance. we have provided electronic warfare solutions for strategic and tactical fixed-wing and rotary aircraft such as the f/a-18, f-16, b1-b, b-52, c-130h, mh-60, mh-47 and cv-22 aircraft, and we also provide maritime electronic support measures ( esm ) for surface and subsurface vessels. examples of our airborne electronic warfare technology include sophisticated sensor fusion for multispectral situational awareness, as well as internal and podded self-protection and jamming capabilities. examples of our maritime electronic warfare technology include esm systems for situational awareness and threat detection, including emitter identification to support tactical decisions and indications of possible hostile intentions; integrated self-protection systems and decoys that operate at every layer of shipboard defense; and electronic attack capabilities to disrupt and deny enemy operations. an 7 table of contents example of our ground electronic warfare technology is counter-radio controlled ied technology that protects ground forces in asymmetrical combat environments by continually scanning for threatening radio frequency signals and denying enemy use of these portions of the electromagnetic spectrum, without disrupting friendly signals and keeping lines of communication open. we also develop and supply state-of-the-art wireless voice and data products and solutions. we design and manufacture high-performance radar systems and signal intelligence systems for both domestic and international military customers. our core radar capabilities include air defense radars, air traffic control ( atc ) radars and airborne multifunction radars. our advanced radar technologies support military and domestic operation missions in homeland security, law enforcement, search and rescue, disaster relief and environmental science. we provide electronic warfare and signals intelligence systems for reconnaissance and surveillance for electronic intelligence, esm, electronic counter measures and signals intelligence applications. we develop advanced, custom solutions which provide our government and commercial customers with self-protection, data protection, enhanced communications and situational awareness. we specialize in satellite-based communication systems, ground electronic warfare systems, commercial wireless technologies, tagging, tracking and locating, and information assurance. to combat the anti-access/area denial ( a2/ad ) threat, we leverage an adaptive multi-platform approach to ensure that users can connect and share data globally without being constrained by terrain or distance. we integrate data devices into a2/ad-resilient architectures which provide a secure global backbone for c4isr capabilities against sophisticated adversaries. we have decades of experience designing, testing and integrating advanced avionics equipment, electronics and software, including cockpit communications, digital maps, processors, sensors, data buses, fiber optics, microelectronics and conformal wideband antennas. we are a supplier of avionics systems and products on a variety of aircraft platforms, including the f-35 joint strike fighter ( f-35 ) and the f/a-18e/f super hornet. for f-35 and f/a-18e/f super hornet aircraft, we provide high-performance, advanced avionics such as high-speed fiber optic networking and switching, intra-flight data links, image processing, digital map software and other electronic components, including multifunction advanced data link communication subsystems primarily intended for stealth platform air-to-air communications with other network nodes without revealing positions. our advanced antenna technologies provide communication, navigation, direction-finding and electronic warfare capabilities for military aircraft. we design and produce aircraft carriage and release equipment and weapons interface systems for fighter jets, surveillance aircraft and unmanned aerial vehicles for the u.s. military and allied forces. our carriage and release technology provides capabilities necessary for aircraft to successfully deliver mission payloads and support a variety of aircraft stores, including weapons, sonobuoys, electronics pods, fuel tanks and even unmanned vehicles. our racks and launchers are components on aircraft including the f-35, f-22 raptor, f/a-18e/f super hornet, f-15e strike eagle, f-16 fighting falcon, p-8a poseidon and mq-9 reaper. in addition to current pyrotechnic release technology, we have developed next-generation pneumatic and electronically actuated release systems. our control electronics provide aircraft with the ability to communicate directly with smart and precision-guidance payloads and create compatibility between a wide range of stores and platforms. we provide c4i solutions based on our major technology capabilities that include advanced ground control systems; satcom terminals for highly mobile, man-portable tactical, strategic fixed-site ground installation and shipboard receiver applications; and integrated battlefield management systems. our satcom terminals connect forces with communication satellites to deliver mission-critical data, including high-resolution imagery and video requiring enormous bandwidth, securely and reliably to any platform. as an example, under the u.s. army modernization of enterprise terminals ( met ) program, we developed, next-generation large satellite earth stations to provide the worldwide backbone for high-priority military communications and missile defense systems and to support ip and dedicated circuit connectivity within the global information grid, providing critical reach-back capability for the warfighter. we also provide integrated battlefield management systems for u.s. and allied military forces that integrate data from a variety of platforms and sensors in order to support planning and execution of operations, including terrain analysis, route management and global distribution of tactical and operational information, and to help military forces digitize their operations, providing a continuous, real-time platform for situational awareness and staff functions, including hostile and blue force tracking, radio communications, planning, personnel, intelligence, local weather and other data. we supply to the u.s. navy and allied navies a broad range of undersea warfare systems for maritime platforms and environments, including mine sweeping systems, shipboard command and control systems, anti-submarine warfare sonar systems, data link systems, submarine flank and passive towed arrays, and acoustic sensors for military and commercial uses. we produce influence and mechanical mine sweeping systems and mine countermeasures that detect and neutralize subsurface threats to military and commercial maritime vessels. for example, our minesweeping technologies identify and safely detonate acoustic, magnetic and multiple influence sea mines to enable naval operations and keep commercial vessels safe. our transducer arrays used in sonar and acoustic systems support navigation and situational awareness, through search, detection, tracking and classification of targets, as well as capabilities for anti-submarine and torpedo self-defense. as noted above, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016, we completed the divestiture of aerostructures. 8 table of contents revenue and operating income: revenue for our electronic systems segment in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014 was $1.530 billion , $0.584 billion and $0.420 billion , respectively. segment operating income in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014 was $277 million , $97 million and $72 million , respectively. the percentage of our revenue contributed by this segment in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014 was 20 percent , 11 percent and 8 percent , respectively. the percentages of this segment's revenue under contracts directly with end customers and under contracts with prime contractors in fiscal 2016 were approximately 54 percent and 46 percent, respectively. in fiscal 2016, this segment had a diverse portfolio of over 200 programs. some of this segment's more significant programs in fiscal 2016 included f/a-18e/f, met and f-35. the percentages of this segment's revenue in fiscal 2016 represented by this segment's largest program by revenue and ten largest programs by revenue were approximately 10 percent and 48 percent, respectively. the percentage of this segment's revenue in fiscal 2016 that was derived from sales to u.s. government customers, including foreign military sales funded through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, was approximately 80 percent . for a general description of our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, including a discussion of revenue generated thereunder and of cost-reimbursable versus fixed-price contracts, see item 1. business - principal customers; government contracts of this report. for a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, see item 1. business - principal customers; government contracts, item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this report. critical networks critical networks provides managed services supporting air traffic management, energy and maritime communications, and ground network operation and sustainment, as well as high-value it and engineering services, to government and commercial customers. our managed services supporting air traffic management include implementing and managing large, complex programs that integrate secure, advanced, standards-based communications and information processing technologies in order to provide highly reliable, customized, mission-critical communication systems, information networks for voice, data and video and navigation and surveillance solutions that meet the most demanding needs of our customers, including the federal aviation administration ( faa ) and other civil and military air navigation service providers ( ansps ), airports, airlines and system integrators. our networks and information systems for large-scale, geographically dispersed enterprises offer advanced capabilities for collecting, processing, analyzing, interpreting, displaying, distributing, storing and retrieving data. as an example of our capabilities, we are the prime contractor and system architect for the faa telecommunications infrastructure ( fti ) program to integrate, modernize, operate and maintain the communications infrastructure for the u.s. air traffic control system. we designed and deployed, and are currently operating and maintaining, the fti network, which is a fully operational, modern, secure and efficient network providing voice, data and video communications deployed at approximately 4,500 faa sites across the u.s. (including administrative sites supported by the fti network). as part of the faa's next generation air transportation system ( nextgen ) initiative to transform the u.s. air traffic control system to meet future requirements, we are: transforming voice-based air traffic control to automated air traffic management under the data communications integrated services ( datacomm ) program (including the data communications network service component); delivering systems for modern voice over internet protocol ( voip ) communications among air traffic controllers, pilots and ground personnel under the national airspace system ( nas ) voice system contract; designing and implementing a system that provides real-time weather information across the nas under the common support services weather program; providing enterprise-wide data sharing for a variety of critical information such as flight planning, traffic flow, surface radar and weather under a nas enterprise messaging service idiq contract for the systems wide information management program; and designing, building and operating a nationwide system of radio communications, telecommunications networks, it and software to deliver highly accurate, networked, real-time surveillance data to the automated systems of the faa, as the prime contractor on the ads-b program to modernize from a ground-based to a satellite-based system of air traffic management. we also have developed a number of other solutions under faa programs, including a voice switching and control system providing the critical air-to-ground communication links between en-route aircraft and air traffic controllers throughout the continental u.s.; an integrated weather briefing and flight planning system for alaska's general aviation community; a meteorological data processing system that generates radar mosaic data for air traffic controller displays and delivers weather data to critical subsystems within the nas; and a satellite-based, interfacility communication system linking the alaskan air route traffic control center in anchorage with faa facilities throughout the region. 9 table of contents we have extended our integrated network systems capabilities to the commercial aviation market with a comprehensive, web-based application suite called symphony , which enables key business functions, such as flight information display systems, billing, auditing, resource allocation, environmental monitoring and situational awareness, for airports and airlines to improve efficiencies in their operations. our managed services supporting space and ground networks operation and sustainment include design, operations, maintenance, lifecycle sustainment, logistics and advanced engineering services for secure systems and networks to deliver actionable information to advance government missions. for example: for the deep space network ( dsn ) at the jet propulsion laboratory ( jpl ) and nasa, we operate and maintain the large antennas for the dsn, as well as multiple network and communication systems, several network operations centers and facilities for testing, logistics and maintenance and repair; and we provide maintenance, operations and engineering support for jpl's goldstone, california complex. the dsn is an international communication network that supports interplanetary, robotic spacecraft missions conducting radio, radar and astronomy observations of the solar system and beyond and that provides connectivity with the spacecraft and their data-gathering instruments. we provide near-earth spacecraft connectivity for nasa as the prime contractor on the space communications network services ( scns ) program for the goddard space flight center, which provides most of the communications and tracking services for a wide range of earth-orbiting spacecraft, such as the international space station, the hubble space telescope and the earth observing system satellites. we are a global provider of end-to-end fully-managed hybrid communications network solutions to critical operations in remote and harsh locations for energy and maritime customers. our harris caprock communications one clear path solution provides a global infrastructure that offers teleports on six continents, network operations centers running 24 hours per day, seven days per week, a local presence in over 20 countries and hundreds of global operations and field service personnel. we actively support customer locations across north america, central and south america, europe, west africa, the middle east and the asia-pacific region. our customers include major land-based and offshore energy, mining and engineering and construction companies and leading transocean shipping and cruise line companies. we focus on voice, data and networking solutions that are supported by a global managed satellite network and that connect customers' remote sites with each other and with distant headquarters, including, for example: satellite communication services, including all shipboard equipment, onboard it system integration and satellite bandwidth, under multi-year agreements covering over 1,000 sites operating worldwide for energy customers; data, voice and networking services to drilling ships operating in offshore brazil and satellite communications to drilling ships operating in offshore norway; turnkey managed satellite communications to over 450 offshore supply and commercial shipping and service vessels worldwide; and managed global satellite communication services for a major cruise line across its fleet of more than 100 cruise ships and managed global communication services for more than 30 cruise ships for another major cruise line to improve overall communications performance and enhance guest and crew experiences. our high-value it and engineering services for intelligence, defense, civilian and homeland security government customers comprise a broad, end-to-end range of services encompassing designing, developing, integrating, deploying, operating and supporting secure communication networks and information systems. specific areas of services include integrating key capabilities in cyber defense, cross-domain information sharing, broad enterprise it applications and network and systems architecture for securely accessing, integrating and sharing sensitive data; intelligence services; advanced engineering; enduring mission support; advanced research and development support; enterprise information support; and space launch and range support. we deliver affordable, mission-critical solutions for critical networks, isr, analytics and other complex applications. we are a systems and network integrator and have positions as a prime contractor on many u.s. government idiq contract vehicles related to it services. examples of our it and engineering services include the following: comprehensive operational and system maintenance support and engineering and technology enhancements for the defense information systems agency ( disa ) crisis management system; enterprise it support services to the north american air defense command and the u.s. northern command; it integration of installation, training, help desk, passport and configuration management services for the u.s. department of state under the consular affairs support services contract in support of u.s. embassies and consulates around the world; serving enduring missions in military and national intelligence, strategic deterrence and defense against chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear and explosive threats, and other core defense programs; and operations and maintenance of a series of airborne radar platforms and associated infrastructure and communications under the tethered aerostat radar system ( tars ) program to provide persistent, long-range detection and monitoring (radar surveillance) capability along the united states-mexico border, the florida straits and a portion of the caribbean. 10 table of contents on september 27, 2014, before being acquired by harris, exelis completed the spin-off of part of its military and government services business into a separate company, vectrus, inc. ( vectrus ). for a discussion of risks relating to the spin-off of vectrus completed by exelis, see item ia. risk factors of this report. revenue and operating income: revenue for our critical networks segment in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014 was $2.233 billion , $1.680 billion and $1.786 billion , respectively. segment operating income (loss) in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014 was $(106) million , $131 million and $198 million , respectively. the percentage of our revenue contributed by this segment in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014 was 30 percent , 33 percent and 36 percent , respectively. the percentages of this segment's revenue under contracts directly with end customers and under contracts with prime contractors in fiscal 2016 were approximately 88 percent and 12 percent, respectively. in fiscal 2016, this segment had a diverse portfolio of over 500 programs. some of this segment's more significant programs in fiscal 2016 included fti, ads-b, scns and various classified programs. the percentages of this segment's revenue in fiscal 2016 represented by this segment's largest program by revenue and ten largest programs by revenue were approximately 12 percent and 42 percent, respectively. the percentage of this segment's revenue in fiscal 2016 that was derived outside of the u.s. was 17 percent. the percentage of this segment's revenue in fiscal 2016 that was derived from sales to u.s. government customers, including foreign military sales funded through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, was approximately 78 percent . for a general description of our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, including a discussion of revenue generated thereunder and of cost-reimbursable versus fixed-price contracts, see item 1. business - principal customers; government contracts of this report. in general, this segment's domestic products are sold and serviced directly to customers through its sales organization and through established distribution channels. internationally, this segment markets and sells its products and services through regional sales offices and established distribution channels. for a general description of our international business, see item 1. business - international business of this report. for a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, see item 1. business - principal customers; government contracts, item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this report. international business revenue from products and services exported from the u.s., including foreign military sales, or manufactured or rendered abroad in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014 was $1.6 billion (22 percent of our revenue), $1.6 billion (31 percent of our revenue) and $1.5 billion (30 percent of our revenue), respectively. most of our international sales were derived from our communication systems and critical networks segments. direct export sales are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars, whereas sales from foreign subsidiaries are generally denominated in the local currency of the subsidiary. financial information regarding our domestic and international operations is contained in note 24: business segments in the notes and is incorporated herein by reference. the majority of our international marketing activities are conducted through subsidiaries which operate in canada, europe, the middle east, central and south america, africa and asia. we have also established international marketing organizations and several regional sales offices. for further information regarding our international subsidiaries, see exhibit 21 of this report. we utilize indirect sales channels, including dealers, distributors and sales representatives, in the marketing and sale of some lines of products and equipment, both domestically and internationally. these independent representatives may buy for resale or, in some cases, solicit orders from commercial or government customers for direct sales by us. prices to the ultimate customer in many instances may be recommended or established by the independent representative and may be above or below our list prices. our dealers and distributors generally receive a discount from our list prices and may mark up those prices in setting the final sales prices paid by the customer. the percentages of our total revenue and international revenue represented by revenue from indirect sales channels in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014 were approximately 12 percent and 46 percent; 16 percent and 44 percent; and 13 percent and 40 percent, respectively. fiscal 2016 international revenue came from a large number of countries, and no single foreign country accounted for more than 5 percent of our total revenue. some of our exports are paid for by letters of credit, with the balance carried either on an open account or installment note basis. advance payments, progress payments or other similar payments received prior to or upon shipment often cover most of the related costs incurred. significant foreign government contracts generally require us to provide performance guarantees. in order to stay competitive in international markets, we also sometimes enter into offset agreements or recourse or vendor financing arrangements to facilitate sales to certain customers. the particular economic, social and political conditions for business conducted outside the u.s. differ from those encountered by domestic businesses. we believe that the overall business risk for our international business as a whole is somewhat greater than that faced by our domestic businesses as a whole. a description of the types of risks to which we are subject in our international business is contained in item 1a. risk factors of this report. in our opinion, these risks are 11 table of contents partially mitigated by the diversification of our international business and the protection provided by letters of credit and advance payments, progress payments and other similar payments. competition we operate in highly competitive markets that are sensitive to technological advances. many of our competitors in each of our markets are larger than we are and can maintain higher levels of expenditures for research and development. in each of our markets, we concentrate on the opportunities that we believe are compatible with our resources, overall technological capabilities and objectives. principal competitive factors in these markets are product quality and reliability; technological capabilities; service; past performance; ability to develop and implement complex, integrated solutions; ability to meet delivery schedules; the effectiveness of third-party sales channels in international markets; and cost-effectiveness. we frequently partner or are involved in subcontracting and teaming relationships with companies that are, from time to time, competitors on other programs. in the communication systems segment, principal competitors include aselsan a.s., elbit systems ltd., general dynamics corporation, l-3 communications holdings, inc., motorola solutions, inc., rockwell collins, inc., raytheon company, rohde &amp; schwarz group, selex es (a finmeccanica group company) and thales group. in the space and intelligence systems segment, principal competitors include bae systems plc, the boeing company, general dynamics corporation, l-3 communications holdings, inc., lockheed martin corporation, northrop grumman corporation, raytheon company and rockwell collins, inc. in the electronic systems segment, principal competitors include bae systems plc, the boeing company, general dynamics corporation, l-3 communications holdings, inc., lockheed martin corporation, northrop grumman corporation, raytheon company and rockwell collins, inc. in the critical networks segment, principal competitors include at&amp;t inc., bae systems plc, the boeing company, caci international, inc., computer sciences corporation, csra inc., engility holdings, inc., general dynamics corporation, global eagle entertainment inc., leidos holdings, inc., lockheed martin corporation, mantech international corporation, northrop grumman corporation, raytheon company, rignet, inc. and speedcast international limited. principal customers; government contracts the percentage of our revenue that was derived from sales to u.s. government customers, including foreign military sales funded through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014 was approximately 76 percent, 64 percent and 67 percent, respectively. no other customer accounted for more than 5 percent of our revenue in fiscal 2016 . additional information regarding customers for each of our segments is provided under item 1. business description of business by segment of this report. our u.s. government sales are predominantly derived from contracts with agencies of, and prime contractors to, the u.s. government. most of the sales in our space and intelligence systems segment, our electronic systems segment and, with respect to u.s. government programs in our critical networks segment, are made directly or indirectly to the u.s. government under contracts or subcontracts containing standard government contract clauses providing for redetermination of profits, if applicable, and for termination for the convenience of the u.s. government or for default based on performance. our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts include both cost-reimbursable and fixed-price contracts. government-wide acquisition contracts ( gwacs ) and multi-vendor idiq contracts, which can include task orders for each contract type, require us to compete both for the initial contract and then for individual task or delivery orders under such contracts. our u.s. government cost-reimbursable contracts provide for the reimbursement of allowable costs plus payment of a fee and fall into three basic types: (i) cost-plus fixed-fee contracts, which provide for payment of a fixed fee irrespective of the final cost of performance; (ii) cost-plus incentive-fee contracts, which provide for payment of a fee that may increase or decrease, within specified limits, based on actual results compared with contractual targets relating to factors such as cost, performance and delivery schedule; and (iii) cost-plus award-fee contracts, which provide for payment of an award fee determined at the customer's discretion based on our performance against pre-established performance criteria. under our u.s. government cost-reimbursable contracts, we are reimbursed periodically for allowable costs and are paid a portion of the fee based on contract progress. some overhead costs have been made partially or wholly unallowable for reimbursement by statute or regulation. examples are certain merger and acquisition costs, lobbying costs, charitable contributions, interest expense and certain litigation defense costs. our u.s. government fixed-price contracts are either firm fixed-price contracts or fixed-price incentive contracts. under our u.s. government firm fixed-price contracts, we agree to perform a specific scope of work for a fixed price and, as a result, benefit from cost savings and carry the burden of cost overruns. under our u.s. government fixed-price incentive contracts, we share with the u.s. government both savings accrued for performance at less than target cost as well as costs incurred in excess of target cost up to a negotiated ceiling price, which is higher than the target cost, but carry the entire burden of costs exceeding 12 table of contents the negotiated ceiling price. accordingly, under such incentive contracts, profit may also be adjusted up or down depending on whether specified performance objectives are met. under our u.s. government firm fixed-price and fixed-price incentive contracts, we generally receive either milestone payments equaling 100 percent of the contract price or monthly progress payments from the u.s. government in amounts equaling 80 percent of costs incurred under the contract. the remaining amounts, including profits or incentive fees, are billed upon delivery and final acceptance of end items and deliverables under the contract. our production contracts are mainly fixed-price contracts, and development contracts are generally cost-reimbursable contracts. as stated above, u.s. government contracts are terminable for the convenience of the u.s. government, as well as for default based on performance. companies supplying goods and services to the u.s. government are dependent on congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of funds and may be affected by changes in u.s. government policies resulting from various military, political, economic and international developments. long-term u.s. government contracts and related orders are subject to cancellation if appropriations for subsequent performance periods become unavailable. under contracts terminable for the convenience of the u.s. government, a contractor is entitled to receive payments for its allowable costs and, in general, the proportionate share of fees or earnings for the work done. contracts that are terminable for default generally provide that the u.s. government pays only for the work it has accepted and may require the contractor to pay for the incremental cost of re-procurement and may hold the contractor liable for damages. in many cases, there is also uncertainty relating to the complexity of designs, necessity for design improvements and difficulty in forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work. under many u.s. government contracts, we are required to maintain facility and personnel security clearances complying with dod and other federal agency requirements. for further discussion of risks relating to u.s. government contracts, see item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this report. funded and unfunded backlog our total company-wide funded and unfunded backlog in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014 was approximately $10.8 billion, $12.2 billion and $7.2 billion, respectively. the funded portion of this backlog in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014 was approximately $5.1 billion, $5.3 billion and $3.0 billion, respectively. the determination of backlog involves substantial estimating, particularly with respect to customer requirements contracts and development and production contracts of a cost-reimbursable or incentive nature. the level of order activity related to u.s. government programs can be affected by timing of u.s. government funding authorizations and project evaluation cycles. year-over-year comparisons could, at times, be impacted by these factors, among others. we define funded backlog as unfilled firm orders for products and services for which funding has been authorized and, in the case of u.s. government agencies, appropriated. we define unfunded backlog as primarily unfilled firm contract value for which funding has not yet been authorized or, in the case of u.s. government agencies, appropriated, including the value of contract options in cases of material contracts that have options we believe are probable of being exercised, as well as the most probable value of material sole-source idiq contracts awarded for a specific limited purpose. in fiscal 2017 , we expect to convert to revenue approximately 68 percent of our total funded backlog as of july 1, 2016 . however, we can give no assurance of such fulfillment or that our funded backlog will become revenue in any particular period, if at all. backlog is subject to delivery delays and program cancellations, which are beyond our control. research and development company-sponsored research and development costs, which included research and development for commercial products and services and independent research and development related to government products and services, as well as concept formulation studies and technology development that occurs on bid and proposal efforts, in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014 were approximately $309 million, $277 million and $264 million, respectively. a portion of our independent research and development costs are allocated among contracts and programs in process under u.s. government contractual arrangements. company-sponsored research and development costs not otherwise allocable are charged to expense when incurred. company-sponsored research is directed to the development of new products and services and to building technological capability in various markets. customer-sponsored research and development costs are incurred pursuant to contractual arrangements, principally u.s. government-sponsored contracts requiring us to provide a product or service meeting certain defined performance or other specifications (such as designs). this research helps strengthen and broaden our technical capabilities. customer-sponsored research costs are accounted for principally by the cost-to-cost percentage-of-completion method and included in our revenue and cost of product sales and services. as of july 1, 2016 , we employed approximately 9,000 engineers and scientists and are continuing efforts to make the technologies developed in any of our business segments available for all other business segments. 13 table of contents patents and other intellectual property we consider our patents and other intellectual property, in the aggregate, to constitute an important asset. we own a large portfolio of patents, trade secrets, know-how, confidential information, trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property, and we routinely apply for new patents, trademarks and copyrights. we also license intellectual property to and from third parties. as of july 1, 2016 , we held approximately 1,900 u.s. patents and 1,700 foreign patents, and had approximately 200 u.s. patent applications pending and 600 foreign patent applications pending. unpatented research, development and engineering skills also make an important contribution to our business. although our intellectual property rights in the aggregate are important to our business and the operations of our business segments, we do not consider our business or any business segment to be materially dependent on any single patent, license or other intellectual property right, or any group of related patents, licenses or other intellectual property rights. we are engaged in a proactive patent licensing program and have entered into a number of licenses and cross-license agreements, some of which generate royalty income. although existing license agreements have generated income in past years and may do so in the future, there can be no assurances we will enter into additional income-producing license agreements. from time to time we engage in litigation to protect our patents and other intellectual property. any of our patents, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights and other proprietary rights could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or may not provide competitive advantages. for further discussion of risks relating to intellectual property, see item 1a. risk factors of this report. with regard to certain patents, the u.s. government has an irrevocable, non-exclusive, royalty-free license, pursuant to which the u.s. government may use or authorize others to use the inventions covered by such patents. pursuant to similar arrangements, the u.s. government may consent to our use of inventions covered by patents owned by other persons. numerous trademarks used on or in connection with our products are also considered to be a valuable asset. environmental and other regulations our facilities and operations are subject to numerous domestic and international laws and regulations designed to protect the environment, particularly with regard to wastes and emissions. the applicable environmental laws and regulations are common within the industries and markets in which we operate and serve. we believe that we have complied with these requirements and that such compliance has not had a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we have installed waste treatment facilities and pollution control equipment to satisfy legal requirements and to achieve our waste minimization and prevention goals. a portion of our environmental expenditures relates to historic discontinued operations (other than cis and broadcast communications) for which we have retained certain environmental liabilities. we did not spend material amounts on environmental-related capital projects in fiscal 2016 , 2015 or 2014 . based on currently available information, we do not expect capital expenditures in fiscal 2017 or over the next several years to protect the environment and to comply with current environmental laws and regulations, as well as to comply with current and pending climate control legislation, regulation, treaties and accords, to be material or to have a material impact on our competitive position or financial condition, but we can give no assurance that such expenditures will not exceed current expectations, and such expenditures may increase in future years. if future treaties, laws and regulations contain more stringent requirements than presently anticipated, actual expenditures may be higher than our present estimates of those expenditures. additional information regarding environmental and regulatory matters is set forth in item 3. legal proceedings of this report and in note 1: significant accounting policies and note 25: legal proceedings and contingencies in the notes. electronic products are subject to governmental environmental regulation in a number of jurisdictions, such as domestic and international requirements requiring end-of-life management and/or restricting materials in products delivered to customers, including the european union's directive 2012/19/eu on waste electrical and electronic equipment and directive 2011/65/eu on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment ( rohs ), as amended. other jurisdictions have adopted similar legislation. such requirements typically are not applicable to most equipment produced by our communication systems, space and intelligence systems and electronic systems segments. we believe that we have complied with such rules and regulations, where applicable, with respect to our existing products sold into such jurisdictions. we intend to comply with such rules and regulations with respect to our future products. wireless communications, whether radio, satellite or telecommunications, are also subject to governmental regulation. equipment produced in our communication systems and critical networks segments, in particular, is subject to domestic and international requirements to avoid interference among users of radio and television frequencies and to permit interconnection of telecommunications equipment. additionally, we hold licenses for our managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions market for very small aperture terminals and satellite earth stations, which authorize operation of networks and teleports. we are also required to comply with technical operating and licensing requirements that pertain to our wireless licenses and operations. we believe that we have complied with such rules and regulations and licenses with respect to our existing products and services, and we intend to comply with such rules and regulations and licenses with respect to our future products and services. governmental reallocation of the frequency spectrum also could impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 table of contents raw materials and supplies because of the diversity of our products and services, as well as the wide geographic dispersion of our facilities, we use numerous sources for the wide array of raw materials, such as electronic components, printed circuit boards, metals and plastics, needed for our operations and for our products. we are dependent on suppliers and subcontractors for a large number of components and subsystems and the ability of our suppliers and subcontractors to adhere to customer or regulatory materials restrictions and to meet performance and quality specifications and delivery schedules. in some instances, we are dependent on one or a few sources, either because of the specialized nature of a particular item or because of local content preference requirements pursuant to which we operate on a given project. although we have been affected by financial and performance issues of some of our suppliers and subcontractors, we have not been materially adversely affected by the inability to obtain raw materials or products. on occasion, we have experienced component shortages from vendors as a result of natural disasters, or the rohs environmental regulations in the european union or similar regulations in other jurisdictions. these events or regulations may cause a spike in demand for certain electronic components, such as lead-free components, resulting in industry-wide supply chain shortages. as of july 1, 2016 , these component shortages have not had a material adverse effect on our business. for further discussion of risks relating to subcontractors and suppliers, see item 1a. risk factors of this report. seasonality we do not consider any material portion of our business to be seasonal. various factors can affect the distribution of our revenue between accounting periods, including the timing of contract awards and the timing and availability of u.s. government funding, as well as the timing of product deliveries and customer acceptance. employees we had approximately 21,000 employees at the end of fiscal 2016 . approximately 93 percent of our employees as of the end of fiscal 2016 were located in the u.s. a significant number of our employees possess a u.s. government security clearance. we also utilize a number of independent contractors. approximately 850, or approximately 4 percent, of our u.s. employees are working under collective bargaining agreements with labor unions and worker representatives. these collective bargaining agreements will be renegotiated at various times over the next three years as they expire. exelis and its predecessors have historically renegotiated these agreements without significant disruption to operating activities. for certain international subsidiaries, our employees are represented by workers' councils or statutory labor unions. in general, we believe that our relations with our employees are good. website access to harris reports; available information general. we maintain an internet website at http://harris.com . our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to such reports, filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act, are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the u.s. securities and exchange commission (the sec ). we also will provide the reports in electronic or paper form free of charge upon request. we also make available free of charge on our website our annual report to shareholders and proxy statement. our website and the information posted thereon are not incorporated into this report or any current or other periodic report that we file with or furnish to the sec. all reports we file with or furnish to the sec also are available free of charge via the sec's electronic data gathering and retrieval, or edgar, system available through the sec's website at http://www.sec.gov. additional information relating to our business, including our business segments, is set forth in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report. corporate governance guidelines and committee charters. we previously adopted corporate governance guidelines, which are available on the corporate governance section of our website at https://www.harris.com/about/corporate-governance . in addition, the charters of each of the standing committees of our board, namely, the audit committee, finance committee, governance and corporate responsibility committee and management development and compensation committee, are also available on the corporate governance section of our website. a copy of the charters is also available free of charge upon written request to our secretary at harris corporation, 1025 west nasa boulevard, melbourne, florida 32919. certifications. we have filed with the sec the certifications required by section 302 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 as exhibits to this report. in addition, an annual ceo certification was submitted by our chief executive officer to the new york stock exchange ( nyse ) in november 2015 in accordance with the nyse's listing standards, which included a certification that he was not aware of any violation by harris of the nyse's corporate governance listing standards. 15 table of contents item 1a. risk factors. we have described many of the trends and other factors that we believe could impact our business and future results in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report. in addition, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are subject to, and could be materially adversely affected by, various risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, those set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or our anticipated future results. we depend on u.s. government customers for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of these relationships, a reduction in u.s. government funding or a change in u.s. government spending priorities could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are highly dependent on sales to u.s. government customers. the percentage of our revenue that was derived from sales to u.s. government customers, including foreign military sales funded through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014 was approximately 76 percent, 64 percent and 67 percent, respectively. therefore, any significant disruption or deterioration of our relationship with the u.s. government would significantly reduce our revenue. our competitors continuously engage in efforts to expand their business relationships with the u.s. government and will continue these efforts in the future, and the u.s. government may choose to use other contractors. we expect that a majority of the business that we seek will be awarded through competitive bidding. the u.s. government has increasingly relied on certain types of contracts that are subject to multiple competitive bidding processes, including multi-vendor idiq, gwac, general services administration schedule and other multi-award contracts, which has resulted in greater competition and increased pricing pressure. we operate in highly competitive markets and our competitors may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do in some areas, and we may not be able to continue to win competitively awarded contracts or to obtain task orders under multi-award contracts. further, the competitive bidding process involves significant cost and managerial time to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us or may be split among competitors, as well as the risk that we may fail to accurately estimate the resources and costs required to fulfill any contract awarded to us. following any contract award, we may experience significant expense or delay, contract modification or contract rescission as a result of our competitors protesting or challenging contracts awarded to us in competitive bidding. the current competitive environment has resulted in unsuccessful bidders more frequently initiating bid protests and, in some cases, the bid protest has resulted in a portion of the work subject to the bid being awarded to the bid protester in exchange for withdrawing the bid protest. our u.s. government programs must compete with programs managed by other government contractors and with other policy imperatives for consideration for limited resources and for uncertain levels of funding during the budget and appropriations process. budget and appropriations decisions made by the u.s. government are outside of our control and have long-term consequences for our business. u.s. government spending priorities and levels remain uncertain and difficult to predict and are affected by numerous factors, including sequestration (automatic, across-the-board u.s. government budgetary spending cuts) and potential alternative funding arrangements. a change in u.s. government spending priorities or an increase in non-procurement spending at the expense of our programs, or a reduction in total u.s. government spending, could have material adverse consequences on our future business. for more information regarding sequestration, see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations business considerations industry-wide opportunities, challenges and risks of this report. we depend significantly on u.s. government contracts, which often are only partially funded, subject to immediate termination, and heavily regulated and audited. the termination or failure to fund, or negative audit findings for, one or more of these contracts could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. over its lifetime, a u.s. government program may be implemented by the award of many different individual contracts and subcontracts. the funding of u.s. government programs is subject to congressional appropriations. although multi-year contracts may be authorized and appropriated in connection with major procurements, congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis. procurement funds are typically made available for obligation over the course of one to three years. consequently, programs often receive only partial funding initially, and additional funds are obligated only as congress authorizes further appropriations. the termination of funding for a u.s. government program would result in a loss of anticipated future revenue attributable to that program, which could have an adverse impact on our operations. in addition, the termination of a program or the failure to commit additional funds to a program that already has been started could result in lost revenue and increase our overall costs of doing business. generally, u.s. government contracts are subject to oversight audits by u.s. government representatives. such audits could result in adjustments to our contract costs. any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, and such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. we have recorded contract revenue based on costs we expect to realize upon final audit. however, we do not know the outcome of any future audits and adjustments, and we may be 16 table of contents required to materially reduce our revenue or profits upon completion and final negotiation of audits. negative audit findings could also result in termination of a contract, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or debarment from u.s. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. in addition, u.s. government contracts generally contain provisions permitting termination, in whole or in part, without prior notice at the u.s. government's convenience upon the payment only for work done and commitments made at the time of termination. we can give no assurance that one or more of our u.s. government contracts will not be terminated under these circumstances. also, we can give no assurance that we would be able to procure new contracts to offset the revenue or backlog lost as a result of any termination of our u.s. government contracts. because a significant portion of our revenue is dependent on our performance and payment under our u.s. government contracts, the loss of one or more large contracts could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our government business also is subject to specific procurement regulations and a variety of socioeconomic and other requirements. these requirements, although customary in u.s. government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. these costs might increase in the future, thereby reducing our margins, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could lead to fines, penalties, repayments, or compensatory or treble damages, or suspension or debarment from u.s. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. among the causes for debarment are violations of various laws, including those related to procurement integrity, export control, u.s. government security regulations, employment practices, protection of the environment, accuracy of records, proper recording of costs and foreign corruption. the termination of a u.s. government contract or relationship as a result of any of these acts would have an adverse impact on our operations and could have an adverse effect on our standing and eligibility for future u.s. government contracts. we could be negatively impacted by a security breach, through cyber attack, cyber intrusion or otherwise, or other significant disruption of our it networks and related systems or of those we operate for certain of our customers. we face the risk, as does any company, of a security breach, whether through cyber attack or cyber intrusion over the internet, malware, computer viruses, attachments to e-mails, persons inside our organization or with access to systems inside our organization, or other significant disruption of our it networks and related systems. we face an added risk of a security breach or other significant disruption of the it networks and related systems that we develop, install, operate and maintain for certain of our customers, which may involve managing and protecting information relating to national security and other sensitive government functions or personally identifiable or protected health information. the risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. as an advanced communications and it solutions provider, and particularly as a government contractor, we face a heightened risk of a security breach or disruption from threats to gain unauthorized access to our and our customers' proprietary or classified information on our it networks and related systems and to the it networks and related systems that we operate and maintain for certain of our customers. these types of information and it networks and related systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day-to-day operations, and, in some cases, are critical to the operations of certain of our customers. although we make significant efforts to maintain the security and integrity of these types of information and it networks and related systems and have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption, there can be no assurance that our efforts and measures will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging. even the most well protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because attempted security breaches, particularly cyber attacks and intrusions, or disruptions will occur in the future, and because the techniques used in such attempts are constantly evolving and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed not be detected and, in fact, may not be detected. in some cases, the resources of foreign governments may be behind such attacks due to the nature of our business and the industries in which we operate. accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures, and thus it is virtually impossible for us to entirely mitigate this risk. a security breach or other significant disruption involving these types of information and it networks and related systems could: disrupt the proper functioning of these networks and systems and therefore our operations and/or those of certain of our customers; result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of, proprietary, confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable information of ours or our customers, including trade secrets, which could be used to compete against us or for disruptive, destructive or otherwise harmful purposes and outcomes; compromise national security and other sensitive government functions; require significant management attention and resources to remedy the damages that result; subject us to claims for contract breach, damages, credits, penalties or termination; and damage our reputation with our customers (particularly agencies of the u.s. government) and the public generally. 17 table of contents any or all of the foregoing could have a negative impact on our business, financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows. the continued effects of the general weakness in the global economy and the u.s. government's budget deficits and national debt and sequestration could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. despite some positive trends in the u.s. economy, the economies of the u.s. and many foreign countries in which we do business continue to show weakness or limited improvement. we are unable to predict the impact, severity and duration of these economic events. the continued effects of these economic events and the u.s. government's budget deficits and national debt and sequestration could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in a number of ways. possible effects of these economic conditions include the following: the u.s. government could reduce or delay its spending on, or reprioritize its spending away from, the government programs in which we participate; the u.s. government may be unable to complete its budget process before the end of its fiscal year on september 30 and thus would be required either to shut down or be funded pursuant to a continuing resolution that authorizes agencies of the u.s. government to continue operations but does not authorize new spending initiatives, either of which could result in reduced or delayed orders or payments for products and services we provide. if the u.s. government budget process results in a shutdown or prolonged operation under a continuing resolution, it may decrease our revenue, profitability or cash flows or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations; u.s. government spending could be impacted by sequestration or alternate arrangements, which increases the uncertainty as to, and the difficulty in predicting, u.s. government spending priorities and levels; we may experience declines in revenue, profitability and cash flows as a result of reduced or delayed orders or payments or other factors caused by the economic problems of our customers and prospective customers, including u.s. federal, state and local governments; we may experience supply chain delays, disruptions or other problems associated with financial constraints faced by our suppliers and subcontractors; and we may incur increased costs or experience difficulty with future borrowings under our commercial paper program or credit facilities or in the debt markets, or otherwise with financing our operating, investing (including any future acquisitions) or financing activities. the level of returns on defined benefit plan assets, changes in interest rates and other factors could affect our earnings and cash flows in future periods. a substantial portion of our current and retired employee population is covered by defined benefit pension and other postretirement defined benefit plans (collectively, defined benefit plans ), as a result of our acquisition of exelis. we may experience significant fluctuations in costs related to defined benefit plans as a result of macro-economic factors, such as interest rates, that are beyond our control. the cost of our defined benefit plans is incurred over long periods of time and involves various factors and uncertainties during those periods which can be volatile and unpredictable, including the rates of return on defined benefit plan assets, discount rates used to calculate liabilities and expenses, mortality of plan participants and trends for future medical costs. management develops each assumption using relevant plan and experience and expectations in conjunction with market-related data. our financial position and results of operations could be materially affected by significant changes in key economic indicators, financial market volatility, future legislation and other governmental regulatory actions. we will make contributions to fund our defined benefit plans when considered necessary or advantageous to do so. the macro-economic factors discussed above, including the rates of return on defined benefit plan assets and the minimum funding requirements established by government funding or taxing authorities, or established by other agreement, may influence future funding requirements. a significant decline in the fair value of our plan assets, or other adverse changes to our overall defined benefit plans, could require us to make significant funding contributions and affect cash flows in future periods. u.s. government cost accounting standards govern the extent to which postretirement costs and plan contributions are allocable to and recoverable under contracts with the u.s. government. as a result, we expect to continue to seek reimbursement from the u.s. government for a portion of our postretirement costs and plan contributions. on december 27, 2011 the u.s. government's cost accounting standards board published a final rule that harmonizes cost accounting standards ( cas ) pension cost reimbursement rules with the pension protection act of 2006 ( ppa ) funding requirements. the rule is expected to eventually mitigate the mismatch between cas costs and ppa-amended erisa minimum funding requirements, and result in an acceleration of allowable cas pension costs as compared to the prior rules. the final rule applied to exelis' contracts starting in 2013, although due to a five-year phase in, the full phase-in will not be not achieved until 2017. we anticipate that government contractors will be entitled to an equitable adjustment for any additional cas contract costs resulting from the final rule. 18 table of contents we enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses in the event of cost overruns or a significant increase in inflation. we have a number of fixed-price contracts, which allow us to benefit from cost savings, but subject us to the risk of potential cost overruns, particularly for firm fixed-price contracts because we assume all of the cost burden. if our initial estimates are incorrect, we can lose money on these contracts. u.s. government contracts can expose us to potentially large losses because the u.s. government can hold us responsible for completing a project or, in certain circumstances, paying the entire cost of its replacement by another provider regardless of the size or foreseeability of any cost overruns that occur over the life of the contract. because many of these contracts involve new technologies and applications and can last for years, unforeseen events, such as technological difficulties, fluctuations in the price of raw materials, problems with our suppliers and cost overruns, can result in the contractual price becoming less favorable or even unprofitable to us over time. the u.s. and other countries also may experience a significant increase in inflation. a significant increase in inflation rates could have a significant adverse impact on the profitability of these contracts. furthermore, if we do not meet contract deadlines or specifications, we may need to renegotiate contracts on less favorable terms, be forced to pay penalties or liquidated damages or suffer major losses if the customer exercises its right to terminate. in addition, some of our contracts have provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights, and if we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts we may not realize their full benefits. our results of operations are dependent on our ability to maximize our earnings from our contracts. cost overruns could have an adverse impact on our financial results. the potential impact of such risk on our financial results would increase if the mix of our contracts and programs shifted toward a greater percentage of fixed-price contracts, particularly firm fixed-price contracts. we use estimates in accounting for many of our programs and changes in our estimates could adversely affect our future financial results. accounting for our contracts requires judgment relative to assessing risks, including risks associated with customer directed delays and reductions in scheduled deliveries, unfavorable resolutions of claims and contractual matters, judgments associated with estimating contract revenue and costs, and assumptions for schedule and technical issues. due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenue and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. for example, we must make assumptions regarding: (i) the length of time to complete the contract because costs also include expected increases in wages and prices for materials; (ii) whether the intent of entering into multiple contracts was effectively to enter into a single project in order to determine whether such contracts should be combined or segmented; (iii) incentives or penalties related to performance on contracts in estimating revenue and profit rates, and record them when there is sufficient information for us to assess anticipated performance; and (iv) estimates of award fees in estimating revenue and profit rates based on actual and anticipated awards. because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes involved in accounting for our contracts, materially different amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. we derive a significant portion of our revenue from international operations and are subject to the risks of doing business internationally, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates. we are dependent on sales to customers outside the u.s. the percentage of our total revenue represented by revenue from products and services exported from the u.s., including foreign military sales, or manufactured or rendered abroad in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014 was 22 percent, 31 percent and 30 percent, respectively. approximately 26 percent of our international business in fiscal 2016 was transacted in local currency. losses resulting from currency rate fluctuations can adversely affect our results. we expect that international revenue will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue. also, a significant portion of our international revenue is from, and a significant portion of our business activity is being conducted in, less-developed countries and sometimes in countries with unstable governments, in areas of military conflict or at military installations. we are subject to risks of doing business internationally, including: currency exchange controls, fluctuations of currency and currency revaluations; the laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments relating to investments and operations, as well as u.s. laws affecting the activities of u.s. companies abroad, including the foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ); changes in regulatory requirements, including business or operating license requirements, imposition of tariffs or embargoes, export controls and other trade restrictions; uncertainties and restrictions concerning the availability of funding, credit or guarantees; the complexity and necessity of using, and disruptions involving our, international dealers, distributors, sales representatives and consultants; the difficulties of managing a geographically dispersed organization and culturally diverse workforces, including compliance with local laws and practices; difficulties associated with repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner and changes in tax laws; 19 table of contents import and export licensing requirements and regulations, as well as unforeseen changes in export regulations; uncertainties as to local laws and enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights and occasional requirements for onerous contract clauses; rapid changes in government, economic and political policies, political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of international boycotts or u.s. anti-boycott legislation; and increased risk of an incident resulting in damage or destruction to our products or resulting in injury or loss of life to our employees, subcontractors or other third parties. our reputation and ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of our employees, agents or business partners. we have implemented compliance controls, policies and procedures designed to prevent reckless or criminal acts from being committed by our employees, agents or business partners that would violate the laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including laws governing payments to government officials, such as the fcpa, and to detect any such reckless or criminal acts committed. we cannot ensure, however, that our controls, policies and procedures will prevent or detect all such reckless or criminal acts, and we have been adversely impacted by such acts in the past. if not prevented, such reckless or criminal acts could subject us to civil or criminal investigations and monetary and non-monetary penalties and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct business, our results of operations and our reputation. in addition, misconduct involving data security lapses resulting in the compromise of personal information or the improper use of our customer's sensitive or classified information could result in remediation costs, regulatory sanctions against us and serious harm to our reputation. we may not be successful in obtaining the necessary export licenses to conduct certain operations abroad, and congress may prevent proposed sales to certain foreign governments. we must first obtain export and other licenses and authorizations from various u.s. government agencies before we are permitted to sell certain products and technologies outside of the u.s. for example, the u.s. department of state must notify congress at least 15 to 60 days, depending on the size and location of the proposed sale, prior to authorizing certain sales of defense equipment and services to foreign governments. during that time, congress may take action to block the proposed sale. we can give no assurance that we will continue to be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses or authorizations or that congress will not prevent or delay certain sales. any significant impairment of our ability to sell products or technologies outside of the u.s. could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our future success will depend on our ability to develop new products, systems, services and technologies that achieve market acceptance in our current and future markets. both our commercial and government businesses are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry standards. accordingly, our performance depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: identify emerging technological trends in our current and target markets; develop and maintain competitive products, systems, services and technologies; enhance our offerings by adding innovative hardware, software or other features that differentiate our products, systems, services and technologies from those of our competitors; and develop, manufacture and bring to market cost-effective offerings quickly. we believe that, in order to remain competitive in the future, we will need to continue to develop new products, systems, services and technologies, requiring the investment of significant financial resources. the need to make these expenditures could divert our attention and resources from other projects, and we cannot be sure that these expenditures ultimately will lead to the timely development of new products, systems, services or technologies. due to the design complexity of some of our products, systems, services and technologies, we may experience delays in completing development and introducing new products, systems, services or technologies in the future. any delays could result in increased costs of development or redirect resources from other projects. in addition, we cannot provide assurances that the markets for our products, systems, services or technologies will develop as we currently anticipate. the failure of our products, systems, services or technologies to gain market acceptance could significantly reduce our revenue and harm our business. furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing products, systems, services or technologies that gain market acceptance in advance of our products, systems, services or technologies, or that our competitors will not develop new products, systems, services or technologies that cause our existing products, systems, services or technologies to become non-competitive or obsolete, which could adversely affect our results of operations. the future direction of the domestic and global economies, including its impact on customer demand, also will have a significant impact on our overall performance. 20 table of contents we participate in markets that are often subject to uncertain economic conditions, which makes it difficult to estimate growth in our markets and, as a result, future income and expenditures. we participate in u.s. and international markets that are subject to uncertain economic conditions. in particular, u.s. government spending priorities and levels remain uncertain and difficult to predict and are affected by numerous factors, including sequestration and potential alternative funding arrangements. as a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth in the markets in which we participate. because all components of our budgeting and forecasting are dependent on estimates of growth in the markets we serve, the uncertainty renders estimates of or guidance relating to future revenue, income and expenditures even more difficult. as a result, we may make significant investments and expenditures but never realize the anticipated benefits. we cannot predict the consequences of future geo-political events, but they may adversely affect the markets in which we operate, our ability to insure against risks, our operations or our profitability. ongoing instability and current conflicts in global markets, including in the middle east and asia, and the potential for other conflicts and future terrorist activities and other recent geo-political events throughout the world, including the likely voluntary exit of the united kingdom from the european union (commonly referred to as brexit ), have created economic and political uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and profitability. these matters cause uncertainty in the world's financial and insurance markets and may significantly increase the political, economic and social instability in the geographic areas in which we operate. these matters also may cause our insurance coverages and performance bonds to increase in cost, or in some cases, to be unavailable altogether. we have made, and may continue to make, strategic acquisitions and divestitures that involve significant risks and uncertainties. strategic acquisitions and divestitures that we have made in the past, and may continue to make, present significant risks and uncertainties, which include: difficulty in identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions, including the risk that our due diligence does not identify or fully assess valuation issues, potential liabilities or other acquisition risks; difficulty and expense in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations, including combining product and service offerings, and in entering into new markets in which we are not experienced, in an efficient and cost-effective manner while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures, and the risk that we encounter significant unanticipated costs or other problems associated with integration; difficulty and expense in consolidating and rationalizing it infrastructure, which may include multiple legacy systems from various acquisitions and integrating software code; challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits expected from acquisitions; risk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the strategic acquisitions and divestitures do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; risk that we assume significant liabilities that exceed the limitations of any applicable indemnification provisions or the financial resources of any indemnifying parties; potential loss of key employees or customers of the businesses acquired or to be divested; risk that we are not able to complete strategic divestitures on satisfactory terms and conditions or within expected timeframes; and risk of diverting the attention of senior management from our existing operations. disputes with our subcontractors and the inability of our subcontractors to perform, or our key suppliers to timely deliver our components, parts or services, could cause our products or services to be produced or delivered in an untimely or unsatisfactory manner. we engage subcontractors on many of our contracts. we may have disputes with our subcontractors, including regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor, customer concerns about the subcontract, our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders under a subcontract, our hiring of the personnel of a subcontractor or vice versa or the subcontractor's failure to comply with applicable law. in addition, there are certain parts, components and services for many of our products and services which we source from other manufacturers or vendors. some of our suppliers, from time to time, experience financial and operational difficulties, which may impact their ability to supply the materials, components, subsystems and services that we require. our supply chain could also be disrupted by external events, such as natural disasters or other significant disruptions (including extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics, acts of terrorism, cyber attacks and labor disputes), governmental actions and legislative or regulatory changes, including product certification or stewardship requirements, sourcing restrictions, product authenticity and climate change or greenhouse gas emission standards. any inability to develop alternative sources of supply on a cost-effective and timely basis could materially impair our ability to manufacture and deliver products and services to our customers. we can give no assurances that we will be free from disputes with our subcontractors, material supply problems or component, subsystems or services problems in the future. also, our subcontractors and other suppliers may not be able to acquire or maintain the quality of the materials, components, subsystems 21 table of contents and services they supply, which might result in greater product returns, service problems and warranty claims and could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, in connection with our government contracts, we are required to procure certain materials, components and parts from supply sources approved by the u.s. government. there are currently several components for which there may be only one supplier. the inability of a sole source supplier to meet our needs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. third parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their intellectual property rights, and third parties may infringe upon our intellectual property rights. many of the markets we serve are characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights, which often has resulted in protracted and expensive litigation. third parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing or to have infringed directly or indirectly upon those intellectual property rights. claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. moreover, we may not be able to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us, or at all. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain of our products, services and solutions. our success depends in large part on our proprietary technology. we rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, know-how, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. if we fail to successfully protect and enforce these rights, our competitive position could suffer. our pending patent and trademark registration applications may not be allowed, or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents or trademark registrations. in addition, our patents may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and police our intellectual property rights. we may not be able to detect infringement and our competitive position may be harmed before we do so. in addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. the outcome of litigation or arbitration in which we are involved from time to time is unpredictable and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. from time to time, we are defendants in a number of litigation matters and are involved in a number of arbitrations. these actions may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. no assurances can be given that the results of these or new matters will be favorable to us. an adverse resolution of lawsuits or arbitrations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we face certain significant risk exposures and potential liabilities that may not be covered adequately by insurance or indemnity. we are exposed to liabilities that are unique to the products and services we provide. a significant portion of our business relates to designing, developing and manufacturing advanced defense, technology and communications systems and products. new technologies associated with these systems and products may be untested or unproven. components of certain of the defense systems and products we develop are inherently dangerous. failures of satellites, missile systems, air traffic control systems, electronic warfare systems, space superiority systems, c4i systems, homeland security applications and aircraft have the potential to cause loss of life and extensive property damage. other examples of unforeseen problems that could result, either directly or indirectly, in the loss of life or property or otherwise negatively affect revenue and profitability include loss on launch of spacecraft, premature failure of products that cannot be accessed for repair or replacement, problems with quality and workmanship, country of origin, delivery of subcontractor components or services and unplanned degradation of product performance. in addition, problems and delays in development or delivery as a result of issues with respect to design, technology, licensing and patent rights, labor, learning curve assumptions or materials and components could prevent us from achieving contractual requirements. in many circumstances, we may receive indemnification from the u.s. government. although we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, and we may be forced to bear substantial costs from an accident or incident. it also is not possible for us to obtain insurance to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. substantial claims resulting from an incident in excess of u.s. government indemnity and our insurance coverage would harm our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. other factors that may affect revenue and profits include loss of follow-on work, and, in the case of certain contracts, liquidated damages, penalties and repayment to the customer of contract cost and fee payments we previously received. moreover, any accident or incident for which we are liable, even if fully insured, could negatively affect our standing with our customers and the public, thereby making it more difficult for us to compete effectively, and could significantly impact the cost and availability of adequate insurance in the future. 22 table of contents changes in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. our future effective tax rate may be adversely affected by a number of factors including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not fully deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairment of goodwill or other long-term assets in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation expense; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; changes in domestic or international tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws; and the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact our results of operations for future periods. our level of indebtedness and our ability to make payments on or service our indebtedness and our unfunded pension liability may adversely affect our financial and operating activities or our ability to incur additional debt. at the end of fiscal 2016 , we had $4.5 billion in aggregate principal amount of outstanding debt and approximately $2.2 billion of unfunded pension liability. in the future we may increase our borrowings; however, our ability to do so will be subject to limitations imposed on us by our debt agreements. our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness as well as any future debt that we may incur and our ability to make contributions to our unfunded pension liability, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future from operations, financings or asset sales. our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. if we are not able to repay or refinance our debt as it becomes due or make contributions to our unfunded pension liability, we may be forced to sell assets or take other disadvantageous actions, including (i) reducing financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes or (ii) dedicating an unsustainable level of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness. in addition, our ability to withstand competitive pressures and to react to changes in the defense technology industry could be impaired. the lenders who hold such debt could also accelerate amounts due, which could potentially trigger a default or acceleration of any of our other debt. a downgrade in our credit ratings could materially adversely affect our business. the credit ratings assigned to our debt securities could change based on, among other things, our results of operations, financial condition, mergers, acquisitions or dispositions. these ratings are subject to ongoing evaluation by credit rating agencies, and there can be no assurance that any rating will not be changed or withdrawn by a rating agency in the future. moreover, these credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold any of our debt securities. actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under review for a downgrade or have been assigned a negative outlook, would likely increase our borrowing costs and affect our ability to incur new indebtedness or refinance our existing indebtedness, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and could also have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock and outstanding debt securities. unforeseen environmental issues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operations are subject to and affected by many federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. in addition, we could be affected by future environmental laws or regulations, including, for example, new restrictions on materials used in our operations. compliance with current and future environmental laws and regulations may require significant operating and capital costs. environmental laws and regulations may authorize substantial fines and criminal sanctions as well as facility shutdowns to address violations, and may require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit emissions or discharges. we also incur, and expect to continue to incur, costs to comply with current environmental laws and regulations related to remediation of conditions in the environment. in addition, if violations of environmental laws result in our, or in one or more of our facilities, being placed on the excluded parties list maintained by the general services administration, we could become ineligible to receive certain contracts, subcontracts and other benefits from the federal government or to perform work under a government contract or subcontract at any listed facility. generally, such ineligibility would continue until the basis for the listing has been appropriately addressed. developments such as the adoption of new environmental laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, violations by us of such laws and regulations, discovery of previously unknown or more extensive contamination, litigation involving environmental impacts, our inability to recover costs associated with any such developments under previously priced contracts, or financial insolvency of other responsible parties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 23 table of contents we have significant operations in locations that could be materially and adversely impacted in the event of a natural disaster or other significant disruption. our corporate headquarters and significant business operations are located in florida and other significant business operations are located in houston, texas, which areas are subject to the risk of major hurricanes. our worldwide operations and operations of our suppliers could be subject to natural disasters or other significant disruptions, including hurricanes, typhoons, tsunamis, floods, earthquakes, fires, water shortages, other extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics, acts of terrorism, power shortages and blackouts, telecommunications failures, cyber attacks and other natural and manmade disasters or disruptions. in the event of such a natural disaster or other disruption, we could experience disruptions or interruptions to our operations or the operations of our suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers or customers; destruction of facilities; and/or loss of life, all of which could materially increase our costs and expenses and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. sustained weakness or volatility in oil or natural gas prices, or negative expectations about future prices or volatility, could adversely affect demand for our managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions or other products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. prices in oil and natural gas markets may be influenced by numerous factors, including general economic conditions, industry inventory levels, production quotas or other actions imposed by the organization of petroleum exporting countries ( opec ), weather-related disruptions, competing fuel prices and geopolitical risks. sustained weakness or volatility in oil or natural gas prices, or negative expectations about future prices or volatility, could adversely affect our customers in energy and related industries, which could adversely affect demand for our managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions. such weakness or volatility also could adversely affect demand for our tactical communications or other products from customers in the middle east or other oil or natural gas-producing countries. any decrease in demand for our managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions or other products could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. changes in the regulatory framework under which our managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions operations are operated could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our u.s. satellite and terrestrial communications solutions are currently provided on a private carrier basis and are therefore subject to a lesser degree of regulation by the u.s. federal communications commission and other u.s. federal, state and local agencies than if provided on a common carrier basis. our international satellite and terrestrial communications solutions operations are regulated by governments of various countries other than the u.s. and by other international authorities. the regulatory regimes applicable to our international satellite and terrestrial communications solutions operations frequently require that we obtain and maintain licenses for our operations and conduct our operations in accordance with prescribed standards. compliance with such requirements may inhibit our ability to quickly expand our operations into new countries, including in circumstances in which such expansion is required in order to provide uninterrupted service to existing customers with mobile operations as they move to new locations on short notice. failure to comply with such regulatory requirements could subject us to various penalties or sanctions. the adoption of new laws or regulations, changes to the existing u.s. or international regulatory framework, new interpretations of the laws that apply to our operations, or the loss of, or a material limitation on, any of our material licenses could materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we rely on third parties to provide satellite bandwidth for our managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions, and any bandwidth constraints could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in our managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions operations, we compete for satellite bandwidth with other commercial entities, such as other satellite communications services providers and broadcasting companies, and with governmental entities, such as the military. in certain markets and at certain times, satellite bandwidth may be limited and/or pricing of satellite bandwidth could be subject to competitive pressure. in such cases, we may be unable to secure sufficient bandwidth needed to provide our managed satellite communications services, either at favorable rates or at all. this inability could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. changes in future business or other market conditions could cause business investments and/or recorded goodwill or other long-term assets to become impaired, resulting in substantial losses and write-downs that would adversely affect our results of operations. as part of our overall strategy, we will, from time to time, acquire a minority or majority interest in a business. these investments are made upon careful analysis and due diligence procedures designed to achieve a desired return or strategic objective. these procedures often involve certain assumptions and judgment in determining acquisition price. after acquisition, such assumptions and judgment may prove to have been inaccurate and unforeseen issues could arise, which could adversely affect the anticipated returns or which are otherwise not recoverable as an adjustment to the purchase price. even after careful integration efforts, actual operating results may vary significantly from initial estimates. goodwill accounted for approximately 24 table of contents 50 percent of our recorded total assets as of july 1, 2016 . we evaluate the recoverability of recorded goodwill annually, as well as when we change reporting units and when events or circumstances indicate there may be an impairment. the impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. principally, a decrease in expected reporting unit cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill. because of the significance of our goodwill and other intangible assets, any future impairment of these assets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. for additional information on accounting policies we have in place for impairment of goodwill, see our discussion under critical accounting policies and estimates in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report and note 1: significant accounting policies and note 8: goodwill in the notes. some of our workforce is represented by labor unions, so our business could be harmed in the event of a prolonged work stoppage. approximately 850 of our u.s. employees are unionized, which represents approximately 4 percent of our employee-base at the end of fiscal 2016 . as a result, we may experience work stoppages, which could adversely affect our business. we cannot predict how stable our union relationships will be or whether we will be able to successfully negotiate successor collective bargaining agreements without impacting our financial condition. in addition, the presence of unions may limit our flexibility in dealing with our workforce. work stoppages could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we must attract and retain key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. our business has a continuing need to attract and retain significant numbers of skilled personnel, including personnel holding security clearances, to support our growth and to replace individuals whose employment has terminated due to retirement or other reasons. to the extent that the demand for qualified personnel exceeds supply, as has been the case from time to time in recent years, we could experience higher labor, recruiting or training costs in order to attract and retain such employees, or could experience difficulties in performing under our contracts if our needs for such employees were unmet. risks relating to the spin-off of vectrus completed by exelis on september 27, 2014, before being acquired by harris, exelis completed the spin-off of vectrus. after the spin-off, exelis and vectrus operated independently of each other and neither company had an ownership interest in the other. prior to the completion of the spin-off, exelis and vectrus entered into a distribution agreement and related separation agreements that provided mechanisms for an orderly separation and govern the post-separation relationship between exelis and vectrus. these agreements generally provide that each party is responsible for its respective assets, liabilities and obligations following the spin-off, including employee benefits, intellectual property, it, insurance and tax-related assets and liabilities. the agreements also set forth exelis' obligation to provide vectrus with certain temporary transition services. the agreements include the distribution agreement, employee matters agreement, tax matters agreement, transition services agreement and several intellectual property agreements. the following are among the risks we face in connection with the spin-off of vectrus completed by exelis: we may be responsible for u.s. federal income tax liabilities that relate to the spin-off of vectrus completed by exelis. in connection with the spin-off of vectrus, completed by exelis prior to our acquisition of exelis, exelis received an opinion of tax counsel substantially to the effect that, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the spin-off will qualify for tax-free treatment under section 355 of the internal revenue code. however, if the factual assumptions or representations made in the opinion are inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, including those relating to the past and future conduct of our business, we will not be able to rely on the opinion. furthermore, the opinion is not binding on the internal revenue service ( irs ) or the courts. accordingly, the irs or the courts may challenge the conclusions stated in the opinion and such challenge could prevail. if, notwithstanding receipt of the opinion, the spin-off is determined to be taxable, we would be subject to a substantial tax liability. in addition, if the spin-off transaction is taxable, each holder of exelis common stock who received shares of vectrus in the spin-off would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares received, thereby potentially increasing such holder's tax liability. even if the vectrus spin-off otherwise qualifies as a tax-free transaction, the distribution could be taxable to us (but not to holders of exelis common stock who received shares of vectrus in the spin-off) in certain circumstances if subsequent significant acquisitions of exelis stock or the stock of vectrus were deemed to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the vectrus spin-off. in this event, the resulting tax liability could be substantial. in connection with the vectrus spin-off, vectrus indemnified exelis for certain liabilities and exelis indemnified vectrus for certain liabilities. this indemnity may not be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of the liabilities assumed by vectrus and vectrus may be unable to satisfy its indemnification obligations to us in the future. as part of the distribution agreement, exelis and vectrus indemnified each other with respect to such parties' assumed or retained liabilities pursuant to the distribution agreement and breaches of the distribution agreement or related separation 25 table of contents agreements. there can be no assurance that the indemnity from vectrus will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of these and other liabilities, or that vectrus will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. third parties also could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that vectrus has agreed to assume. even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from vectrus any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear those losses ourselves. in addition, performance on indemnities that exelis provided vectrus may be significant and could negatively impact our business. each of these risks could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the vectrus spin-off may expose us to potential liabilities arising out of state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws and legal distribution requirements. the vectrus spin-off could be challenged under various u.s. state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws. an unpaid creditor or an entity vested with the power of such creditor (such as a trustee or debtor-in-possession in a bankruptcy) could claim that exelis did not receive fair consideration or reasonably equivalent value in the spin-off, and that the spin-off left exelis insolvent or with unreasonably small capital or that exelis intended or believed it would incur debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they mature. if a court were to agree with such a plaintiff, then such court could void the spin-off as a fraudulent transfer and could impose a number of different remedies, including, without limitation, returning assets or vectrus shares to exelis or providing exelis with a claim for money damages against vectrus in an amount equal to the difference between the consideration received by exelis and the fair market value of vectrus at the time of the spin-off. the measure of insolvency for purposes of fraudulent conveyance laws may vary depending on which jurisdiction's law is applied. generally, however, an entity would be considered insolvent if the fair saleable value of its assets is less than the amount of its liabilities (including the probable amount of contingent liabilities), and such entity would be considered to have unreasonably small capital if it lacked adequate capital to conduct its business in the ordinary course and pay its liabilities as they become due. no assurance can be given as to what standard a court would apply to determine insolvency or that a court would determine that exelis was solvent at the time of or after giving effect to the spin-off, including the distribution of vectrus common stock. the distribution by exelis of the vectrus common stock in the spin-off also could be challenged under state corporate distribution statutes. under the indiana business corporation law, a corporation may not make distributions to its shareholders if, after giving effect to the distribution, (i) the corporation would not be able to pay its debts as they become due in the usual course of business; or (ii) the corporation's total assets would be less than the sum of its total liabilities. no assurance can be given that a court will not later determine that the distribution by exelis of vectrus common stock in the spin-off was unlawful. each of these risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. risks relating to the spin-off of exelis from itt corporation in 2011, itt corporation ( itt ) completed a transaction resulting in the spin-off of exelis and xylem, inc. ( xylem ). after the spin-off, exelis, itt and xylem operated independently of each other and none of the companies had any ownership interest in the other. in order to govern certain ongoing relationships between exelis, itt and xylem following the spin-off and to provide mechanisms for an orderly transition, exelis, itt and xylem executed various agreements that govern the ongoing relationships between and among the three companies after the spin-off and provide for the allocation of employee benefits, income taxes, and certain other liabilities and obligations attributable to periods prior to the spin-off. the executed agreements include the distribution agreement, benefits and compensation matters agreement, tax matters agreement, several real estate matters agreements and master transition services agreement. the distribution agreement provides for certain indemnifications and cross-indemnifications among exelis, itt and xylem. the indemnifications address a variety of subjects, including indemnification by itt of exelis in respect of certain asserted and unasserted asbestos or silica liability claims. these indemnifications include claims relating to the presence or alleged presence of asbestos or silica in products manufactured, repaired or sold prior to the distribution date, subject to limited exceptions with respect to certain employee claims. these indemnifications also include claims relating to the presence or alleged presence of asbestos or silica in the structure or material of any building or facility, subject to exceptions with respect to employee claims relating to exelis or xylem buildings or facilities. the indemnifications are absolute and indefinite. the indemnification associated with pending and future asbestos and silica claims does not expire. the tax matters agreement governs the respective rights, responsibilities and obligations of exelis, itt and xylem after the spin-off with respect to tax liabilities and benefits, tax attributes, tax contests and other tax sharing regarding u.s. federal, state, local and foreign income taxes, other tax matters and related tax returns. exelis has joint and several liability with itt and xylem to the irs for the consolidated u.s. federal income taxes of the itt consolidated group relating to the taxable periods in which exelis was part of that group. however, the tax matters agreement specifies the portion, if any, of this liability for which exelis bears responsibility, and itt and xylem agree to indemnify exelis against any amounts for which exelis is not responsible. though valid as between the parties, the tax matters agreement is not binding on the irs. 26 table of contents the following are among the risks we face in connection with exelis' spin-off from itt: the itt spin-off of exelis may expose us to potential liabilities arising out of state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws and legal distribution requirements. exelis' spin-off from itt could be challenged under various u.s. state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws. an unpaid creditor or an entity vested with the power of such creditor (such as a trustee or debtor-in-possession in a bankruptcy) could claim that the itt spin-off left exelis, itt and/or xylem insolvent or with unreasonably small capital, or that exelis, itt and/or xylem intended or believed it would incur debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they mature and that itt did not receive fair consideration or reasonably equivalent value in the itt spin-off. if a court were to agree with such a plaintiff, then such court could void the itt spin-off as a fraudulent transfer and could impose a number of different remedies, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if we are required to indemnify itt or xylem in connection with the itt spin-off of exelis, we may need to divert cash to meet those obligations and our financial results could be negatively impacted. pursuant to the distribution agreement entered into in connection with the itt spin-off and certain other agreements among exelis, itt and xylem, itt and xylem agreed to indemnify exelis from certain liabilities, and exelis agreed to indemnify itt and xylem for certain liabilities as discussed further above. indemnities that we may be required to provide itt and xylem may be significant and could negatively impact our business. further, there can be no assurance that the indemnity from itt and xylem will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that itt or xylem will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. each of these risks could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 60 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, we are exposed to the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rates and changes in interest rates. we employ established policies and procedures governing the use of financial instruments to manage our exposure to such risks. for a discussion of such policies and procedures and the related risks, see financial risk management in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report, which is incorporated by reference into this item 7a. in addition, we are exposed to market return fluctuations on our defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement defined benefit plans. a material adverse decline in the value of these assets and/or the discount rate for projected benefit obligations would result in a decrease in the funded status of the defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement defined benefit plans, an increase in net periodic benefit cost and an increase in required funding. to protect against declines in the discount rate (i.e., interest rates), we will continue to monitor the performance of these assets and market conditions as we evaluate the amount of our contribution for fiscal 2017, if any, which would be made in september 2016. for further information, see note 14: pension and other postretirement benefits in the notes, which information is incorporated by reference into this item 7a. 60 table of contentsrisk factors 14 risk factors of this report. all forward-looking statements are qualified by, and should be read in conjunction with, those risk factors. forward-looking statements are made in reliance on the safe harbor provisions of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended (the securities act ), and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the exchange act ), and are made as of the date of filing of this report, and we disclaim any intention or obligation, other than imposed by law, to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or developments or otherwise, after the date of filing of this report or, in the case of any document incorporated by reference, the date of that document. amounts contained in this report may not always add to totals due to rounding. part i item 1. business. harris harris corporation, together with its subsidiaries, is a leading technology innovator, solving customers' toughest mission-critical challenges by providing solutions that connect, inform and protect. we support government and commercial customers in more than 100 countries, with our largest customers being various departments and agencies of the u.s. government and their prime contractors. our products, systems and services have defense and civil government applications, as well as commercial applications. as of the end of fiscal 2017 , we had approximately 17,000 employees, including approximately 7,700 engineers and scientists. harris corporation was incorporated in delaware in 1926 as the successor to three companies founded in the 1890s. our principal executive offices are located at 1025 west nasa boulevard, melbourne, florida 32919, and our telephone number is (321) 727-9100. our common stock is listed on the new york stock exchange ( nyse ) under the symbol hrs. unless the context otherwise requires, the terms we, our, us, company and harris as used in this report refer to harris corporation and its subsidiaries. general we structure our operations primarily around the products, systems and services we sell and the markets we serve, and we report the financial results of our continuing operations in the following three reportable segments, which are also referred to as our business segments: communication systems, serving markets in tactical communications and defense products, including tactical ground and airborne radio communications solutions and night vision technology, and in public safety networks; electronic systems, providing electronic warfare, avionics, and command, control, communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance ( c4isr ) solutions for the defense industry and air traffic management ( atm ) solutions for the civil aviation industry; and space and intelligence systems, providing intelligence, space protection, geospatial, complete earth observation, universe exploration, positioning, navigation and timing ( pnt ), and environmental solutions for national security, defense, civil and commercial customers, using advanced sensors, antennas and payloads, as well as ground processing and information analytics. in connection with our divestitures of two significant businesses in fiscal 2017 that were part of our former critical networks segment, our other remaining operations that had been part of our former critical networks segment were integrated with our electronic systems segment effective for the third quarter of fiscal 2017, and our critical networks segment was eliminated. the historical results, discussion and presentation of our business segments as set forth in this report reflect the impact of these changes for all periods presented in order to present all segment information on a comparable basis. there is no impact on our previously reported consolidated statements of income, balance sheets or statements of cash flows resulting from these segment changes. see note 3: discontinued operations and divestitures in the notes to consolidated financial statements in this report (the notes ) for additional information related to our divestitures. financial information about our business segments financial information with respect to our business segments, including revenue, operating income and total assets, and with respect to our operations outside the united states, is contained in note 24: business segments in the notes and is incorporated herein by reference. recent acquisitions and divestitures the following paragraphs summarize recent acquisitions and divestitures. for additional information related to acquisitions, see note 4: business combinations in the notes. for additional information related to divestitures, some of which were reported as discontinued operations, see note 3: discontinued operations and divestitures in the notes. our historical financial results for all periods presented in this report have been restated to account for businesses reported as discontinued operations in this report. except for disclosures related to our cash flows, or unless otherwise specified, disclosures in this report relate solely to our continuing operations. acquisition of exelis inc. on may 29, 2015, we acquired publicly held exelis inc. (collectively with its subsidiaries, exelis ), a diversified, top-tier global aerospace, defense, information and services company leveraging its deep customer knowledge and technical expertise to deliver affordable, mission-critical solutions to military, government and commercial customers in the united states and globally. exelis was a leader in positioning and navigation, sensors, air traffic management solutions, image processing and distribution, communications and information systems; and focused on strategic growth in the areas of critical networks, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance ( isr ) and analytics, electronic warfare and composite aerostructures. each outstanding share of exelis common stock converted into the right to receive $16.625 in cash and 0.1025 of a share of harris common stock. upon closing, legacy harris shareholders owned 84 percent of the combined company and legacy exelis shareholders owned 16 percent. based on the closing price of $79.22 per share of harris common stock on the nyse on may 29, 2015, the date of the closing of the acquisition, the aggregate implied value of the consideration paid to former holders of exelis common stock in connection with the acquisition was approximately $4.7 billion, including approximately $1.5 billion in harris common stock and approximately $3.2 billion in cash (including cash paid in respect of share-based awards and net of cash acquired). the source of funds for such cash payment was cash on hand and third-party debt financing, including a combination of borrowings under our senior unsecured term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $1.3 billion and a portion of the proceeds from our issuance of debt securities in an aggregate principal amount of $2.4 billion. our acquisition of exelis created significantly greater scale, bringing together two engineering-driven companies that value technology leadership. together, the two companies' complementary technologies and capabilities strengthened core franchises and provide new opportunities for innovation to solve customers' most complex challenges. exelis had annual sales of $3.277 billion in calendar 2014. our consolidated financial statements in this report include operating results from exelis operations following may 29, 2015. divestiture of government it services business. on april 28, 2017, we completed the divestiture to an affiliate of veritas capital management, l.l.c. ( veritas ) of our government information technology ( it ) services business ( it services ), which primarily provided it and engineering managed services to u.s. government customers, for net cash proceeds of $646 million, after estimated transaction expenses and estimated purchase price adjustments in respect of net cash and working capital, and subject to post-closing finalization of those adjustments as set forth in the definitive sale agreement. the decision to divest it services was part of our strategy to simplify our operating model to focus on technology-differentiated, high-margin businesses. it services was part of our former critical networks segment and is reported as discontinued operations in this report. in connection with entering into the definitive agreement to sell it services, as described above, our other remaining operations that had been part of our former critical networks segment, including our atm business, primarily serving the federal aviation administration ( faa ), and our pacific missile range facility ( pmrf ) program, were integrated with our electronic systems segment effective for the third quarter of fiscal 2017, and our critical networks segment was eliminated. divestiture of harris caprock communications commercial business. on january 1, 2017, we completed the divestiture to speedcast international ltd. ( speedcast ) of our harris caprock communications commercial business ( caprock ), which provided wireless, terrestrial and satellite communications services to energy and maritime customers, for net cash proceeds of $ 370 million , after transaction expenses and purchase price adjustments in respect of net cash and working capital as set forth in the definitive sale agreement. the decision to divest caprock was part of our strategy to simplify our operating 2 model to focus on technology-differentiated, high-margin businesses. caprock was part of our former critical networks segment and is reported as discontinued operations in this report. divestiture of composite aerostructures business. on april 8, 2016, we completed the divestiture of our composite aerostructures business ( aerostructures ), which designed and manufactured technically advanced, lightweight composite aerospace assembly structures, sub-assemblies and components for defense and commercial industries. aerostructures was not strategic to our business and was part of our company as a result of our acquisition of exelis in may 2015. the operating results of aerostructures through the date of divestiture are reported as part of our electronic systems segment. divestiture of commercial healthcare solutions business . on july 1, 2015, we completed the divestiture of our commercial healthcare solutions business ( hcs ). the operating results of hcs through the date of divestiture were part of our former integrated network solutions segment, but are included as part of corporate in this report. divestiture of broadcast communications business. in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, our board of directors approved a plan to divest our broadcast communications business ( broadcast communications ), which provided digital media management solutions in support of broadcast customers, pursuant to which broadcast communications was reported as discontinued operations. in the third quarter of fiscal 2013, we completed the sale of broadcast communications to an affiliate of the gores group, llc (the buyer ). in the third quarter of fiscal 2016, a nationally recognized accounting firm previously appointed by us and the buyer rendered its final determination as to a dispute between us and the buyer over the amount of the post-closing working capital adjustment to the purchase price, and consequently, we recorded the related activity in discontinued operations for fiscal 2016. divestiture of cyber integrated solutions business. in the third quarter of fiscal 2012, our board of directors approved a plan to exit our cyber integrated solutions business ( cis ), which provided remote cloud hosting, and to dispose of the related assets, pursuant to which cis was reported as discontinued operations. we completed the sale of the remaining assets of cis in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 and received payment in full on a promissory note that formed part of the purchase price in the first quarter of fiscal 2015. we recorded the related activity in discontinued operations for the respective periods. description of business by segment communication systems communication systems serves markets in tactical communications and defense products, including tactical ground and airborne radio communications solutions and night vision technology, and in public safety networks. tactical communications: we are a leading global supplier of secure radio communications, tactical communication networks and embedded high-grade encryption solutions for a diverse portfolio of u.s. military and allied international forces and commercial customers. we design, develop and manufacture a comprehensive line of current and next-generation secure and protected radio communications products and systems, with capabilities to operate across numerous radio frequency bands and using an extensive range of waveforms. our radio systems are highly flexible, interoperable and capable of supporting diverse mission requirements. our tactical radios are built on software-defined radio platforms that include headroom to add future capabilities through software upgrades and that also have the highest grade embedded encryption. product capabilities include secure transmission of voice, high-speed data and full-motion video, including streaming video to the tactical edge of the battlefield. supporting virtually all military domains, our products include handheld, manpack and vehicular, fixed-site and airborne form factors. together, our products create a highly mobile, secure, reliable networked battlefield environment that connects land, air and sea echelons and does not rely on a fixed infrastructure. this networking capability allows warfighters, for example, to remain connected with each other and their command structures and support organizations and to communicate information and maintain situational awareness of both friendly and opposing forces, which are critical to mission safety and success. our radio systems have been widely deployed throughout all branches of the u.s. department of defense ( dod ) and have been sold to more than 100 countries through our international distribution channels, consisting of regional sales offices and a broad dealer network, becoming the standard in many of those countries. our next-generation radios include multiband, multi-mission, legacy-system compatible tactical radios, which address the full range of current mission and interoperability requirements and are fully upgradeable to address changing technical standards and mission requirements of the future. advances in these radios include the support of wideband networking waveforms, extended frequency range and significant reductions in size, weight and power compared with previous generations. wideband networking capability enables enhanced situational awareness through high-bandwidth applications such as streaming video, simultaneous voice and data feeds, collaborative chat and connectivity to secure networks. our comprehensive line of current and next-generation radios includes the following: our widely deployed single channel ground and airborne radio system ( sincgars ) family of backpack, vehicular-mounted, handheld and airborne radios currently used by u.s. and allied military forces these combat net radios, over 600,000 of which have been purchased and deployed worldwide, operate in the very 3 high frequency band, have single-frequency and frequency-hopping modes, handle voice and data communications and are designed to be reliable, secure and easily maintained. our multiband manpack radio, the an/prc-117g, which is national security agency ( nsa ) type-1-certified for narrowband communications, as well as for wideband communications using our harris-developed adaptive networking wideband waveform and the u.s. military joint tactical radio system ( jtrs ) soldier radio waveform and mobile user objective system ( muos ) waveform, which provides connectivity to dod's next-generation muos satellite system; our 2-channel vehicular radio system, the an/vrc-118, which uses the dod-developed wideband networking waveform and was selected as the u.s. army's solution for its jtrs mid-tier networking vehicular radio program; our multiband handheld radios, the an/prc-152, which is a widely fielded jtrs-approved software-defined handheld radio, and the an/prc-152a, which adds wideband, networked communications capability and supports both a full range of narrowband legacy waveforms and wideband networking waveforms in a handheld platform; our multi-channel manpack radio, the an/prc-158, which is a commercially developed, nsa type-1-certified radio offering two channels integrated into the same chassis; our wideband rifleman team radio, the rf-330e, which is the commercially developed u.s. variant of our widely fielded international soldier personal radio; our wideband ground radio family for international customers, the rf-7850x, which covers all echelons of the battlefield with soldier handheld, vehicular and fixed-site radio products; our wideband high frequency ( hf ) manpack radios, the nsa type-1-certified rf-300h for the u.s. military and the rf-7800h for international customers, which are wideband-capable tactical hf radios that are smaller, lighter and deliver data faster than prior generations of hf radios and can serve as an alternative for beyond-line-of-sight transmission of classified images, maps and other large data files in circumstances where satellite communication ( satcom ) is denied; our single-channel airborne radios, which include the nsa type-1-certified rf-300m-dl small secure data link multiband radio for integration in size, weight and power-constrained environments, as well as the arc-201d and arc-201e radios for dod and international very high frequency network interoperability; and our multi-channel airborne radios, which include the rf-7850a for interoperability with our rf-7800 family of international ground radios, as well as a 2-channel airborne radio platform we provide to viasat, inc. to be built into the kor-24a multi-channel, link-16 small tactical terminal. unlike many of our competitors operating on a government-funded programs-driven business model, we operate in this market principally on a commercial market-driven business model. this means that we anticipate market needs, invest our internal research and development resources, build to our internal forecast and provide ready-to-ship, commercial off-the-shelf ( cots ) products to customers, enabling us to bring products to market faster and adapt to changing customer requirements. we believe that the need to connect disparate networks using internet protocol ( ip )-based technology is driving a modernization cycle in the u.s. and internationally. we believe our business model, which drives speed and innovation, coupled with the scale provided by our international presence, will continue to make us competitive in the global market. we have been investing to position ourselves for tactical radio modernization opportunities, including in our next-generation manpack and handheld solutions for the jtrs handheld, manpack and small form fit ( hms ) program and u.s. special operations command ( socom ) special operations forces tactical communications ( stc ) programs. we also believe the demand to extend ground tactical networks to the air, combined with our arc-201 sincgars airborne radios, creates opportunities for us in manned and unmanned airborne applications. examples of significant recent awards for us include the following: a 10-year (5-year base, 5 option years), multi-award indefinite delivery indefinite quantity ( idiq ) contract from the u.s. army in fiscal 2015 for rifleman radios and associated services under the hms program; a 10-year (5-year base, one 5-year option), multi-award idiq contract from the u.s. army in fiscal 2016 for multi-channel manpack radios under the hms program; a 6-year, single-award idiq contract from socom in fiscal 2016 for a new integrated 2-channel handheld tactical radio; a 5-year, single-award follow-on foreign military sales idiq contract from the u.s. army communications-electronics command ( cecom ) in fiscal 2016 to supply secure tactical communication solutions; a 5-year, single-award foreign military sales idiq contract from cecom in fiscal 2016 to supply sincgars tactical solutions; a 5-year, single-award idiq contract from the u.s. defense logistics agency in fiscal 2017 to provide tactical radio spare parts to the u.s. army and federal civilian agencies; 4 a 10-year (5-year base, one 5-year option), multi-award idiq contract from the u.s. air force in fiscal 2017 for cryptographic and information assurance products; and a 6-year, single-award idiq contract from socom in fiscal 2017 to supply next-generation multi-channel multiband manpack radios to enable superior communications for u.s. special operations forces. in addition, we produce high-performance, advanced, vision-enhancing products for u.s. and allied military and security forces, incorporating our image intensification and sensor fusion technology. we develop, produce and supply generation 3 image intensification technology for u.s. and allied military and security forces. we provide an/pvs-14 and an/pvs-7 ground night vision goggles and spare image intensifier tubes to the u.s. and allied militaries, via foreign military sales, and we are the primary supplier to the u.s. military for the an/avs-6 and an/avs-9 aviation night vision goggles, which provide rotary- and fixed-wing aircraft pilots the ability to operate in extreme low-light situations. we also developed the enhanced night vision goggle ( envg ) system, which optically overlays traditional night vision imagery with longwave thermal infrared imagery. the envg system enables users to effectively operate in extreme low-light and obscured battlefield conditions. we also design and manufacture other communications-related products which, when combined with night vision and intelligence dissemination products, form the individual soldier system integrated solution. public safety and professional communications: we are a global supplier of mission-critical secure communication systems and equipment for federal, state and local public safety, utility, commercial and transportation organizations. we design, build, supply and maintain wireless communications systems. our voice, interoperability, data and access ( vida ) network platform is a unified ip-based voice and data communication system that provides network-level interoperable communications among public safety agencies by supporting a full line of communication systems, including p25 ip industry wide open standard technology. our vida network solutions currently serve as the backbone in some of the largest and most advanced statewide and regional communication networks in north america. we also are investing in next-generation, secure public safety-grade long term evolution ( lte ) solutions for voice, video and data applications. we offer a full range of single-band land mobile radio ( lmr ) terminals, as well as multiband radios that include a handheld radio and a full-spectrum mobile radio for vehicles. our multiband radios cover all public safety frequency bands in a single radio; operate on association of public safety communications officials - international ( apco ) p25 conventional and trunked systems; and include advanced capabilities, such as an internal global positioning system receiver for situational awareness, internal secure bluetooth wireless technology and background noise suppression features. they also have true software-defined radio architecture that allows flexibility for future growth, including an upgrade to apco p25 phase 2, the next-generation standard for mission-critical communications. our radios' multiband, multi-mode capabilities enable a single radio to communicate with multiple organizations, jurisdictions and agencies operating on different frequencies and systems. our xl-200p multiband radio adds wifi, wifi hotspot and lte capabilities, as well as push-to-talk voice over ip in both wifi and lte, to p25/lmr capabilities and provides first responders the ability to communicate outside of their lmr coverage jurisdiction. we also offer our symphony tm dispatch console system, which features a space-saving hardware platform and an advanced user interface to simplify workflow and is customizable to enhance efficiencies. our beon secure group communications application is designed to enable emergency response teams and public safety users to connect to their network seamlessly from a smartphone, tablet or personal computer for p25 push-to-talk interoperability without the added expense of an additional lmr terminal and provides a direct connection to the network backbone of many lmr systems. other examples of our public safety and professional communications solutions and services include the following: deploying digital trunked, statewide, multi-agency systems for the states of florida, maine and nevada; deploying large, wide-area and multi-state lmr systems for some of the largest utility companies in the u.s.; deploying for the dod-national capitol region network in the washington, d.c. area a wide-area, ip-based p25 network that links nearly 20 military bases, providing wireless communications for military bases throughout the national capitol region, and that allows interoperability with local public safety agencies to provide one integrated regional network; designing and building the alberta first responders radio communications system for public safety communications within the 256,000 square-mile province of alberta, canada; and designing, deploying and maintaining an apco p25 system for the new york metropolitan transportation authority police to connect their police operations throughout 14 counties in new york and connecticut and to help them support more than 14 million daily commuters. revenue, operating income and backlog: revenue for our communication systems segment in fiscal 2017 , 2016 and 2015 was $1,753 million , $1,864 million and $1,836 million , respectively. segment operating income in fiscal 2017 , 2016 and 2015 was $524 million , $522 million and $553 million , respectively. the percentage of our revenue contributed by this segment in fiscal 2017 , 2016 and 2015 was 30 percent , 31 percent and 47 percent , respectively. the percentage of this segment's revenue in fiscal 2017 that was derived outside of the u.s. was approximately 50 percent . the percentage of this segment's revenue in 5 fiscal 2017 that was derived from sales to u.s. government customers, including foreign military sales funded through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, was approximately 42 percent . for a general description of our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, including a discussion of revenue generated thereunder and of cost-reimbursable versus fixed-price contracts, see item 1. business - principal customers; government contracts of this report. in general, this segment's domestic products are sold and serviced directly to customers through its sales organization and through established distribution channels. internationally, this segment markets and sells its products and services through regional sales offices and established distribution channels. for a general description of our international business, see item 1. business - international business of this report. the funded backlog for this segment was approximately $1.1 billion at the end of fiscal 2017 compared with approximately $1.0 billion at the end of fiscal 2016. additional information regarding funded backlog is provided under item 1. business - funded backlog of this report. for a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, see item 1. business - principal customers; government contracts, item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this report. electronic systems electronic systems provides electronic warfare, avionics and c4isr solutions, including robotics, advanced communications, integrated battle management solutions and maritime systems, for the defense industry and atm solutions for the civil aviation industry. many of our electronic systems segment solutions include reliable, resilient and innovative cyber capabilities. we design, develop, produce and sell electronic warfare solutions for airborne, maritime and ground applications to most u.s. military service branches and to classified customers and allied nations. our electronic warfare capabilities include threat identification, electronic countermeasures, decoys and expendables, strategic and situational support, electronic attack, passive coastal defense, radar, counter-improvised explosive devices ( ieds ) and border surveillance. we have provided electronic warfare solutions for strategic and tactical fixed-wing and rotary aircraft such as the f/a-18e/f super hornet ( f/a-18 ), f-16, b1-b, b-52, mc-130h, ac-130u, mh-60, mh-47 and cv-22 aircraft, and we also provide maritime electronic support measures ( esm ) for surface and subsurface vessels. examples of our airborne electronic warfare technology include sophisticated sensor fusion for multispectral situational awareness, as well as internal and podded self-protection and jamming capabilities. examples of our maritime electronic warfare technology include esm systems for situational awareness and threat detection, including emitter identification to support tactical decisions and indications of possible hostile intentions; integrated self-protection systems and decoys that operate at every layer of shipboard defense; and electronic attack capabilities to disrupt and deny enemy operations. an example of our ground electronic warfare technology is counter-radio controlled ied technology that protects ground forces in asymmetrical combat environments by continually scanning for threatening radio frequency signals and denying enemy use of these portions of the electromagnetic spectrum, without disrupting friendly signals and keeping lines of communication open. we also develop and supply state-of-the-art wireless voice and data products and solutions. we supply to the u.s. navy and allied navies a broad range of undersea warfare systems for maritime platforms and environments, including minesweeping systems, shipboard command and control systems, anti-submarine warfare sonar systems, data link systems, submarine flank and passive towed arrays, and acoustic sensors for military and commercial uses. we produce influence and mechanical minesweeping systems and mine countermeasures that detect and neutralize subsurface threats to military and commercial maritime vessels. for example, our minesweeping technologies identify and safely detonate acoustic, magnetic and multiple-influence sea mines to enable naval operations and keep commercial vessels safe. our transducer arrays are used in sonar and acoustic systems to support navigation and situational awareness, through search, detection, tracking and classification of targets, as well as capabilities for anti-submarine and torpedo self-defense. we have decades of experience designing, testing and integrating advanced avionics equipment, electronics and software, including cockpit communications, digital maps, processors, sensors, data buses, fiber optics, microelectronics and conformal wideband antennas. we are a supplier of avionics systems and products on a variety of aircraft platforms, including the f-35 lightning ii ( f-35 ) and the f/a-18. for f-35 and f/a-18 aircraft, we provide high-performance, advanced avionics such as high-speed fiber optic networking and switching, image processing, digital map software and other electronic components, including multifunction advanced data link communication subsystems primarily intended for stealth platform air-to-air communications with other network nodes without revealing positions. our advanced antenna technologies provide communication, navigation, direction-finding and electronic warfare capabilities for military aircraft. we design and produce aircraft carriage and release equipment and weapons interface systems for fighter jets, surveillance aircraft and unmanned aerial vehicles for the u.s. military and allied forces. our carriage and release technology provides capabilities necessary for aircraft to successfully deliver mission payloads and support a variety of aircraft stores, including weapons, sonobuoys, electronics pods, fuel tanks and even unmanned vehicles. our racks and launchers are components on 6 aircraft including the f-35, f-22 raptor, f/a-18, f-15e strike eagle, f-16 fighting falcon, p-8a poseidon and mq-9 reaper. in addition to current pyrotechnic release technology, we have developed next-generation pneumatic and electronically actuated release systems. our control electronics provide aircraft with the ability to communicate directly with smart and precision-guidance payloads and create compatibility between a wide range of stores and platforms. we provide c4isr solutions based on our major technology capabilities that include advanced ground control systems; satcom terminals for highly mobile, man-portable tactical, strategic fixed-site ground installation and shipboard receiver applications; and platform integration for battlefield management systems. our satcom terminals connect forces with communication satellites to deliver mission-critical data, including high-resolution imagery and video requiring enormous bandwidth, securely and reliably to any platform. as an example, under the u.s. army modernization of enterprise terminals ( met ) program, we developed next-generation large satellite earth stations to provide the worldwide backbone for high-priority military communications and missile defense systems and to support ip and dedicated circuit connectivity within the global information grid, providing critical reach-capability for the warfighter. we also serve as a platform integrator for battlefield management systems for u.s. and allied military forces in order to integrate data from a variety of platforms and sensors in support of planning and execution of operations, including terrain analysis, route management and global distribution of tactical and operational information, and to help military forces digitize their operations, providing a continuous, real-time platform for situational awareness and staff functions, including hostile and blue force tracking, radio communications, planning, personnel, intelligence, local weather and other data. for example, we are providing an integrated battle management system to the united arab emirates armed forces under a 2-year contract awarded in fiscal 2017 for the emirates command &amp; control system land tactical systems ( bms-elts ) program. we design and manufacture high-performance radar systems and signal intelligence systems for both domestic and international military customers. our core radar capabilities include air defense radar, air traffic control ( atc ) radar and airborne multifunction radar. our advanced radar technologies support military and domestic operation missions in homeland security, law enforcement, search and rescue, disaster relief and environmental science. we provide electronic warfare and signals intelligence systems for reconnaissance and surveillance for electronic intelligence, esm, electronic counter measures and signals intelligence applications. we develop advanced, custom solutions that provide our government and commercial customers with self-protection, data protection, enhanced communications and situational awareness. we specialize in satellite-based communication systems, ground electronic warfare systems, commercial wireless technologies, tagging, tracking and locating, and information assurance. to combat the anti-access/area denial ( a2/ad ) threat, we leverage an adaptive multi-platform approach to ensure that users can connect and share data globally without being constrained by terrain or distance. we integrate data devices into a2/ad-resilient architectures that provide a secure global backbone for c4isr capabilities against sophisticated adversaries. our atm solutions include implementing and managing large, complex programs and integrating secure, advanced, standards-based communications and information processing technologies in order to provide highly reliable, customized, mission-critical communication systems, and surveillance solutions that meet the most demanding needs for our customers, including the faa and other civil and military air navigation service providers ( ansps ), airports, airlines and system integrators. as an example of our capabilities, we are the prime contractor and system architect for the faa telecommunications infrastructure ( fti ) program to integrate, modernize, operate and maintain the communications infrastructure for the u.s. atc system. we designed and deployed, and are currently operating and maintaining, the fti network, which is a fully operational, modern, secure and efficient network providing voice, data and video communications deployed at approximately 4,500 faa sites across the u.s. (including administrative sites supported by the fti network). as part of the faa's next generation air transportation system ( nextgen ) initiative to transform the u.s. atc system to meet future requirements, we are: transforming voice-based atc to automated atm under the data communications integrated services ( datacomm ) program (including the data communications network service component); delivering systems for modern voice over internet protocol ( voip ) communications among air traffic controllers, pilots and ground personnel under the national airspace system ( nas ) voice system contract; designing and implementing a system that provides real-time weather information across the nas under the common support services weather program; providing enterprise-wide data sharing for critical information such as flight planning, traffic flow, surface radar and weather under a nas enterprise messaging service idiq contract for the systems-wide information management program; and designing, building and operating a nationwide system of radio communications, telecommunications networks, it and software to deliver highly accurate, networked, real-time surveillance data to the automated systems of the faa, 7 as the prime contractor on the automatic dependent surveillance-broadcast ( ads-b ) program to modernize from a ground-based to a satellite-based system of atm. we also have developed a number of other solutions under faa programs, including a voice switching and control system providing the critical air-to-ground communication links between en-route aircraft and air traffic controllers throughout the continental u.s.; an integrated weather briefing and flight planning system for alaska's general aviation community; a meteorological data processing system that generates radar mosaic data for air traffic controller displays and delivers weather data to critical subsystems within the nas; and a satellite-based, interfacility communication system linking the alaskan air route traffic control center in anchorage with faa facilities throughout the region. we have extended our integrated network systems capabilities to the commercial aviation market with symphony , our comprehensive, web-based application suite that enables key business functions, such as flight information display systems, billing, auditing, resource allocation, environmental monitoring and situational awareness, for airports and airlines to improve efficiencies in their operations. in addition, we were awarded a 14-year (7-year base, 7-year option), single-award idiq contract from the state of florida in fiscal 2017 to provide myfloridanet-2, a state-wide secure communications network with about 4,000 sites connecting public safety, law enforcement and other state and local government agencies. as noted above, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016, we completed the divestiture of aerostructures. revenue, operating income and backlog: revenue for our electronic systems segment in fiscal 2017 , 2016 and 2015 was $2,251 million , $2,233 million and $1,019 million , respectively. segment operating income in fiscal 2017 , 2016 and 2015 was $464 million , $430 million and $163 million , respectively. the percentage of our revenue contributed by this segment in fiscal 2017 , 2016 and 2015 was 38 percent , 37 percent and 26 percent , respectively. the percentages of this segment's revenue under contracts directly with end customers and under contracts with prime contractors in fiscal 2017 were approximately 73 percent and 27 percent , respectively. in fiscal 2017 , this segment had a diverse portfolio of over 200 programs. some of this segment's more significant programs in fiscal 2017 included fti, f-35, ads-b, f/a-18e/f, met and bms-elts. the percentages of this segment's revenue in fiscal 2017 represented by this segment's largest program by revenue and ten largest programs by revenue were approximately 12 percent and 55 percent , respectively. the percentage of this segment's revenue in fiscal 2017 that was derived from sales to u.s. government customers, including foreign military sales funded through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, was approximately 82 percent . for a general description of our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, including a discussion of revenue generated thereunder and of cost-reimbursable versus fixed-price contracts, see item 1. business - principal customers; government contracts of this report. the funded backlog for this segment was approximately $1.9 billion at the end of each of fiscal 2017 and 2016. additional information regarding funded backlog is provided under item 1. business - funded backlog of this report. for a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, see item 1. business - principal customers; government contracts, item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this report. space and intelligence systems space and intelligence systems provides intelligence, space protection, geospatial, complete earth observation, universe exploration, pnt, and environmental solutions for national security, defense, civil and commercial customers, using advanced sensors, antennas and payloads, as well as ground processing and information analytics. many of our space and intelligence systems segment solutions include reliable, resilient and innovative cyber capabilities. we develop, supply and integrate communication and information processing products, systems and networks for a diverse base of classified programs. serving primarily u.s. intelligence community customers, including the nsa, the national geospatial intelligence agency ( nga ), the national reconnaissance office and the defense intelligence agency, we provide integrated isr solutions that improve situational awareness and intelligence value to decision makers. in addition, we have advanced capabilities in the architecture, design and development of highly specialized satellite antennas, structures, phased arrays and on-board reconfigurable processors that are used to enable next-generation satellite systems to provide the u.s. military and intelligence community with strategic and tactical advantages. although classified programs generally are not discussed in this report, the operating results relating to classified programs are included in our consolidated financial statements. we believe that the business risks associated with our classified programs do not differ materially from the business risks associated with our other u.s. government programs. to help our u.s. government customers gain, maintain and exploit space superiority, we provide the full spectrum of enterprise architecture services that support the long-term planning, development, integration and sustainment of highly advanced, mission-critical space-based and ground-based surveillance systems. we provide space situational awareness and design, integrate and sustain space control systems. for example, we sustain, maintain and modernize large radar installations 8 globally and provide engineering support and sustainment for ground-based systems that support u.s. missile warning, missile defense and space surveillance missions for the u.s. air force under the system engineering and sustainment integrator ( sensor ) program. we provide integrated real-time, autonomous geospatial solutions, extending from image and data collection through processing, exploitation and dissemination of actionable intelligence. our specialized capabilities include highly reliable remote sensing systems for ground, air, sea and space; data encryption; information processing; real-time forensic and predictive analytics; and system performance modeling and simulation. we also provide ground processing and analytics solutions that map and monitor earth for a variety of government and commercial users. our geospatial solutions suite of products and services are designed to make it easier and more cost effective for customers to analyze the physical environment and obtain actionable information for more informed decisions, through advanced data collection sources, innovative software tools, and high-volume, high-accuracy processing services. examples of these advanced products and solutions include: providing geospatial content management and imagery products for two of three regions for the foundation geoint content management ( fgcm ) program under two 5-year, single-award idiq contracts awarded in fiscal 2014 by the nga; and developing software for faster and more efficient search and retrieval of data from intelligence systems under a 5-year, single-award idiq contract awarded in fiscal 2017 by the nga. our complete earth observation solutions encompass comprehensive space, airborne, ground and sea remote sensing capabilities, from end-to-end remote sensing systems for global and regional situational awareness to integrated processing solutions on the ground and on airborne platforms that extract critical information and reduce time to high-confidence decisions. we specialize in remote sensing payloads that offer weather and environmental imagery, radar, video, tracking and multi-spectral information, as well as the processing, exploitation and dissemination of the data from these payloads to support our customers' missions. our environmental solutions monitor and evaluate our global environment with ground-based and space-based remote sensing, change detection and data processing. we design, develop and build instruments to help measure, understand and monitor real-time weather and environmental trends to support decision making for government agencies, scientists, businesses and policy makers. in space, advanced environmental satellite systems utilize our imagers and sounders to deliver weather and environmental data back to earth at high resolutions and speeds. on the ground, our satellite ground data processing systems, consisting of suites of hardware and software, receive sensor data from satellites and turn it into actionable information. our weather ground systems, for example, are capable of handling multiple missions simultaneously across a common architecture and enable users to maximize the benefits of our new environmental imaging technology. an example of our capabilities is our complete, end-to-end solution under the national oceanic and atmospheric administration ( noaa ) geostationary operational environmental satellite - series r ( goes-r ) ground and antenna segment weather programs. we designed, developed and delivered to noaa the ground segment system that receives and processes satellite data, generates and distributes weather data to more than 10,000 direct users, and commands and controls the goes-r satellites. we are also supplying antennas and control systems that will provide communication links for command, telemetry and sensor data, as well as the communication link to direct data users. as an additional example, we are providing satellite sensors to measure pressure, moisture and thermal radiation for nasa's joint polar satellite system program. we are a global provider of pnt products, systems and solutions. for example, our u.s. global positioning system ( gps ) navigation systems comprise high-performance, reliable, cost-effective gps payload, control and interference location solutions. our navigation payload technology is an integral component of gps satellites and supports gps availability, accuracy and integrity. we currently are deploying advanced technologies under the gps iii program to improve the accuracy and reliability of the next generation of gps satellites. we also develop small, affordable, high-resolution, commercial imaging systems. we design, develop, manufacture and integrate agile and high-performance modular, reconfigurable space payloads that maximize mission performance. we help our customers achieve their space missions more quickly and cost effectively by brokering, designing and integrating multimission satellite hosted payloads. for example, we supplied aireon, llc with ads-b receiver payloads that will be part of a satellite-based aircraft tracking system to enhance global atc. the payloads will be hosted on the iridium next satellite constellation, but will provide a capability separate from the main mission of the constellation. we are placing additional commercial missions on the iridium next constellation by partnering with exactearth ltd. to track maritime vessels and deliver robust global shipping information through access to satellite automated identification system data. using our experience with hosted payloads, we are expanding into agile and resilient small satellite solutions, which we believe are aligned with the u.s. government's disaggregation and affordability initiatives. we also provide space antenna systems and precision space structures. we are an experienced space reflector manufacturer and specialize in large, high-accuracy reflectors. from unfurlable and fixed-mesh reflector antennas to solid spot 9 beam antennas, our solutions deliver significantly higher data rates and access greater amounts of bandwidth than standard satellite antenna technologies. other examples of our solutions for commercial customers include the following: our commercial tool suite to enable customers to extract information from geospatial imagery products, which consists of our jagwire web-based geospatial data management software that quickly discovers data, transforms it into information and delivers it to decision makers, even in low bandwidth environments; and our envi image analysis software that analyzes virtually any geospatial data type; our geospatial marketplace, which offers online access to geospatial imagery and data, off-the-shelf data products such as digital elevation models and orthomosaics, and customized geospatial products for visual simulation databases or to meet customer-specific project requirements; and our unique, company-owned high-value commercial information for commercial and civil government markets, such as data from our geiger-mode light detection and ranging ( lidar ) sensor that measures distance by illuminating a target with a laser, making large-scale and high-density point-cloud images possible at affordable prices. revenue, operating income and backlog: revenue for our space and intelligence systems segment in fiscal 2017 , 2016 and 2015 was $1,902 million , $1,899 million and $1,007 million , respectively. segment operating income in fiscal 2017 , 2016 and 2015 was $311 million , $288 million and $136 million , respectively. the percentage of our revenue contributed by this segment in fiscal 2017 , 2016 and 2015 was 32 percent , 32 percent and 26 percent , respectively. the percentages of this segment's revenue under contracts directly with end customers and under contracts with prime contractors in fiscal 2017 were approximately 72 percent and 28 percent , respectively. in fiscal 2017 , this segment had a diverse portfolio of over 200 programs. some of this segment's more significant programs in fiscal 2017 included sensor, goes-r, gps and various classified programs. the percentages of this segment's revenue in fiscal 2017 represented by this segment's largest program by revenue and ten largest programs by revenue were approximately 8 percent and 46 percent , respectively. the percentage of this segment's revenue in fiscal 2017 that was derived from sales to u.s. government customers, including foreign military sales funded through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, was approximately 95 percent . for a general description of our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, including a discussion of revenue generated thereunder and of cost-reimbursable versus fixed-price contracts, see item 1. business - principal customers; government contracts of this report. the funded backlog for this segment was approximately $1.1 billion at the end of each of fiscal 2017 and 2016. additional information regarding funded backlog is provided under item 1. business - funded backlog of this report. for a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, see item 1. business - principal customers; government contracts, item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this report. international business revenue from products and services exported from the u.s., including foreign military sales, or manufactured or rendered abroad in fiscal 2017 , 2016 and 2015 was $1.3 billion ( 22 percent of our revenue), $1.2 billion ( 20 percent of our revenue) and $1.1 billion ( 29 percent of our revenue), respectively. most of our international sales were derived from our communication systems segment. direct export sales are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars, whereas sales from foreign subsidiaries are generally denominated in the local currency of the subsidiary. financial information regarding our domestic and international operations, including long-lived assets, is contained in note 24: business segments in the notes and is incorporated herein by reference. the majority of our international marketing activities are conducted through subsidiaries that operate in europe, asia, the middle east, africa, australia and canada. we have also established international marketing organizations and several regional sales offices. for further information regarding our international subsidiaries, see exhibit 21 of this report. we utilize indirect sales channels, including dealers, distributors and sales representatives, in the marketing and sale of some lines of products and equipment, both domestically and internationally. these independent representatives may buy for resale or, in some cases, solicit orders from commercial or government customers for direct sales by us. prices to the ultimate customer in many instances may be recommended or established by the independent representative and may be above or below our list prices. our dealers and distributors generally receive a discount from our list prices and may mark up those prices in setting the final sales prices paid by the customer. the percentages of our total revenue and international revenue represented by revenue from indirect sales channels in fiscal 2017 , 2016 and 2015 were approximately 11 percent and 38 percent ; 15 percent and 62 percent ; and 20 percent and 57 percent , respectively. fiscal 2017 international revenue came from a large number of countries, and no single foreign country accounted for more than 5 percent of our total revenue. some of our exports are paid for by letters of credit, with the balance carried either on an open account or installment note basis. advance payments, progress payments or other similar payments received prior to or 10 upon shipment often cover most of the related costs incurred. significant foreign government contracts generally require us to provide performance guarantees. in order to remain competitive in international markets, we also sometimes enter into offset agreements or recourse or vendor financing arrangements to facilitate sales to certain customers. the particular economic, social and political conditions for business conducted outside the u.s. differ from those encountered by domestic businesses. we believe that the overall business risk for our international business as a whole is somewhat greater than that faced by our domestic businesses as a whole. a description of the types of risks to which we are subject in our international business is contained in item 1a. risk factors of this report. in our opinion, these risks are partially mitigated by the diversification of our international business and the protection provided by letters of credit and advance payments, progress payments and other similar payments. competition we operate in highly competitive markets that are sensitive to technological advances. many of our competitors in each of our markets are larger than we are and can maintain higher levels of expenditures for research and development. in each of our markets, we concentrate on the opportunities that we believe are compatible with our resources, overall technological capabilities and objectives. principal competitive factors in these markets are product quality and reliability; technological capabilities, including reliable, resilient and innovative cyber capabilities; service; past performance; ability to develop and implement complex, integrated solutions; ability to meet delivery schedules; the effectiveness of third-party sales channels in international markets; and cost-effectiveness. we frequently partner or are involved in subcontracting and teaming relationships with companies that are, from time to time, competitors on other programs. in our communication systems segment, principal competitors include aselsan, elbit systems, general dynamics, l-3 technologies, motorola solutions, rockwell collins, raytheon, rohde &amp; schwarz, selex and thales group. in our electronic systems segment, principal competitors include at&amp;t, bae systems, boeing, general dynamics, l-3 technologies, leidos, lockheed martin, northrop grumman, raytheon and rockwell collins. in our space and intelligence systems segment, principal competitors include bae systems, boeing, general dynamics, l-3 technologies, lockheed martin, northrop grumman, raytheon and rockwell collins. principal customers; government contracts the percentage of our revenue that was derived from sales to u.s. government customers, including foreign military sales funded through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, in fiscal 2017 , 2016 and 2015 was approximately 74 percent , 77 percent and 66 percent , respectively. no other customer accounted for more than 5 percent of our revenue in fiscal 2017 . additional information regarding customers for each of our segments is provided under item 1. business description of business by segment of this report. our u.s. government sales are predominantly derived from contracts with agencies of, and prime contractors to, the u.s. government. most of the sales in our electronic systems and space and intelligence systems segments are made directly or indirectly to the u.s. government under contracts or subcontracts containing standard government contract clauses providing for redetermination of profits, if applicable, and for termination for the convenience of the u.s. government or for default based on performance. our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts include both cost-reimbursable and fixed-price contracts. government-wide acquisition contracts ( gwacs ) and multi-vendor idiq contracts, which can include task orders for each contract type, require us to compete both for the initial contract and then for individual task or delivery orders under such contracts. our u.s. government cost-reimbursable contracts provide for the reimbursement of allowable costs plus payment of a fee and fall into three basic types: (i) cost-plus fixed-fee contracts, which provide for payment of a fixed fee irrespective of the final cost of performance; (ii) cost-plus incentive-fee contracts, which provide for payment of a fee that may increase or decrease, within specified limits, based on actual results compared with contractual targets relating to factors such as cost, performance and delivery schedule; and (iii) cost-plus award-fee contracts, which provide for payment of an award fee determined at the customer's discretion based on our performance against pre-established performance criteria. under our u.s. government cost-reimbursable contracts, we are reimbursed periodically for allowable costs and are paid a portion of the fee based on contract progress. some overhead costs have been made partially or wholly unallowable for reimbursement by statute or regulation. examples include certain merger and acquisition costs, lobbying costs, charitable contributions, interest expense and certain litigation defense costs. our u.s. government fixed-price contracts are either firm fixed-price contracts or fixed-price incentive contracts. under our u.s. government firm fixed-price contracts, we agree to perform a specific scope of work for a fixed price and, as a result, benefit from cost savings and carry the burden of cost overruns. under our u.s. government fixed-price incentive contracts, we share with the u.s. government both savings accrued for performance at less than target cost as well as costs incurred in excess of target cost up to a negotiated ceiling price, which is higher than the target cost, but carry the entire burden of costs exceeding the negotiated ceiling price. accordingly, under such incentive contracts, profit may also be adjusted up or down depending on 11 whether specified performance objectives are met. under our u.s. government firm fixed-price and fixed-price incentive contracts, we generally receive from the u.s. government either milestone payments totaling 100 percent of the contract price or monthly progress payments in amounts equaling 80 percent of costs incurred under the contract. the remaining amounts, including profits or incentive fees, are billed upon delivery and final acceptance of end items and deliverables under the contract. our production contracts are mainly fixed-price contracts, and development contracts are generally cost-reimbursable contracts. as stated above, u.s. government contracts are terminable for the convenience of the u.s. government, as well as for default based on performance. companies supplying goods and services to the u.s. government are dependent on congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of funds and may be affected by changes in u.s. government policies resulting from various military, political, economic and international developments. long-term u.s. government contracts and related orders are subject to cancellation if appropriations for subsequent performance periods become unavailable. under contracts terminable for the convenience of the u.s. government, a contractor is entitled to receive payments for its allowable costs and, in general, the proportionate share of fees or earnings for the work done. contracts that are terminable for default generally provide that the u.s. government pays only for the work it has accepted and may require the contractor to pay for the incremental cost of re-procurement and may hold the contractor liable for damages. in many cases, there is also uncertainty relating to the complexity of designs, necessity for design improvements and difficulty in forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work. under many u.s. government contracts, we are required to maintain facility and personnel security clearances complying with dod and other federal agency requirements. for further discussion of risks relating to u.s. government contracts, see item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this report. funded backlog total company-wide funded backlog at the end of fiscal 2017 and 2016 was approximately $4.2 billion and $4.0 billion , respectively. the determination of backlog involves substantial estimating, particularly with respect to customer requirements contracts and development and production contracts of a cost-reimbursable or incentive nature. the level of order activity related to u.s. government programs can be affected by timing of u.s. government funding authorizations and project evaluation cycles. year-over-year comparisons could, at times, be impacted by these factors, among others. we define funded backlog as unfilled firm orders for products and services for which funding has been authorized and, in the case of u.s. government customers, appropriated. in fiscal 2018, we expect to convert to revenue approximately 64 percent of our total funded backlog as of the end of fiscal 2017. however, we can give no assurance of such fulfillment or that our funded backlog will become revenue in any particular period, if at all. backlog is subject to delivery delays and program cancellations, which are beyond our control. research and development company-sponsored research and development ( r&amp;d ) costs, which included r&amp;d for commercial products and services and independent r&amp;d related to government products and services, as well as concept formulation studies and technology development that occurs on certain bid and proposal efforts, in fiscal 2017 , 2016 and 2015 were approximately $310 million, $305 million and $276 million, respectively. a portion of our independent r&amp;d costs are allocated among contracts and programs in process under u.s. government contractual arrangements. company-sponsored r&amp;d costs not otherwise allocable are charged to expense when incurred. company-sponsored research is directed to the development of new products and services and to building technological capability in various markets. customer-sponsored r&amp;d costs are incurred pursuant to contractual arrangements, principally u.s. government-sponsored contracts requiring us to provide a product or service meeting certain defined performance or other specifications (such as designs). this research helps strengthen and broaden our technical capabilities. customer-sponsored research costs are accounted for principally by the cost-to-cost percentage-of-completion method and included in our revenue and cost of product sales and services. patents and other intellectual property we consider our patents and other intellectual property, in the aggregate, to constitute an important asset. we own a large portfolio of patents, trade secrets, know-how, confidential information, trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property, including reliable, resilient and innovative cyber capabilities, and we routinely apply for new patents, trademarks and copyrights. we also license intellectual property to and from third parties. as of june 30, 2017 , we held approximately 1,800 u.s. patents and 1,240 foreign patents, and had approximately 160 u.s. patent applications pending and 390 foreign patent applications pending. unpatented research, development and engineering skills also make an important contribution to our business. although our intellectual property rights in the aggregate are important to our business and the operations of our business segments, we do not consider our business or any business segment to be materially dependent on any single patent, license or other intellectual property right, or any group of related patents, licenses or other intellectual property rights. we are 12 engaged in a proactive patent licensing program and have entered into a number of licenses and cross-license agreements, some of which generate royalty income. although existing license agreements have generated income in past years and may do so in the future, there can be no assurances we will enter into additional income-producing license agreements. from time to time we engage in litigation to protect our patents and other intellectual property. any of our patents, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights and other proprietary rights could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or may not provide competitive advantages. for further discussion of risks relating to intellectual property, see item 1a. risk factors of this report. with regard to certain patents, the u.s. government has an irrevocable, non-exclusive, royalty-free license, pursuant to which the u.s. government may use or authorize others to use the inventions covered by such patents. pursuant to similar arrangements, the u.s. government may consent to our use of inventions covered by patents owned by other persons. numerous trademarks used on or in connection with our products are also considered to be a valuable asset. environmental and other regulations our facilities and operations are subject to numerous domestic and international laws and regulations designed to protect the environment, particularly with regard to wastes and emissions. the applicable environmental laws and regulations are common within the industries and markets in which we operate and serve. we believe that we have complied with these requirements and that such compliance has not had a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we have installed waste treatment facilities and pollution control equipment to satisfy legal requirements and to achieve our waste minimization and prevention goals. a portion of our environmental expenditures relates to businesses or operations we no longer own, but for which we have retained certain environmental liabilities. we did not spend material amounts on environmental-related capital projects in fiscal 2017 , 2016 or 2015 . based on currently available information, we do not expect capital expenditures in fiscal 2018 or over the next several years to protect the environment and to comply with current environmental laws and regulations, as well as to comply with current and pending climate control legislation, regulation, treaties and accords, to be material or to have a material impact on our competitive position or financial condition, but we can give no assurance that such expenditures will not exceed current expectations, and such expenditures may increase in future years. if future treaties, laws and regulations contain more stringent requirements than presently anticipated, actual expenditures may be higher than our present estimates of those expenditures. additional information regarding environmental and regulatory matters is set forth in item 3. legal proceedings of this report and in note 1: significant accounting policies and note 25: legal proceedings and contingencies in the notes. electronic products are subject to governmental environmental regulation in a number of jurisdictions, such as domestic and international requirements requiring end-of-life management and/or restricting materials in products delivered to customers, including the european union's directive 2012/19/eu on waste electrical and electronic equipment and directive 2011/65/eu on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment ( rohs ), as amended. other jurisdictions have adopted similar legislation. such requirements typically are not applicable to most equipment produced by our segments. we believe that we have complied with such rules and regulations, where applicable, with respect to our existing products sold into such jurisdictions. we intend to comply with such rules and regulations with respect to our future products. wireless communications, whether radio, satellite or telecommunications, are also subject to governmental regulation. equipment produced in our communication systems segment, in particular, is subject to domestic and international requirements to avoid interference among users of radio and television frequencies and to permit interconnection of telecommunications equipment. we are also required to comply with technical operating and licensing requirements that pertain to our wireless licenses and operations. we believe that we have complied with such rules and regulations and licenses with respect to our existing products and services, and we intend to comply with such rules and regulations and licenses with respect to our future products and services. governmental reallocation of the frequency spectrum also could impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. raw materials and supplies because of the diversity of our products and services, as well as the wide geographic dispersion of our facilities, we use numerous sources for the wide array of raw materials, such as electronic components, printed circuit boards, metals and plastics, needed for our operations and for our products. we are dependent on suppliers and subcontractors for a large number of components and subsystems and the ability of our suppliers and subcontractors to adhere to customer or regulatory materials restrictions and to meet performance and quality specifications and delivery schedules. in some instances, we are dependent on one or a few sources, either because of the specialized nature of a particular item or because of local content preference requirements pursuant to which we operate on a given project. although we have been affected by financial and performance issues of some of our suppliers and subcontractors, we have not been materially adversely affected by the inability to obtain raw materials or products. on occasion, we have experienced component shortages from vendors as a result of natural disasters, or the rohs environmental regulations in the european union or similar regulations in other jurisdictions. these events or regulations may cause a spike in demand for certain electronic components, such as lead-free components, resulting in industry- 13 wide supply chain shortages. as of june 30, 2017 , these component shortages have not had a material adverse effect on our business. for further discussion of risks relating to subcontractors and suppliers, see item 1a. risk factors of this report. seasonality we do not consider any material portion of our business to be seasonal. various factors can affect the distribution of our revenue between accounting periods, including the timing of contract awards and the timing and availability of u.s. government funding, as well as the timing of product deliveries and customer acceptance. employees we had approximately 17,000 employees at the end of fiscal 2017 . approximately 95 percent of our employees as of the end of fiscal 2017 were located in the u.s. a significant number of our employees possess a u.s. government security clearance. we also utilize a number of independent contractors. approximately 600 of our u.s. employees are working under collective bargaining agreements with labor unions and worker representatives. these collective bargaining agreements will be renegotiated at various times over the next three years as they expire. we have historically renegotiated these agreements without significant disruption to operating activities. for certain international subsidiaries, our employees are represented by workers' councils or statutory labor unions. in general, we believe that our relations with our employees are good. website access to harris reports; available information general. we maintain an internet website at https://www.harris.com . our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to such reports, filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act, are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the u.s. securities and exchange commission ( sec ). we also will provide the reports in electronic or paper form free of charge upon request to our secretary at harris corporation, 1025 west nasa boulevard, melbourne, florida 32919. we also make available free of charge on our website our annual report to shareholders and proxy statement. our website and the information posted thereon are not incorporated into this report or any current or other periodic report that we file with or furnish to the sec. all reports we file with or furnish to the sec also are available free of charge via the sec's electronic data gathering and retrieval, or edgar, system available through the sec's website at https://www.sec.gov. additional information relating to our business, including our business segments, is set forth in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report. corporate governance guidelines and committee charters. we previously adopted corporate governance guidelines, which are available on the corporate governance section of our website at https://www.harris.com/about/corporate-governance . in addition, the charters of each of the standing committees of our board, namely, the audit committee, finance committee, governance and corporate responsibility committee and management development and compensation committee, are also available on the corporate governance section of our website. a copy of the charters is also available free of charge upon written request to our secretary at harris corporation, 1025 west nasa boulevard, melbourne, florida 32919. certifications. we have filed with the sec the certifications required by section 302 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 as exhibits to this report. in addition, an annual ceo certification was submitted by our chief executive officer to the nyse in november 2016 in accordance with the nyse's listing standards, which included a certification that he was not aware of any violation by harris of the nyse's corporate governance listing standards. item 1a. risk factors. we have described many of the trends and other factors that we believe could impact our business and future results in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report. in addition, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are subject to, and could be materially adversely affected by, various risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, those set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or our anticipated future results. we depend on u.s. government customers for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of these relationships, a reduction in u.s. government funding or a change in u.s. government spending priorities could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are highly dependent on sales to u.s. government customers. the percentage of our revenue that was derived from sales to u.s. government customers, including foreign military sales funded through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, in fiscal 2017 , 2016 and 2015 was approximately 74 percent , 77 percent and 66 percent , respectively. therefore, any significant disruption or deterioration of our relationship with the u.s. government would significantly reduce our revenue. our competitors continuously engage in efforts to expand their business relationships with the 14 u.s. government and will continue these efforts in the future, and the u.s. government may choose to use other contractors. we expect that a majority of the business that we seek will be awarded through competitive bidding. the u.s. government has increasingly relied on certain types of contracts that are subject to multiple competitive bidding processes, including multi-vendor idiq, gwac, general services administration schedule and other multi-award contracts, which has resulted in greater competition and increased pricing pressure. we operate in highly competitive markets, many of our competitors having greater financial resources than we do, and our competitors may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do in some areas, and we may not be able to continue to win competitively awarded contracts or to obtain task orders under multi-award contracts. further, the competitive bidding process involves significant cost and managerial time to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us or may be split among competitors, as well as the risk that we may fail to accurately estimate the resources and costs required to fulfill any contract awarded to us. the current competitive environment has resulted in unsuccessful bidders more frequently initiating bid protests. following any contract award, we may experience significant expense or delay, contract modification or contract rescission as a result of our competitors protesting or challenging contracts awarded to us in competitive bidding. our u.s. government programs must compete with programs managed by other government contractors and with other policy imperatives for consideration for limited resources and for uncertain levels of funding during the budget and appropriations process. budget and appropriations decisions made by the u.s. government are outside of our control and have long-term consequences for our business. u.s. government spending priorities and levels remain uncertain and difficult to predict and are affected by numerous factors, including sequestration (automatic, across-the-board u.s. government budgetary spending cuts) and potential alternative funding arrangements. a change in u.s. government spending priorities or an increase in non-procurement spending at the expense of our programs, or a reduction in total u.s. government spending, could have material adverse consequences on our current or future business. the inability of the u.s. government to pass a budget, potentially leading to a continuing resolution (flat funding levels) or to a u.s. government shutdown, also could have material adverse consequences on our current or future business. for more information regarding sequestration, see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations business considerations industry-wide opportunities, challenges and risks of this report. we depend significantly on u.s. government contracts, which often are only partially funded, subject to immediate termination, and heavily regulated and audited. the termination or failure to fund, or negative audit findings for, one or more of these contracts could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. over its lifetime, a u.s. government program may be implemented by the award of many different individual contracts and subcontracts. the funding of u.s. government programs is subject to congressional appropriations. although multi-year contracts may be authorized and appropriated in connection with major procurements, congress generally appropriates funds on a government fiscal year basis. procurement funds are typically made available for obligation over the course of one to three years. consequently, programs often receive only partial funding initially, and additional funds are obligated only as congress authorizes further appropriations. the termination of funding for a u.s. government program would result in a loss of anticipated future revenue attributable to that program, which could have an adverse impact on our operations. in addition, the termination of a program or the failure to commit additional funds to a program that already has been started could result in lost revenue and increase our overall costs of doing business. generally, u.s. government contracts are subject to oversight audits by u.s. government representatives. such audits could result in adjustments to our contract costs. any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, and such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. we have recorded contract revenue based on costs we expect to realize upon final audit. however, we do not know the outcome of any future audits and adjustments, and we may be required to materially reduce our revenue or profits upon completion and final negotiation of audits. negative audit findings could also result in termination of a contract, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or debarment from u.s. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. in addition, u.s. government contracts generally contain provisions permitting termination, in whole or in part, without prior notice at the u.s. government's convenience upon payment only for work done and commitments made at the time of termination. we can give no assurance that one or more of our u.s. government contracts will not be terminated under these circumstances. also, we can give no assurance that we would be able to procure new contracts to offset the revenue or backlog lost as a result of any termination of our u.s. government contracts. because a significant portion of our revenue is dependent on our performance and payment under our u.s. government contracts, the loss of one or more large contracts could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our government business also is subject to specific procurement regulations and a variety of socioeconomic and other requirements. these requirements, although customary in u.s. government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. these costs might increase in the future, thereby reducing our margins, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. failure to comply with these regulations and 15 requirements could lead to fines, penalties, repayments, or compensatory or treble damages, or suspension or debarment from u.s. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. among the causes for debarment are violations of various laws, including those related to procurement integrity, export control, u.s. government security regulations, employment practices, protection of the environment, accuracy of records, proper recording of costs and foreign corruption. the termination of a u.s. government contract or relationship as a result of any of these acts would have an adverse impact on our operations and could have an adverse effect on our standing and eligibility for future u.s. government contracts. we could be negatively impacted by a security breach, through cyber attack, cyber intrusion or otherwise, or other significant disruption of our it networks and related systems or of those we operate for certain of our customers. we face the risk, as does any company, of a security breach, whether through cyber attack or cyber intrusion over the internet, malware, computer viruses, attachments to e-mails, persons inside our organization or with access to systems inside our organization, or other significant disruption of our it networks and related systems. we face an added risk of a security breach or other significant disruption of the it networks and related systems that we develop, install, operate and maintain for certain of our customers, which may involve managing and protecting information relating to national security and other sensitive government functions or personally identifiable or protected health information. the risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. as an advanced technology-based solutions provider, and particularly as a government contractor, we face a heightened risk of a security breach or disruption from threats to gain unauthorized access to our and our customers' proprietary or classified information on our it networks and related systems and to the it networks and related systems that we operate and maintain for certain of our customers. these types of information and it networks and related systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day-to-day operations, and, in some cases, are critical to the operations of certain of our customers. although we make significant efforts to maintain the security and integrity of these types of information and it networks and related systems and have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption, there can be no assurance that our efforts and measures will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging. even the most well protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because attempted security breaches, particularly cyber attacks and intrusions, or disruptions will occur in the future, and because the techniques used in such attempts are constantly evolving and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed not to be detected and, in fact, may not be detected. in some cases, the resources of foreign governments may be behind such attacks due to the nature of our business and the industries in which we operate. accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures, and thus it is virtually impossible for us to entirely mitigate this risk. a security breach or other significant disruption involving these types of information and it networks and related systems could: disrupt the proper functioning of these networks and systems and, therefore, our operations and/or those of certain of our customers; result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of, proprietary, confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable information of ours, our customers or our employees, including trade secrets, which could be used to compete against us or for disruptive, destructive or otherwise harmful purposes and outcomes; compromise national security and other sensitive government functions; require significant management attention and resources to remedy the damages that result; subject us to claims for contract breach, damages, credits, penalties or termination; and damage our reputation with our customers (particularly agencies of the u.s. government) and the public generally. any or all of the foregoing could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the u.s. government's budget deficit, the national debt and sequestration could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the u.s. government's budget deficit, the national debt and sequestration could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in a number of ways, including the following: the u.s. government could reduce or delay its spending on, or reprioritize its spending away from, the government programs in which we participate; the u.s. government may be unable to complete its budget process before the end of its fiscal year on september 30 and thus would be required either to shut down or be funded pursuant to a continuing resolution that authorizes agencies of the u.s. government to continue operations but does not authorize new spending initiatives, either of which could result in reduced or delayed orders or payments for products and services we 16 provide, which may decrease our revenue, profitability or cash flows or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations; u.s. government spending could be impacted by sequestration or alternate arrangements, which increases the uncertainty as to, and the difficulty in predicting, u.s. government spending priorities and levels; and we may experience declines in revenue, profitability and cash flows as a result of reduced or delayed orders or payments or other factors caused by economic difficulties of our customers and prospective customers, including u.s. federal, state and local governments. the level of returns on defined benefit plan assets, changes in interest rates and other factors could affect our earnings and cash flows in future periods. a substantial portion of our current and retired employee population is covered by defined benefit pension and other postretirement defined benefit plans (collectively, defined benefit plans ), as a result of our acquisition of exelis. we may experience significant fluctuations in costs related to defined benefit plans as a result of macro-economic factors, such as interest rates, that are beyond our control. the cost of our defined benefit plans is incurred over long periods of time and involves various factors and uncertainties during those periods that can be volatile and unpredictable, including the rates of return on defined benefit plan assets, discount rates used to calculate liabilities and expenses, mortality of plan participants and trends for future medical costs. we develop our assumptions using relevant plan experience and expectations in conjunction with market-related data. our financial position and results of operations could be materially affected by significant changes in key economic indicators, financial market volatility, future legislation and other governmental regulatory actions. we will make contributions to fund our defined benefit plans when considered necessary or advantageous to do so. the macro-economic factors discussed above, including the rates of return on defined benefit plan assets and the minimum funding requirements established by government funding or taxing authorities, or established by other agreement, may influence future funding requirements. a significant decline in the fair value of our plan assets, or other adverse changes to our overall defined benefit plans, could require us to make significant funding contributions and affect cash flows in future periods. u.s. government cost accounting standards ( cas ) govern the extent to which postretirement costs and plan contributions are allocable to and recoverable under contracts with the u.s. government. as a result, we expect to continue to seek reimbursement from the u.s. government for a portion of our postretirement costs and plan contributions. on december 27, 2011 the u.s. government's cost accounting standards board published a final rule that harmonizes cas pension cost reimbursement rules with the pension protection act of 2006 ( ppa ) funding requirements. the rule is expected to eventually mitigate the mismatch between cas costs and ppa-amended employee retirement income security act of 1974 ( erisa ) minimum funding requirements, and result in an acceleration of allowable cas pension costs as compared to the prior rules. the final rule applied to exelis' contracts starting in 2013, including a five-year phase in. the full phase-in was achieved in 2017. we anticipate that government contractors will be entitled to an equitable adjustment for any additional cas contract costs resulting from the final rule, although we can give no assurances in this regard. we enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses in the event of cost overruns or a significant increase in inflation. we have a number of fixed-price contracts, which allow us to benefit from cost savings, but subject us to the risk of potential cost overruns, particularly for firm fixed-price contracts because we assume all of the cost burden. if our initial estimates are incorrect, we can lose money on these contracts. u.s. government contracts can expose us to potentially large losses because the u.s. government can hold us responsible for completing a project or, in certain circumstances, paying the entire cost of its replacement by another provider regardless of the size or foreseeability of any cost overruns that occur over the life of the contract. because many of these contracts involve new technologies and applications and can last for years, unforeseen events, such as technological difficulties, fluctuations in the price of raw materials, problems with our suppliers and cost overruns, can result in the contractual price becoming less favorable or even unprofitable to us over time. the u.s. and other countries also may experience a significant increase in inflation. a significant increase in inflation rates could have a significant adverse impact on the profitability of these contracts. furthermore, if we do not meet contract deadlines or specifications, we may need to renegotiate contracts on less favorable terms, be forced to pay penalties or liquidated damages or suffer major losses if the customer exercises its right to terminate. in addition, some of our contracts have provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights, and if we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts we may not realize their full benefits. our results of operations are dependent on our ability to maximize our earnings from our contracts. cost overruns could have an adverse impact on our financial results. the potential impact of such risk on our financial results would increase if the mix of our contracts and programs shifted toward a greater percentage of fixed-price contracts, particularly firm fixed-price contracts. we use estimates in accounting for many of our programs and changes in our estimates could adversely affect our future financial results. accounting for our contracts requires judgment relative to assessing risks, including risks associated with customer directed delays and reductions in scheduled deliveries, unfavorable resolutions of claims and contractual matters, judgments 17 associated with estimating contract revenue and costs, and assumptions for schedule and technical issues. due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenue and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. for example, we must make assumptions regarding: (i) the length of time to complete the contract because costs also include expected increases in wages and prices for materials; (ii) whether the intent of entering into multiple contracts was effectively to enter into a single project in order to determine whether such contracts should be combined or segmented; (iii) incentives or penalties related to performance on contracts in estimating revenue and profit rates, and record them when there is sufficient information for us to assess anticipated performance; and (iv) estimates of award fees in estimating revenue and profit rates based on actual and anticipated awards. because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes involved in accounting for our contracts, materially different amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. we derive a significant portion of our revenue from international operations and are subject to the risks of doing business internationally, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates. we are dependent on sales to customers outside the u.s. the percentage of our total revenue represented by revenue from products and services exported from the u.s., including foreign military sales, or manufactured or rendered abroad in fiscal 2017 , 2016 and 2015 was 22 percent , 20 percent and 29 percent , respectively. approximately 20 percent of our international business in fiscal 2017 was transacted in local currency. losses resulting from currency rate fluctuations can adversely affect our results. we expect that international revenue will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue. also, a significant portion of our international revenue is from, and a significant portion of our business activity is being conducted with or in, less-developed countries and sometimes countries with unstable governments, or in areas of military conflict or at military installations. we are subject to risks of doing business internationally, including: currency exchange controls, fluctuations of currency and currency revaluations; the laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments relating to investments and operations, as well as u.s. laws affecting the activities of u.s. companies abroad, including the foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ); import and export licensing requirements and regulations, as well as unforeseen changes in export controls and other trade regulations; changes in regulatory requirements, including business or operating license requirements, imposition of tariffs or embargoes; uncertainties and restrictions concerning the availability of funding, credit or guarantees; risk of non-payment or delayed payment by foreign governments; contractual obligations to non-u.s. customers may include specific in-country purchases, investments, manufacturing agreements or financial or other support arrangements or obligations, known as offset obligations, that may extend over several years, may require teaming with local companies and may result in significant penalties if not satisfied; the complexity and necessity of using, and disruptions involving our, international dealers, distributors, sales representatives and consultants; the difficulties of managing a geographically dispersed organization and culturally diverse workforces, including compliance with local laws and practices; difficulties associated with repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner and changes in tax laws; uncertainties as to local laws and enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights and occasional requirements for onerous contract terms; rapid changes in government, economic and political policies, political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of international boycotts or u.s. anti-boycott legislation; and increased risk of an incident resulting in damage or destruction to our facilities or products or resulting in injury or loss of life to our employees, subcontractors or other third parties. our reputation and ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of our employees, agents or business partners. we have implemented compliance controls, policies and procedures designed to prevent reckless or criminal acts from being committed by our employees, agents or business partners that would violate the laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including laws governing payments to government officials, such as the fcpa, and to detect any such reckless or criminal acts committed. we cannot ensure, however, that our controls, policies and procedures will prevent or detect all such reckless or criminal acts, and we have been adversely impacted by such acts in the past. if not prevented, such reckless or criminal acts could subject us to civil or criminal investigations, monetary and non-monetary penalties and suspension and debarment by the u.s. government and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct business, our results of 18 operations and our reputation. in addition, misconduct involving data security lapses resulting in the compromise of personal information or the improper use of our customer's sensitive or classified information could result in remediation costs, regulatory sanctions against us and serious harm to our reputation and could adversely impact our ability to continue to contract with the u.s. government. we may not be successful in obtaining the necessary export licenses to conduct certain operations abroad, and congress may prevent proposed sales to certain foreign governments. we must first obtain export and other licenses and authorizations from various u.s. government agencies before we are permitted to sell certain products and technologies outside of the u.s. for example, the u.s. department of state must notify congress at least 15 to 60 days, depending on the size and location of the proposed sale, prior to authorizing certain sales of defense equipment and services to foreign governments. during that time, congress may take action to block the proposed sale. we can give no assurance that we will continue to be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses or authorizations or that congress will not prevent or delay certain sales. any significant impairment of our ability to sell products or technologies outside of the u.s. could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our future success will depend on our ability to develop new products, systems, services and technologies that achieve market acceptance in our current and future markets. our businesses are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry standards. accordingly, our performance depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: identify emerging technological trends in our current and target markets; develop and maintain competitive products, systems, services and technologies; enhance our offerings by adding innovative hardware, software or other features that differentiate our products, systems, services and technologies from those of our competitors; and develop, manufacture and bring to market cost-effective offerings quickly. we believe that, in order to remain competitive in the future, we will need to continue to develop new products, systems, services and technologies, requiring the investment of significant financial resources. the need to make these expenditures could divert our attention and resources from other projects, and we cannot be sure that these expenditures ultimately will lead to the timely development of new products, systems, services or technologies. due to the design complexity of some of our products, systems, services and technologies, we may experience delays in completing development and introducing new products, systems, services or technologies in the future. any delays could result in increased costs of development or redirect resources from other projects. in addition, we cannot provide assurances that the markets for our products, systems, services or technologies will develop as we currently anticipate. the failure of our products, systems, services or technologies to gain market acceptance could significantly reduce our revenue and harm our business. furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing products, systems, services or technologies that gain market acceptance in advance of our products, systems, services or technologies, or that our competitors will not develop new products, systems, services or technologies that cause our existing products, systems, services or technologies to become non-competitive or obsolete, which could adversely affect our results of operations. the future direction of the domestic and global economies, including its impact on customer demand, also will have a significant impact on our overall performance. we participate in markets that are often subject to uncertain economic conditions, which makes it difficult to estimate growth in our markets and, as a result, future income and expenditures. we participate in u.s. and international markets that are subject to uncertain economic conditions. in particular, u.s. government spending priorities and levels remain uncertain and difficult to predict and are affected by numerous factors, including sequestration and potential alternative funding arrangements. in addition, certain of our non-u.s. customers, including in the middle east and other oil or natural-gas producing countries, could be adversely affected by weakness or volatility in oil or natural gas prices, or negative expectations about future prices or volatility, which could adversely affect demand for tactical communications or other products. as a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth in the markets in which we participate. because all components of our budgeting and forecasting are dependent on estimates of growth in the markets we serve, the uncertainty renders estimates of or guidance relating to future revenue, income and expenditures even more difficult. as a result, we may make significant investments and expenditures but never realize the anticipated benefits. we cannot predict the consequences of future geo-political events, but they may adversely affect the markets in which we operate, our ability to insure against risks, our operations or our profitability. ongoing instability and current conflicts in global markets, including in the middle east and asia, and the potential for other conflicts and future terrorist activities and other recent geo-political events throughout the world, including the pending voluntary exit of the united kingdom from the european union (commonly referred to as brexit ), have created economic and political uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and profitability. these matters cause uncertainty in the world's financial and insurance markets and may significantly increase the political, economic and 19 social instability in the geographic areas in which we operate. these matters may cause us to incur increased costs or experience difficulty with future borrowings under our commercial paper program or credit facilities or in the debt markets, or otherwise with financing our operating, investing (including any future acquisitions) or financing activities. these matters also may cause our insurance coverages and performance bonds to increase in cost, or in some cases, to be unavailable altogether. we have made, and may continue to make, strategic acquisitions and divestitures that involve significant risks and uncertainties. strategic acquisitions and divestitures that we have made in the past, and may continue to make, present significant risks and uncertainties, which include: difficulty in identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions, including the risk that our due diligence does not identify or fully assess valuation issues, potential liabilities or other acquisition risks; difficulty and expense in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations, including combining product and service offerings, and in entering into new markets in which we are not experienced, in an efficient and cost-effective manner while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures, and the risk that we encounter significant unanticipated costs or other problems associated with integration; difficulty and expense in consolidating and rationalizing it infrastructure, which may include multiple legacy systems from various acquisitions and integrating software code; challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits expected from acquisitions; risk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the strategic acquisitions and divestitures do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; risk that we assume significant liabilities that exceed the limitations of any applicable indemnification provisions or the financial resources of any indemnifying parties; risk that indemnification related to divested businesses that we may be required to provide to acquirers of such businesses or that applicable purchase price adjustments related to such divestitures may be significant and could negatively impact our business; risk that we are not able to complete strategic divestitures on satisfactory terms and conditions, including non-competition arrangements applicable to certain of our business lines, or within expected timeframes; potential loss of key employees or customers of the businesses acquired or to be divested; and risk of diverting the attention of senior management from our existing operations. disputes with our subcontractors and the inability of our subcontractors to perform, or our key suppliers to timely deliver our components, parts or services, could cause our products or services to be produced or delivered in an untimely or unsatisfactory manner. we engage subcontractors on many of our contracts. we may have disputes with our subcontractors, including regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor, customer concerns about the subcontract or subcontractor, our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders under a subcontract, our hiring of the personnel of a subcontractor or vice versa or the subcontractor's failure to comply with applicable law. in addition, there are certain parts, components and services for many of our products and services that we source from other manufacturers or vendors. some of our suppliers, from time to time, experience financial and operational difficulties, which may impact their ability to supply the materials, components, subsystems and services that we require. our supply chain could also be disrupted by external events, such as natural disasters or other significant disruptions (including extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics, acts of terrorism, cyber attacks and labor disputes), governmental actions and legislative or regulatory changes, including product certification or stewardship requirements, sourcing restrictions, product authenticity and climate change or greenhouse gas emission standards. any inability to develop alternative sources of supply on a cost-effective and timely basis could materially impair our ability to manufacture and deliver products and services to our customers. we can give no assurances that we will be free from disputes with our subcontractors, material supply problems or component, subsystems or services problems in the future. also, our subcontractors and other suppliers may not be able to acquire or maintain the quality of the materials, components, subsystems and services they supply, which might result in greater product returns, service problems and warranty claims and could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, in connection with our government contracts, we are required to procure certain materials, components and parts from supply sources approved by the u.s. government and we rely on our subcontractors and suppliers to comply with applicable laws, regulations and other requirements regarding procurement of counterfeit, unauthorized or otherwise non-compliant parts or materials, including parts or materials they supply to us, and in some circumstances, we rely on their certifications as to their compliance. from time to time, there are components for which there may be only one supplier. the inability of a sole source supplier to meet our needs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 20 third parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their intellectual property rights, and third parties may infringe upon our intellectual property rights. many of the markets we serve are characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights, which often has resulted in protracted and expensive litigation. third parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing or to have infringed directly or indirectly upon those intellectual property rights. claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. moreover, we may not be able to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us, or at all. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain of our products, services and solutions. our success depends in large part on our proprietary technology. we rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, know-how, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. if we fail to successfully protect and enforce these rights, our competitive position could suffer. our pending patent and trademark registration applications may not be allowed, or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents or trademark registrations. in addition, our patents may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and police our intellectual property rights. we may not be able to detect infringement and our competitive position may be harmed before we do so. in addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. the outcome of litigation or arbitration in which we are involved from time to time is unpredictable and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. from time to time, we are defendants in a number of litigation matters and are involved in a number of arbitrations. these actions may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. no assurances can be given that the results of these or new matters will be favorable to us. an adverse resolution of lawsuits or arbitrations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we face certain significant risk exposures and potential liabilities that may not be covered adequately by insurance or indemnity. we are exposed to liabilities that are unique to the products and services we provide. a significant portion of our business relates to designing, developing and manufacturing advanced defense, technology and communications systems and products. new technologies associated with these systems and products may be untested or unproven. components of certain of the defense systems and products we develop are inherently dangerous. failures of satellites, missile systems, air traffic control systems, electronic warfare systems, space superiority systems, c4isr systems, homeland security applications and aircraft have the potential to cause loss of life and extensive property damage. other examples of unforeseen problems that could result, either directly or indirectly, in the loss of life or property or otherwise negatively affect revenue and profitability include loss on launch of spacecraft, premature failure of products that cannot be accessed for repair or replacement, problems with quality and workmanship, country of origin, delivery of subcontractor components or services and unplanned degradation of product performance. in addition, problems and delays in development or delivery as a result of issues with respect to design, technology, licensing and patent rights, labor, learning curve assumptions or materials and components could prevent us from achieving contractual requirements. in many circumstances, we may receive indemnification from the u.s. government. we generally do not receive indemnification from foreign governments. although we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, and we may be forced to bear substantial costs from an accident or incident. it also is not possible for us to obtain insurance to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. substantial claims resulting from an incident in excess of u.s. government indemnity and our insurance coverage would harm our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. other factors that may affect revenue and profits include loss of follow-on work, and, in the case of certain contracts, liquidated damages, penalties and repayment to the customer of contract cost and fee payments we previously received. moreover, any accident or incident for which we are liable, even if fully insured, could negatively affect our standing with our customers and the public, thereby making it more difficult for us to compete effectively, and could significantly impact the cost and availability of adequate insurance in the future. changes in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. our future effective tax rate may be adversely affected by a number of factors including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not fully deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process r&amp;d and impairment of goodwill or other long-term assets in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation expense; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; changes in domestic or international tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws; and 21 the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact our results of operations for future periods. our level of indebtedness and our ability to make payments on or service our indebtedness and our unfunded defined benefit plans liability may adversely affect our financial and operating activities or our ability to incur additional debt. at the end of fiscal 2017 , we had $3.9 billion in aggregate principal amount of outstanding debt and approximately $1.3 billion of unfunded defined benefit plans liability. in the future we may increase our borrowings; however, our ability to do so will be subject to limitations imposed on us by our debt agreements. our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness as well as any future debt that we may incur and our ability to make contributions to our unfunded defined benefit plans liability, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future from operations, financings or asset sales. our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. if we are not able to repay or refinance our debt as it becomes due or make contributions to our unfunded defined benefit plans liability, we may be forced to sell assets or take other disadvantageous actions, including reducing financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes; reducing our cash dividend rate and/or share repurchases; or dedicating an unsustainable level of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness. in addition, our ability to withstand competitive pressures and to react to changes in the defense technology industry could be impaired. the lenders who hold such debt could also accelerate amounts due, which could potentially trigger a default or acceleration of any of our other debt. a downgrade in our credit ratings could materially adversely affect our business. the credit ratings assigned to our debt securities could change based on, among other things, our results of operations, financial condition, mergers, acquisitions or dispositions. these ratings are subject to ongoing evaluation by credit rating agencies, and there can be no assurance that any rating will not be changed or withdrawn by a rating agency in the future. moreover, these credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold any of our debt securities. actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under review for a downgrade or have been assigned a negative outlook, would likely increase our borrowing costs and affect our ability to incur new indebtedness or refinance our existing indebtedness, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and the market value of our common stock and outstanding debt securities. unforeseen environmental issues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operations are subject to and affected by many federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. in addition, we could be affected by future environmental laws or regulations, including, for example, new restrictions on materials used in our operations. compliance with current and future environmental laws and regulations may require significant operating and capital costs. environmental laws and regulations may authorize substantial fines and criminal sanctions as well as facility shutdowns to address violations, and may require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit emissions or discharges. we also incur, and expect to continue to incur, costs to comply with current environmental laws and regulations related to remediation of conditions in the environment. in addition, if violations of environmental laws result in our, or in one or more of our operations, being identified as an excluded party in the u.s. government's system for award management, then we or one or more of our operations would become ineligible to receive certain contracts, subcontracts and other benefits from the federal government or to perform work under a government contract or subcontract. generally, such ineligibility would continue until the basis for the listing has been appropriately addressed. developments such as the adoption of new environmental laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, violations by us of such laws and regulations, discovery of previously unknown or more extensive contamination, litigation involving environmental impacts, our inability to recover costs associated with any such developments under previously priced contracts, or financial insolvency of other responsible parties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we have significant operations in locations that could be materially and adversely impacted in the event of a natural disaster or other significant disruption. our corporate headquarters and significant business operations are located in florida, which is subject to the risk of major hurricanes. our worldwide operations and operations of our suppliers could be subject to natural disasters or other significant disruptions, including hurricanes, typhoons, tsunamis, floods, earthquakes, fires, water shortages, other extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics, acts of terrorism, power shortages and blackouts, telecommunications failures, cyber attacks and other natural and manmade disasters or disruptions. in the event of such a natural disaster or other disruption, we could experience disruptions or interruptions to our operations or the operations of our suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers 22 or customers; destruction of facilities; and/or loss of life, all of which could materially increase our costs and expenses and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. changes in future business or other market conditions could cause business investments and/or recorded goodwill or other long-term assets to become impaired, resulting in substantial losses and write-downs that would adversely affect our results of operations. as part of our overall strategy, we will, from time to time, acquire a minority or majority interest in a business. these investments are made upon careful analysis and due diligence procedures designed to achieve a desired return or strategic objective. these procedures often involve certain assumptions and judgment in determining acquisition price. after acquisition, such assumptions and judgment may prove to have been inaccurate and unforeseen issues could arise, which could adversely affect the anticipated returns or which are otherwise not recoverable as an adjustment to the purchase price. even after careful integration efforts, actual operating results may vary significantly from initial estimates. goodwill accounted for approximately 53 percent of our recorded total assets as of june 30, 2017 . we evaluate the recoverability of recorded goodwill annually, as well as when we change reporting units and when events or circumstances indicate there may be an impairment. the impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. principally, a decrease in expected reporting unit cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill. because of the significance of our goodwill and other intangible assets, any future impairment of these assets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. for additional information on accounting policies we have in place for impairment of goodwill, see our discussion under critical accounting policies and estimates in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report and note 1: significant accounting policies and note 8: goodwill in the notes. some of our workforce is represented by labor unions, so our business could be harmed in the event of a prolonged work stoppage. approximately 600 of our u.s. employees are unionized, which represented approximately 4 percent of our employee-base at the end of fiscal 2017 . as a result, we may experience work stoppages, which could adversely affect our business. we cannot predict how stable our union relationships will be or whether we will be able to successfully negotiate successor collective bargaining agreements without impacting our financial condition. in addition, the presence of unions may limit our flexibility in dealing with our workforce. work stoppages could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we must attract and retain key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. our business has a continuing need to attract and retain significant numbers of skilled personnel, including personnel holding security clearances, to support our growth and to replace individuals whose employment has terminated due to retirement or other reasons. to the extent that the demand for qualified personnel exceeds supply, as has been the case from time to time in recent years, we could experience higher labor, recruiting or training costs in order to attract and retain such employees, or could experience difficulties in performing under our contracts if our needs for such employees were unmet. risks relating to the spin-off of vectrus completed by exelis on september 27, 2014, before being acquired by harris, exelis completed the spin-off of vectrus, inc. ( vectrus ). after the spin-off, exelis and vectrus operated independently of each other and neither company had an ownership interest in the other. prior to the completion of the spin-off, exelis and vectrus entered into a distribution agreement and related separation agreements that provided mechanisms for an orderly separation and govern the post-separation relationship between exelis and vectrus. these agreements generally provide that each party is responsible for its respective assets, liabilities and obligations following the spin-off, including employee benefits, intellectual property, it, insurance and tax-related assets and liabilities. the agreements also set forth exelis' obligation to provide vectrus with certain temporary transition services. the agreements include the distribution agreement, employee matters agreement, tax matters agreement, transition services agreement and several intellectual property agreements. the following are among the risks we face in connection with the spin-off of vectrus completed by exelis: we may be responsible for u.s. federal income tax liabilities that relate to the spin-off of vectrus completed by exelis. in connection with the spin-off of vectrus, completed by exelis prior to our acquisition of exelis, exelis received an opinion of tax counsel substantially to the effect that, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the spin-off will qualify for tax-free treatment under section 355 of the internal revenue code. however, if the factual assumptions or representations made in the opinion are inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, including those relating to the past and future conduct of our business, we will not be able to rely on the opinion. furthermore, the opinion is not binding on the internal revenue service ( irs ) or the courts. accordingly, the irs or the courts may challenge the conclusions stated in the opinion and such challenge could prevail. if, notwithstanding receipt of the opinion, the spin-off is determined to be taxable, we would be subject to a substantial tax liability. in addition, if the spin-off transaction is taxable, each holder of exelis common stock who received 23 shares of vectrus in the spin-off would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares received, thereby potentially increasing such holder's tax liability. even if the vectrus spin-off otherwise qualifies as a tax-free transaction, the distribution could be taxable to us (but not to holders of exelis common stock who received shares of vectrus in the spin-off) in certain circumstances if subsequent significant acquisitions of exelis stock or the stock of vectrus were deemed to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the vectrus spin-off. in this event, the resulting tax liability could be substantial. in connection with the vectrus spin-off, vectrus indemnified exelis for certain liabilities and exelis indemnified vectrus for certain liabilities. this indemnity may not be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of the liabilities assumed by vectrus and vectrus may be unable to satisfy its indemnification obligations to us in the future. as part of the distribution agreement, exelis and vectrus indemnified each other with respect to such parties' assumed or retained liabilities pursuant to the distribution agreement and breaches of the distribution agreement or related separation agreements. there can be no assurance that the indemnity from vectrus will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of these and other liabilities, or that vectrus will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. third parties also could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that vectrus has agreed to assume. even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from vectrus any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear those losses ourselves. in addition, performance on indemnities that exelis provided vectrus may be significant and could negatively impact our business. each of these risks could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the vectrus spin-off may expose us to potential liabilities arising out of state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws and legal distribution requirements. the vectrus spin-off could be challenged under various u.s. state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws. an unpaid creditor or an entity vested with the power of such creditor (such as a trustee or debtor-in-possession in a bankruptcy) could claim that exelis did not receive fair consideration or reasonably equivalent value in the spin-off, and that the spin-off left exelis insolvent or with unreasonably small capital or that exelis intended or believed it would incur debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they mature. if a court were to agree with such a plaintiff, then such court could void the spin-off as a fraudulent transfer and could impose a number of different remedies, including, without limitation, returning assets or vectrus shares to exelis or providing exelis with a claim for money damages against vectrus in an amount equal to the difference between the consideration received by exelis and the fair market value of vectrus at the time of the spin-off. the measure of insolvency for purposes of fraudulent conveyance laws may vary depending on which jurisdiction's law is applied. generally, however, an entity would be considered insolvent if the fair saleable value of its assets is less than the amount of its liabilities (including the probable amount of contingent liabilities), and such entity would be considered to have unreasonably small capital if it lacked adequate capital to conduct its business in the ordinary course and pay its liabilities as they become due. no assurance can be given as to what standard a court would apply to determine insolvency or that a court would determine that exelis was solvent at the time of or after giving effect to the spin-off, including the distribution of vectrus common stock. the distribution by exelis of the vectrus common stock in the spin-off also could be challenged under state corporate distribution statutes. under the indiana business corporation law, a corporation may not make distributions to its shareholders if, after giving effect to the distribution, (i) the corporation would not be able to pay its debts as they become due in the usual course of business; or (ii) the corporation's total assets would be less than the sum of its total liabilities. no assurance can be given that a court will not later determine that the distribution by exelis of vectrus common stock in the spin-off was unlawful. each of these risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. risks relating to the spin-off of exelis from itt corporation in 2011, itt corporation ( itt ) completed a transaction resulting in the spin-off of exelis and xylem, inc. ( xylem ). after the spin-off, exelis, itt and xylem operated independently of each other and none of the companies had any ownership interest in the other. in order to govern certain ongoing relationships between exelis, itt and xylem following the spin-off and to provide mechanisms for an orderly transition, exelis, itt and xylem executed various agreements that govern the ongoing relationships between and among the three companies after the spin-off and provide for the allocation of employee benefits, income taxes, and certain other liabilities and obligations attributable to periods prior to the spin-off. the executed agreements include the distribution agreement, benefits and compensation matters agreement, tax matters agreement, several real estate matters agreements and master transition services agreement. the distribution agreement provides for certain indemnifications and cross-indemnifications among exelis, itt and xylem. the indemnifications address a variety of subjects, including indemnification by itt of exelis in respect of certain asserted and unasserted asbestos or silica liability claims. these indemnifications include claims relating to the presence or alleged presence of asbestos or silica in products manufactured, repaired or sold prior to the distribution date, subject to limited exceptions with respect to certain employee claims. these indemnifications also include claims relating to the presence or 24 alleged presence of asbestos or silica in the structure or material of any building or facility, subject to exceptions with respect to employee claims relating to exelis or xylem buildings or facilities. the indemnifications are absolute and indefinite. the indemnification associated with pending and future asbestos and silica claims does not expire. there can be no assurance, however, that itt will be able to satisfy its indemnification obligations. the tax matters agreement governs the respective rights, responsibilities and obligations of exelis, itt and xylem after the spin-off with respect to tax liabilities and benefits, tax attributes, tax contests and other tax sharing regarding u.s. federal, state, local and foreign income taxes, other tax matters and related tax returns. exelis has joint and several liability with itt and xylem to the irs for the consolidated u.s. federal income taxes of the itt consolidated group relating to the taxable periods in which exelis was part of that group. however, the tax matters agreement specifies the portion, if any, of this liability for which exelis bears responsibility, and itt and xylem agree to indemnify exelis against any amounts for which exelis is not responsible. though valid as between the parties, the tax matters agreement is not binding on the irs. the following are among the risks we face in connection with exelis' spin-off from itt: the itt spin-off of exelis may expose us to potential liabilities arising out of state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws and legal distribution requirements. exelis' spin-off from itt could be challenged under various u.s. state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws. an unpaid creditor or an entity vested with the power of such creditor (such as a trustee or debtor-in-possession in a bankruptcy) could claim that the itt spin-off left exelis, itt and/or xylem insolvent or with unreasonably small capital, or that exelis, itt and/or xylem intended or believed it would incur debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they mature and that itt did not receive fair consideration or reasonably equivalent value in the itt spin-off. if a court were to agree with such a plaintiff, then such court could void the itt spin-off as a fraudulent transfer and could impose a number of different remedies, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if we are required to indemnify itt or xylem in connection with the itt spin-off of exelis, we may need to divert cash to meet those obligations and our financial results could be negatively impacted. pursuant to the distribution agreement entered into in connection with the itt spin-off and certain other agreements among exelis, itt and xylem, itt and xylem agreed to indemnify exelis from certain liabilities, and exelis agreed to indemnify itt and xylem for certain liabilities as discussed further above. indemnities that we may be required to provide itt and xylem may be significant and could negatively impact our business. further, there can be no assurance that the indemnity from itt and xylem will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that itt or xylem will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. each of these risks could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 57 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, we are exposed to the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rates and changes in interest rates. we employ established policies and procedures governing the use of financial instruments to manage our exposure to such risks. for a discussion of such policies and procedures and the related risks, see financial risk management in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report, which is incorporated by reference into this item 7a. in addition, we are exposed to market return fluctuations on our defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement defined benefit plans. a material adverse decline in the value of these assets and/or the discount rate for projected benefit obligations would result in a decrease in the funded status of the defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement defined benefit plans, an increase in net periodic benefit cost and an increase in required funding. to protect against declines in the discount rate (i.e., interest rates), we will continue to monitor the performance of these assets and market conditions as we evaluate the amount of future contributions. for further information, see note 14: pension and other postretirement benefits in the notes, which information is incorporated by reference into this item 7a. 57risk factors 13 risk factors of this report. all forward-looking statements are qualified by, and should be read in conjunction with, those risk factors. forward-looking statements are made in reliance on the safe harbor provisions of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended (the securities act ), and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the exchange act ), and are made as of the date of filing of this report, and we disclaim any intention or obligation, other than imposed by law, to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or developments or otherwise, after the date of filing of this report or, in the case of any document incorporated by reference, the date of that document. amounts contained in this report may not always add to totals due to rounding. part i item 1. business. harris harris corporation, together with its subsidiaries, is a leading technology innovator, solving customers' toughest mission-critical challenges by providing solutions that connect, inform and protect. we support government and commercial customers in more than 100 countries, with our largest customers being various departments and agencies of the u.s. government and their prime contractors. our products, systems and services have defense and civil government applications, as well as commercial applications. as of the end of fiscal 2018 , we had approximately 17,500 employees, including approximately 7,900 engineers and scientists. harris corporation was incorporated in delaware in 1926 as the successor to three companies founded in the 1890s. our principal executive offices are located at 1025 west nasa boulevard, melbourne, florida 32919, and our telephone number is (321) 727-9100. our common stock is listed on the new york stock exchange ( nyse ) under the symbol hrs. unless the context otherwise requires, the terms we, our, us, company and harris as used in this report refer to harris corporation and its subsidiaries. general we structure our operations primarily around the products, systems and services we sell and the markets we serve, and we report the financial results of our continuing operations in the following three reportable segments, which are also referred to as our business segments: communication systems, serving markets in tactical communications and defense products, including tactical ground and airborne radio communications solutions and night vision technology, and in public safety networks; electronic systems, providing electronic warfare, avionics, and command, control, communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance ( c4isr ) solutions for defense and classified customers and mission-critical communication systems for civil and military aviation and other customers; and space and intelligence systems, providing intelligence, space protection, geospatial, complete earth observation, universe exploration, positioning, navigation and timing ( pnt ), and environmental solutions for national security, defense, civil and commercial customers, using advanced sensors, antennas and payloads, as well as ground processing and information analytics. 1 financial information about our business segments financial information with respect to our business segments, including revenue, operating income and total assets, and with respect to our operations outside the united states, is contained in note 22: business segments in the notes to consolidated financial statements in this report (the notes ) and is incorporated herein by reference. recent divestitures the following paragraphs summarize recent divestitures. for additional information related to divestitures, some of which were reported as discontinued operations, see note 3: discontinued operations and divestitures in the notes. our historical financial results for all periods presented in this report have been restated to account for businesses reported as discontinued operations in this report. except for disclosures related to our cash flows, or unless otherwise specified, disclosures in this report relate solely to our continuing operations. divestiture of government it services business. on april 28, 2017, we completed the divestiture to an affiliate of veritas capital management, l.l.c. ( veritas ) of our government information technology ( it ) services business ( it services ), which primarily provided it and engineering managed services to u.s. government customers, for net cash proceeds of $646 million, after transaction expenses and purchase price adjustments in respect of net cash and working capital as set forth in the definitive sale agreement. the decision to divest it services was part of our strategy to simplify our operating model to focus on technology-differentiated, high-margin businesses. it services was part of our former critical networks segment and is reported as discontinued operations in this report. in connection with entering into the definitive agreement to sell it services, as described above, our other remaining operations that had been part of our former critical networks segment, including our air traffic management business, primarily serving the federal aviation administration ( faa ), and our pacific missile range facility ( pmrf ) program, were integrated with our electronic systems segment effective for the third quarter of fiscal 2017, and our critical networks segment was eliminated. divestiture of harris caprock communications commercial business. on january 1, 2017, we completed the divestiture to speedcast international ltd. ( speedcast ) of our harris caprock communications commercial business ( caprock ), which provided wireless, terrestrial and satellite communications services to energy and maritime customers, for net cash proceeds of $368 million , after transaction expenses and purchase price adjustments in respect of net cash and working capital as set forth in the definitive sale agreement. the decision to divest caprock was part of our strategy to simplify our operating model to focus on technology-differentiated, high-margin businesses. caprock was part of our former critical networks segment and is reported as discontinued operations in this report. divestiture of composite aerostructures business. on april 8, 2016, we completed the divestiture of our composite aerostructures business ( aerostructures ), which designed and manufactured technically advanced, lightweight composite aerospace assembly structures, sub-assemblies and components for defense and commercial industries. aerostructures was not strategic to our business and was part of our company as a result of our acquisition of publicly-held exelis, inc. (collectively with its subsidiaries, exelis ) in may 2015. the operating results of aerostructures through the date of divestiture are reported as part of our electronic systems segment. divestiture of broadcast communications business. in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, our board of directors approved a plan to divest our broadcast communications business ( broadcast communications ), which provided digital media management solutions in support of broadcast customers, pursuant to which broadcast communications was reported as discontinued operations. in the third quarter of fiscal 2013, we completed the sale of broadcast communications to an affiliate of the gores group, llc ( gores ). in the third quarter of fiscal 2016, a nationally recognized accounting firm previously appointed by us and gores rendered its final determination as to a dispute between us and gores over the amount of the post-closing working capital adjustment to the purchase price, and consequently, we recorded the related activity in discontinued operations for fiscal 2016. description of business by segment communication systems communication systems serves markets in tactical communications and defense products, including tactical ground and airborne radio communications solutions and night vision technology, and in public safety networks. tactical communications: we are a leading global supplier of secure radio communications, tactical communication networks and embedded high-grade encryption solutions for a diverse portfolio of u.s. military and allied international forces and commercial customers. we design, develop and manufacture a comprehensive line of current and next-generation secure and protected radio communications products and systems, with capabilities to operate across numerous radio frequency bands and using an extensive range of waveforms. our radio systems are highly flexible, interoperable and capable of supporting diverse mission requirements. our tactical radios are built on software-defined radio platforms that include headroom to add future capabilities through software upgrades and that also have the highest grade embedded encryption. product capabilities include secure transmission of voice, high-speed data and full-motion video, including streaming video to the tactical edge of 2 the battlefield. supporting virtually all military domains, our products include handheld, manpack and vehicular, fixed-site and airborne form factors. together, our products create a highly mobile, secure, reliable networked battlefield environment that connects land, air and sea echelons and does not rely on a fixed infrastructure. this networking capability allows warfighters, for example, to remain connected to each other and their command structures and support organizations and to communicate information and maintain situational awareness of both friendly and opposing forces, which are critical to mission safety and success. our radio systems have been widely deployed throughout all branches of the u.s. department of defense ( dod ) and have been sold to more than 100 countries through our international distribution channels, consisting of regional sales offices and a broad dealer network, becoming the standard in many of those countries. our next-generation radios include multiband, multi-channel, multi-mission, legacy-system compatible tactical radios that address the full range of current mission and interoperability requirements and are fully upgradeable to address future technical standards and mission requirements. advances in these radios include the support of wideband networking waveforms, extended frequency range and significant reductions in size, weight and power compared with previous generations. wideband networking capability enables enhanced situational awareness through high-bandwidth applications such as streaming video, simultaneous voice and data feeds, collaborative chat and connectivity to secure networks. our comprehensive line of current and next-generation radios includes the following: our widely deployed single channel ground and airborne radio system ( sincgars ) family of backpack, vehicle-mounted, handheld and airborne radios currently used by u.s. and allied military forces these combat net radios, over 600,000 of which have been purchased and deployed worldwide, operate in the very high frequency ( vhf ) band, have single-frequency and frequency-hopping modes, handle voice and data communications and are designed to be reliable, secure and easily maintained. our multiband manpack radio, the an/prc-117g, which is national security agency ( nsa ) type-1-certified for narrowband communications, as well as for wideband communications using our harris-developed adaptive networking wideband waveform and the u.s. military joint tactical radio system ( jtrs ) soldier radio waveform and mobile user objective system ( muos ) waveform, which provides connectivity to dod's next-generation muos satellite system; our multiband handheld radios, the an/prc-152, which is a widely fielded jtrs-approved software-defined handheld radio, and the an/prc-152a, which adds wideband, networked communications capability and supports both a full range of narrowband legacy waveforms and wideband networking waveforms in a handheld platform; our multi-channel manpack radio, the an/prc-158, which is a commercially developed, nsa type-1-certified radio offering two channels integrated into the same chassis; our wideband rifleman team radio, the rf-330e, which is the commercially developed u.s. variant of our widely fielded international soldier personal radio; our wideband ground radio family for international customers, the rf-7850x, which covers all echelons of the battlefield with soldier handheld, vehicular and fixed-site radio products; our wideband high frequency ( hf ) manpack radios, the nsa type-1-certified rf-300h for the u.s. military and the rf-7800h for international customers, which are wideband-capable tactical hf radios that are smaller, lighter and deliver data faster than prior generations of hf radios and can serve as an alternative for beyond-line-of-sight transmission of classified images, maps and other large data files in circumstances where satellite communication ( satcom ) is denied; our single-channel airborne radios, which include the nsa type-1-certified rf-300m-dl small secure data link multiband radio for integration in size, weight and power-constrained environments, as well as the arc-201d and arc-201e radios for dod and international vhf network interoperability; and our multi-channel airborne radios, which include the rf-7850a for interoperability with our rf-7800 family of international ground radios, as well as a 2-channel airborne radio platform we provide to viasat, inc. to be built into the kor-24a multi-channel, link-16 small tactical terminal. we operate in this market principally on a commercial market-driven business model. we leverage our deep customer relationships to anticipate market needs and then invest our internal research and development resources, build to our internal forecast and provide ready-to-ship, commercial off-the-shelf ( cots ) products to customers. this enables us to adapt to changing customer requirements, innovate and drive differentiation and bring products to market faster. we believe that the need to connect disparate networks using internet protocol ( ip )-based technology is driving a modernization cycle in the u.s. and internationally. we believe our business model, which drives speed and innovation, coupled with the scale provided by our international presence, will continue to make us competitive in the global market. we have been investing to position ourselves for tactical radio modernization opportunities, including in our next-generation manpack and handheld solutions for the jtrs handheld, manpack and small form fit ( hms ) program and u.s. special operations command ( socom ) special operations forces tactical communications ( stc ) programs, and for opportunities in manned and unmanned airborne applications from demand for extending ground tactical networks to the air. 3 examples of significant recent contract awards for us include the following: a 5-year, single-award indefinite delivery indefinite quantity ( idiq ) contract from the u.s. navy in fiscal 2018 for hf and multiband handheld and manpack radio systems and accessories; a 5-year, sole source idiq contract from the u.s. air force in fiscal 2018 to develop and deliver handheld video data-link ( hh-vdl ) radios; a 5-year, single-award contract from the australian defence forces in fiscal 2018 for integrated network modernization; a 6-year, single-award idiq contract from socom in fiscal 2017 to supply next-generation multi-channel multiband manpack radios to enable superior communications for u.s. special operations forces; a 5-year, single-award idiq contract from the u.s. defense logistics agency in fiscal 2017 to provide tactical radio spare parts to the u.s. army and federal civilian agencies; a 10-year (5-year base, one 5-year option), multi-award idiq contract from the u.s. air force in fiscal 2017 for cryptographic and information assurance products; a 10-year (5-year base, one 5-year option), multi-award idiq contract from the u.s. army in fiscal 2016 for multi-channel manpack radios under the hms program; a 6-year, single-award idiq contract from socom in fiscal 2016 for a new integrated 2-channel handheld tactical radio; a 5-year, single-award follow-on foreign military sales idiq contract from the u.s. army communications-electronics command ( cecom ) in fiscal 2016 to supply secure tactical communication solutions; a 5-year, single-award foreign military sales idiq contract from cecom in fiscal 2016 to supply sincgars tactical solutions; and a 10-year (5-year base, one 5-year option), multi-award idiq contract from the u.s. army in fiscal 2015 for rifleman radios and associated services under the hms program. night vision: we are a global supplier of high-performance, vision-enhancing products for u.s. and allied military and security forces and commercial customers. we design, develop and manufacture generation 3 image intensification technology products, including: our an/pvs-14 and an/pvs-7 ground night vision goggles and spare image intensifier tubes; our an/avs-6 and an/avs-9 aviation night vision goggles, which provide rotary- and fixed-wing aircraft pilots the ability to operate in extreme low-light situations; our enhanced night vision goggles ( envg ), spiral envg and tactical mobility night vision goggles that use our sensor fusion technology to overlay image intensification imagery with thermal imagery, which enables users to effectively operate in extreme low-light and obscured battlefield conditions; and our soldier system platform, which combines night vision, augmented reality, live video and broadcast capabilities into one system, enabling enhanced soldier situational awareness and connection to the battlefield network. public safety and professional communications: we are a global supplier of critical communication solutions offering current and next-generation public safety radios, mission-critical networks and lte-ready devices and applications for federal, state and local public safety, utility, commercial and transportation organizations. we design, build, supply and maintain wireless communications systems, including digital trunked, statewide, multi-agency systems for public safety communications and large, wide-area and multi-state land mobile radio ( lmr ) and rf systems for some of the largest utility companies in the u.s. our voice, interoperability, data and access ( vida ) network platform is a unified ip-based voice and data communication system that provides network-level interoperable communications among public safety agencies by supporting a full line of communication systems, including association of public safety communications officials - international p25 ( p25 ) industry-wide open standard technology. our vida network solutions currently serve as the backbone in some of the largest and most advanced statewide and regional communication networks in north america. we also are investing in next-generation, secure public safety-grade long term evolution ( lte ) solutions for voice, video and data applications. we offer a full range of single-band lmr terminals, as well as multiband radios that include a handheld radio and a full-spectrum mobile radio for vehicles. our multiband, multi-mode radios cover all public safety frequency bands in a single radio that is able to communicate across multiple organizations, jurisdictions and agencies operating on different frequencies and systems. our multiband radios operate on p25 conventional and trunked systems and have a software-defined radio architecture that allows flexibility for future growth, including upgrading to p25 phase 2, the next-generation standard for mission-critical communications. these radios also include advanced capabilities, such as an internal global positioning system receiver for situational awareness, internal secure bluetooth wireless technology and background noise suppression features. our xl-200p multiband, handheld radio adds wifi, wifi hotspot and lte capabilities, as well as push-to-talk voice over ip in both wifi and lte, to p25/lmr capabilities and provides first responders the ability to communicate outside of their lmr coverage jurisdiction. 4 we also offer our symphony tm dispatch console system, which features a space-saving hardware platform and an advanced, customizable user interface to simplify workflow and enhance efficiencies. our beon secure group communications application is designed to enable emergency response teams and public safety users to connect seamlessly to the network backbone of many lmr systems from a smartphone, tablet or personal computer for p25 push-to-talk interoperability without the added expense of an additional lmr terminal. revenue, operating income and backlog: revenue for our communication systems segment in fiscal 2018 , 2017 and 2016 was $1,903 million , $1,753 million and $1,864 million , respectively. segment operating income in fiscal 2018 , 2017 and 2016 was $571 million , $524 million and $522 million , respectively. the percentage of our revenue contributed by this segment in fiscal 2018 , 2017 and 2016 was 31 percent , 30 percent and 31 percent , respectively. the percentage of this segment's revenue in fiscal 2018 that was derived outside of the u.s. was approximately 48 percent . the percentage of this segment's revenue in fiscal 2018 that was derived from sales to u.s. government customers, including foreign military sales funded through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, was approximately 48 percent . for a general description of our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, including a discussion of revenue generated thereunder and of cost-reimbursable versus fixed-price contracts, see item 1. business - principal customers; government contracts of this report. in general, this segment's domestic products and services are sold directly to customers through its sales organization and through established distribution channels. internationally, this segment markets and sells its products and services through regional sales offices and established distribution channels. for a general description of our international business, see item 1. business - international business of this report. the funded backlog for this segment at the end of fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016 was approximately $1.5 billion , $1.1 billion and $1.0 billion , respectively. additional information regarding funded backlog is provided under item 1. business - funded backlog of this report. for a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, see item 1. business - principal customers; government contracts, item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this report. electronic systems electronic systems provides electronic warfare, avionics and c4isr solutions for defense and classified customers and mission-critical communication systems for civil and military aviation and other customers. many of our electronic systems segment solutions include reliable, resilient and innovative cyber capabilities. we design, develop, produce and supply advanced electronic warfare solutions for airborne, maritime and ground applications to the u.s. military, classified customers and allied nations. our electronic warfare capabilities include threat identification for situational awareness; electronic countermeasures for self-protection, whether installed as part of the platform or offboard as decoys and expendables; electronic attack; and counter-improvised explosive devices ( ieds ). we have provided electronic warfare solutions for strategic and tactical fixed-wing and rotary aircraft such as the f/a-18e/f super hornet ( f/a-18 ), f-16, b1-b, b-52, mc-130h, ac-130u, mh-60, mh-47 and cv-22 aircraft, as well as maritime electronic support measures ( esm ) for surface and subsurface vessels. in addition, we provide high-performance radar systems for defense and air traffic management ( atm ) surveillance and precision approach radar. examples of our electronic warfare technology include: airborne our advanced integrated defense electronic warfare systems ( aidews ) that provide integrated and podded self-protection and jamming; our integrated defensive electronic countermeasures ( idecm ) system for the f/a 18; maritime our minesweeping systems and mine countermeasures that detect and neutralize subsurface threats; our transducer arrays that are used in sonar and acoustic systems to support navigation and situational awareness as well as anti-submarine and torpedo self-defense; ground our counter-radio controlled ied technology that protects ground forces in asymmetrical combat environments by continually scanning for threatening radio frequency signals and denying enemy use of those portions of the electromagnetic spectrum, without disrupting friendly signals and keeping lines of communication open; our land-based surveillance radar that provides three-dimensional radar capability for airborne defensive surveillance for the u.s. navy; and our state-of-the-art wireless voice and data products and solutions. we have decades of experience designing, testing and integrating advanced avionics equipment, electronics and software, including cockpit communications, digital maps, processors, sensors, data buses, fiber optics, microelectronics and conformal 5 wideband antennas. we are a supplier of avionics systems and products on a variety of aircraft platforms, including the f-35 lightning ii ( f-35 ) and the f/a-18. for f-35 and f/a-18 aircraft, we provide high-performance, advanced avionics such as high-speed fiber optic networking and switching, image processing, digital map software and other electronic components, including multifunction advanced data link communication subsystems primarily intended for stealth platform air-to-air communications with other network nodes without revealing positions. our advanced antenna technologies provide communication, navigation, direction-finding and electronic warfare capabilities for military aircraft. we design and produce aircraft carriage and release equipment and weapons interface systems for fighter jets, surveillance aircraft and unmanned aerial vehicles for u.s. and allied military forces. our carriage and release technology, including current pyrotechnic and next-generation pneumatic and electronically actuated release systems, allow aircraft to successfully deliver mission payloads and support a variety of aircraft stores, including weapons, sonobuoys, electronics pods, fuel tanks and unmanned vehicles. our racks and launchers are components on aircraft including the f-35, f-22 raptor, f/a-18, f-15e strike eagle, f-16 fighting falcon, p-8a poseidon and mq-9 reaper. our control electronics provide aircraft with the ability to communicate directly with smart and precision-guidance payloads and create compatibility between a wide range of stores and platforms. we provide c4isr solutions based on our major technology capabilities that include terrestrial satcom terminals; platform integration for battle management systems; advanced ground robotics; weapon and missile defense data-links; and naval acoustic sensors and systems. our satcom terminals connect forces with communication satellites to deliver mission-critical data, including high-resolution imagery and video requiring enormous bandwidth, securely and reliably to any platform. as an example, under the u.s. army modernization of enterprise terminals ( met ) program, we developed next-generation large satellite earth stations to provide the worldwide backbone for high-priority military communications and missile defense systems and to support ip and dedicated circuit connectivity within the global information grid, providing critical reach-capability for the warfighter. we also serve as a platform integrator for battle management systems for u.s. and allied military forces in order to integrate data from a variety of platforms and sensors in support of the planning and execution of operations, including terrain analysis, route management and global distribution of tactical and operational information, and to help military forces digitize their operations, providing a continuous, real-time platform for situational awareness and staff functions, including hostile and blue force tracking, radio communications, planning, personnel, intelligence, local weather and other data. for example, we are providing an integrated battle management system to the united arab emirates armed forces for the emirates command &amp; control system land tactical systems ( bms-elts ) program. our advanced ground robotics capabilities include ruggedized robots with a highly intuitive control interface, haptic feedback and human-like dexterity that support isr, explosive ordnance disposal ( eod ) and hazardous material ( hazmat ) missions. for example, we are providing our t7 tm robotic system to the u.k. ministry of defence for its global eod mission. we design, develop and maintain high-reliability, secure and customized mission-critical communication systems that involve implementing and managing large, complex programs and integrating secure, advanced, standards-based communications and information processing technologies. these systems provide communications, surveillance and information management solutions for customers, including the faa and other civil and military air navigation service providers ( ansps ), airports, airlines and system integrators. we are the prime contractor and system architect for the faa telecommunications infrastructure ( fti ) program and several major faa next generation air transportation system ( nextgen ) programs to transform and upgrade the national airspace system ( nas ), including the automatic dependent surveillance-broadcast ( ads-b ) program, the data communications integrated services and data communication network services ( datacomm ) program, the system-wide information management ( swim ) program and the common support service weather ( css-wx ) program. under the fti program, we designed, integrated and deployed, and now are operating and maintaining, the communications infrastructure for the u.s. air traffic control ( atc ) system, which is fully operational at approximately 4,500 faa sites across the u.s., providing voice, data and video communications. we were awarded in fiscal 2018 a 15-year, systems integration contract to modernize india's atm communications infrastructure. we also provide several aviation products and services, including our symphony software suite that enables flight information display systems, resource allocations and environmental monitoring, and our osyris arrival manager/departure manager product to optimize airport and runway throughput. in addition, we are providing myfloridanet-2, a state-wide secure communications network with about 4,000 sites connecting public safety, law enforcement and other state and local government agencies, under a 14-year (7-year base, 7-year option), single-award idiq contract from the state of florida awarded in fiscal 2017. revenue, operating income and backlog: revenue for our electronic systems segment in fiscal 2018 , 2017 and 2016 was $2,373 million , $2,251 million and $2,233 million , respectively. segment operating income in fiscal 2018 , 2017 and 2016 was $441 million , $464 million and $430 million , respectively. the percentage of our revenue contributed by this segment in fiscal 2018 , 2017 and 2016 was 38 percent , 38 percent and 37 percent , respectively. the percentages of this segment's revenue 6 under contracts directly with end customers and under contracts with prime contractors in fiscal 2018 were approximately 68 percent and 32 percent , respectively. in fiscal 2018 , this segment had a diverse portfolio of over 200 programs. some of this segment's more significant programs in fiscal 2018 included fti, f-35, f/a-18e/f, ads-b, bms-elts and met. the percentages of this segment's revenue in fiscal 2018 represented by this segment's largest program by revenue and ten largest programs by revenue were approximately 13 percent and 51 percent , respectively. the percentage of this segment's revenue in fiscal 2018 that was derived from sales to u.s. government customers, including foreign military sales funded through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, was approximately 82 percent . for a general description of our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, including a discussion of revenue generated thereunder and of cost-reimbursable versus fixed-price contracts, see item 1. business - principal customers; government contracts of this report. the funded backlog for this segment was approximately $2.6 billion , $1.9 billion and $1.9 billion at the end of fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. additional information regarding funded backlog is provided under item 1. business - funded backlog of this report. for a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, see item 1. business - principal customers; government contracts, item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this report. space and intelligence systems space and intelligence systems provides intelligence, space protection, geospatial, complete earth observation, universe exploration, pnt, and environmental solutions for national security, defense, civil and commercial customers, using advanced sensors, antennas and payloads, as well as ground processing and information analytics. many of our space and intelligence systems segment solutions include reliable, resilient and innovative cyber capabilities. we develop, supply and integrate communication and information processing products, systems and networks for a diverse base of classified programs, which comprise about two-thirds of this segment's revenue. serving primarily u.s. intelligence community customers, including the nsa, the national geospatial intelligence agency ( nga ), the national reconnaissance office and the defense intelligence agency, we provide integrated intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance ( isr ) solutions that improve situational awareness and intelligence value to decision makers. in addition, we have advanced capabilities in the architecture, design and development of highly specialized satellite antennas, structures, phased arrays and on-board reconfigurable processors that are used to enable next-generation satellite systems to provide the u.s. military and intelligence community with strategic and tactical advantages. although classified programs generally are not discussed in this report, the operating results relating to classified programs are included in our consolidated financial statements. we believe that the business risks associated with our classified programs do not differ materially from the business risks associated with our other u.s. government programs. to help our dod customers gain, maintain and exploit space superiority, we provide the full spectrum of enterprise architecture services that support the long-term planning, development, integration and sustainment of highly advanced, mission-critical space-based and ground-based surveillance systems for space situational awareness. we also design, integrate and sustain space control systems. for example, we sustain, maintain and modernize large radar installations globally and provide engineering support and sustainment for ground-based systems that support u.s. missile warning, missile defense and space surveillance missions for the u.s. air force under the system engineering and sustainment integrator ( sensor ) program. we are a leading provider of integrated real-time, autonomous geospatial solutions, extending from image and data collection through processing, exploitation and dissemination of actionable intelligence. our specialized capabilities include highly reliable remote sensing systems for ground, air, sea and space; data encryption; information processing; real-time forensic and predictive analytics; content management; and system performance modeling and simulation. we also provide ground processing and analytics solutions that map and monitor earth for a variety of government and commercial users. our geospatial solutions suite of products and services are designed to make it easier and more cost effective for customers to analyze the physical environment and obtain actionable information for more informed decisions, through advanced data collection sources, innovative software tools, and high-volume, high-accuracy processing services. our complete earth observation solutions encompass comprehensive space, airborne, ground and sea remote sensing capabilities, from end-to-end remote sensing systems for global and regional situational awareness to integrated processing solutions on the ground and on airborne platforms that extract critical information and reduce time to high-confidence decisions. we specialize in remote sensing payloads that offer weather and environmental imagery, radar, video, tracking and multi-spectral information, as well as the processing, exploitation and dissemination of the data from these payloads to support our customers' missions. our environmental solutions monitor and evaluate our global environment with ground-based and space-based remote sensing, change detection and data processing. we design, develop and build instruments to help measure, understand and monitor real-time weather and environmental trends to support decision making for government agencies, scientists, businesses 7 and policy makers. in space, advanced environmental satellite systems utilize our imagers and sounders to deliver weather and environmental data back to earth at high resolutions and speeds. on the ground, our satellite ground data processing systems, consisting of suites of hardware and software, receive sensor data from satellites and turn it into actionable information. our weather ground systems, for example, are capable of handling multiple missions simultaneously across a common architecture and enable users to maximize the benefits of our new environmental imaging technology. an example of our capabilities is our complete, end-to-end solution under the national oceanic and atmospheric administration ( noaa ) geostationary operational environmental satellite - series r ( goes-r ) ground and antenna segment weather programs. we designed, developed and delivered to noaa the ground segment system that receives and processes satellite data, generates and distributes weather data to more than 10,000 direct users, and commands and controls the goes-r satellites. we are also supplying antennas and control systems that will provide communication links for command, telemetry and sensor data, as well as the communication link to direct data users. another example is the satellite sensors we are providing to measure pressure, moisture and thermal radiation for nasa's joint polar satellite system program. we are a global provider of pnt products, systems and solutions. for example, our u.s. global positioning system ( gps ) navigation systems comprise high-performance, reliable, cost-effective gps payload, control and interference location solutions. our navigation payload technology is an integral component of gps satellites and supports gps availability, accuracy and integrity. we currently are deploying advanced technologies under the gps iii program to improve the accuracy and reliability of the next generation of gps satellites. we also develop small, affordable, high-resolution commercial imaging systems. we design, develop, manufacture and integrate agile and high-performance modular, reconfigurable space payloads that maximize mission performance. we help our customers achieve their space missions more quickly and cost effectively by brokering, designing and integrating multimission satellite hosted payloads. for example, we supplied aireon, llc with ads-b receiver payloads that are part of a satellite-based aircraft tracking system to enhance global atc. the payloads are hosted on the iridium next satellite constellation and provide a capability separate from the main mission of the constellation. using our experience with hosted payloads, we are expanding into agile and resilient small satellite solutions, which we believe are aligned with the u.s. government's disaggregation and affordability initiatives. we also provide space antenna systems and precision space structures. we are an experienced space reflector manufacturer and specialize in large, high-accuracy reflectors. from unfurlable and fixed-mesh reflector antennas to solid spot beam antennas, our solutions deliver significantly higher data rates and access greater amounts of bandwidth than standard satellite antenna technologies. another example of our solutions for commercial customers is our tool suite to enable customers to extract information from geospatial imagery products, including our jagwire web-based geospatial data management software that quickly discovers data, transforms it into information and delivers it to decision makers, even in low bandwidth environments; and our envi image analysis software that analyzes virtually any geospatial data type. revenue, operating income and backlog: revenue for our space and intelligence systems segment in fiscal 2018 , 2017 and 2016 was $1,921 million , $1,902 million and $1,899 million , respectively. segment operating income in fiscal 2018 , 2017 and 2016 was $336 million , $311 million and $288 million , respectively. the percentage of our revenue contributed by this segment in fiscal 2018 , 2017 and 2016 was 31 percent , 32 percent and 32 percent , respectively. the percentages of this segment's revenue under contracts directly with end customers and under contracts with prime contractors in fiscal 2018 were approximately 72 percent and 28 percent , respectively. in fiscal 2018 , this segment had a diverse portfolio of over 200 programs. some of this segment's more significant programs in fiscal 2018 included sensor, goes-r and gps and various classified programs. the percentages of this segment's revenue in fiscal 2018 represented by this segment's largest program by revenue and ten largest programs by revenue were approximately 9 percent and 48 percent , respectively. the percentage of this segment's revenue in fiscal 2018 that was derived from sales to u.s. government customers, including foreign military sales funded through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, was approximately 93 percent . for a general description of our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, including a discussion of revenue generated thereunder and of cost-reimbursable versus fixed-price contracts, see item 1. business - principal customers; government contracts of this report. the funded backlog for this segment was approximately $1.1 billion at the end of each of fiscal 2018 , 2017 and 2016 . additional information regarding funded backlog is provided under item 1. business - funded backlog of this report. for a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, see item 1. business - principal customers; government contracts, item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this report. 8 international business revenue from products and services exported from the u.s., including foreign military sales, or manufactured or rendered abroad in fiscal 2018 , 2017 and 2016 was $1.3 billion ( 21 percent of our revenue), $1.3 billion ( 22 percent of our revenue) and $1.2 billion ( 20 percent of our revenue), respectively. most of our international sales were derived from our communication systems and electronic systems segments. direct export sales are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars, whereas sales from foreign subsidiaries are generally denominated in the local currency of the subsidiary. financial information regarding our domestic and international operations, including long-lived assets, is contained in note 22: business segments in the notes and is incorporated herein by reference. the majority of our international marketing activities are conducted through subsidiaries that operate in europe, asia, the middle east, africa, australia and canada. we have also established international marketing organizations and several regional sales offices. for further information regarding our international subsidiaries, see exhibit 21 of this report. fiscal 2018 international revenue came from a large number of countries, and no single foreign country accounted for more than 5 percent of our total revenue. some of our exports are paid for by letters of credit, with the balance carried either on an open account or installment note basis. advance payments, progress payments or other similar payments received prior to or upon shipment often cover most of the related costs incurred. significant foreign government contracts generally require us to provide performance guarantees. in order to remain competitive in international markets, we also sometimes enter into offset agreements or recourse or vendor financing arrangements to facilitate sales to certain customers. we utilize indirect sales channels, including dealers, distributors and sales representatives, in the marketing and sale of some lines of products and equipment, both domestically and internationally. these independent representatives may buy for resale or, in some cases, solicit orders from commercial or government customers for direct sales by us. prices to the ultimate customer in many instances may be recommended or established by the independent representative and may be above or below our list prices. our dealers and distributors generally receive a discount from our list prices and may mark up those prices in setting the final sales prices paid by the customer. revenue from indirect sales channels represented approximately 10 percent , 11 percent and 15 percent of total revenue and 47 percent , 38 percent and 62 percent of international revenue in fiscal 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , respectively. the particular economic, social and political conditions for business conducted outside the u.s. differ from those encountered by businesses in the u.s. we believe that the overall business risk for our international business as a whole is somewhat greater than that faced by our domestic businesses as a whole. a description of the types of risks to which we are subject in our international business is contained in item 1a. risk factors of this report. in our opinion, these risks are partially mitigated by the diversification of our international business and the protection provided by letters of credit and advance payments, progress payments and other similar payments. competition we operate in highly competitive markets that are sensitive to technological advances. many of our competitors in each of our markets are larger than we are and can maintain higher levels of expenditures for research and development. in each of our markets, we concentrate on the opportunities that we believe are compatible with our resources, overall technological capabilities and objectives. principal competitive factors in these markets are product quality and reliability; technological capabilities, including reliable, resilient and innovative cyber capabilities; service; past performance; ability to develop and implement complex, integrated solutions; ability to meet delivery schedules; the effectiveness of third-party sales channels in international markets; and cost-effectiveness. we frequently partner or are involved in subcontracting and teaming relationships with companies that are, from time to time, competitors on other programs. our principal competitors include bae systems, boeing, general dynamics, l-3 technologies, lockheed martin, motorola solutions, northrop grumman, raytheon and rockwell collins. principal customers; government contracts the percentage of our revenue that was derived from sales to u.s. government customers, including foreign military sales funded through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, in fiscal 2018 , 2017 and 2016 was approximately 75 percent , 74 percent and 77 percent , respectively. no other customer accounted for more than 5 percent of our revenue in fiscal 2018 . additional information regarding customers for each of our segments is provided under item 1. business description of business by segment of this report. our u.s. government sales are predominantly derived from contracts with departments and agencies of, and prime contractors to, the u.s. government. most of the sales in our electronic systems and space and intelligence systems segments are made directly or indirectly to the u.s. government under contracts or subcontracts containing standard government contract clauses providing for redetermination of profits, if applicable, and for termination for the convenience of the u.s. government or for default based on performance. 9 our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts include both cost-reimbursable and fixed-price contracts. government-wide acquisition contracts ( gwacs ) and multi-vendor idiq contracts, which can include task orders for each contract type, require us to compete both for the initial contract and then for individual task or delivery orders under such contracts. our u.s. government cost-reimbursable contracts provide for the reimbursement of allowable costs plus payment of a fee and fall into three basic types: (i) cost-plus fixed-fee contracts, which provide for payment of a fixed fee irrespective of the final cost of performance; (ii) cost-plus incentive-fee contracts, which provide for payment of a fee that may increase or decrease, within specified limits, based on actual results compared with contractual targets relating to factors such as cost, performance and delivery schedule; and (iii) cost-plus award-fee contracts, which provide for payment of an award fee determined at the customer's discretion based on our performance against pre-established performance criteria. under our u.s. government cost-reimbursable contracts, we are reimbursed periodically for allowable costs and are paid a portion of the fee based on contract progress. some overhead costs have been made partially or wholly unallowable for reimbursement by statute or regulation. examples include certain merger and acquisition costs, lobbying costs, charitable contributions, interest expense and certain litigation defense costs. our u.s. government fixed-price contracts are either firm fixed-price contracts or fixed-price incentive contracts. under our u.s. government firm fixed-price contracts, we agree to perform a specific scope of work for a fixed price and, as a result, benefit from cost savings and carry the burden of cost overruns. under our u.s. government fixed-price incentive contracts, we share with the u.s. government both savings accrued for performance at less than target cost as well as costs incurred in excess of target cost up to a negotiated ceiling price, which is higher than the target cost, but carry the entire burden of costs exceeding the negotiated ceiling price. accordingly, under such incentive contracts, profit may also be adjusted up or down depending on whether specified performance objectives are met. under our u.s. government firm fixed-price and fixed-price incentive contracts, we generally receive from the u.s. government either milestone payments totaling 100 percent of the contract price or monthly progress payments in amounts equaling 80 percent of costs incurred under the contract. the remaining amounts, including profits or incentive fees, are billed upon delivery and final acceptance of end items and deliverables under the contract. our production contracts are mainly fixed-price contracts, and development contracts are generally cost-reimbursable contracts. as stated above, u.s. government contracts are terminable for the convenience of the u.s. government, as well as for default based on performance. companies supplying goods and services to the u.s. government are dependent on congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of funds and may be affected by changes in u.s. government policies resulting from various military, political, economic and international developments. long-term u.s. government contracts and related orders are subject to cancellation if appropriations for subsequent performance periods become unavailable. under contracts terminable for the convenience of the u.s. government, a contractor is entitled to receive payments for its allowable costs and, in general, the proportionate share of fees or earnings for the work done. contracts that are terminable for default generally provide that the u.s. government pays only for the work it has accepted and may require the contractor to pay for the incremental cost of re-procurement and may hold the contractor liable for damages. in many cases, there is also uncertainty relating to the complexity of designs, necessity for design improvements and difficulty in forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work. under many u.s. government contracts, we are required to maintain facility and personnel security clearances complying with dod and other federal agency requirements. for further discussion of risks relating to u.s. government contracts, see item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this report. funded backlog total company-wide funded backlog was approximately $5.2 billion , $4.1 billion and $4.0 billion at the end of fiscal 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , respectively. the determination of backlog involves substantial estimating, particularly with respect to customer requirements contracts and development and production contracts of a cost-reimbursable or incentive nature. the level of order activity related to u.s. government programs can be affected by timing of u.s. government funding authorizations and project evaluation cycles. year-over-year comparisons could, at times, be impacted by these factors, among others. we define funded backlog as unfilled firm orders for products and services for which funding has been authorized and, in the case of u.s. government customers, appropriated. in fiscal 2019 , we expect to convert to revenue approximately 56 percent of our total funded backlog as of the end of fiscal 2018 . however, we can give no assurance of such fulfillment or that our funded backlog will become revenue in any particular period, if at all. backlog is subject to delivery delays and program cancellations, which are beyond our control. research and development company-sponsored research and development ( r&amp;d ) costs, which include r&amp;d for commercial products and services and independent r&amp;d related to government products and services, as well as concept formulation studies and technology development that occurs on certain bid and proposal efforts, in fiscal 2018 , 2017 and 2016 were approximately $311 10 million , $310 million and $305 million , respectively. a portion of our independent r&amp;d costs are allocated among contracts and programs in process under u.s. government contractual arrangements. company-sponsored r&amp;d costs not otherwise allocable are charged to expense when incurred. company-sponsored research is directed to the development of new products and services and to building technological capability in various markets. customer-sponsored r&amp;d costs are incurred pursuant to contractual arrangements, principally u.s. government-sponsored contracts requiring us to provide a product or service meeting certain defined performance or other specifications (such as designs). this research helps strengthen and broaden our technical capabilities. customer-sponsored research costs are accounted for principally by the cost-to-cost percentage-of-completion method and included in our revenue and cost of product sales and services. patents and other intellectual property we consider our patents and other intellectual property, in the aggregate, to constitute an important asset. we own a large portfolio of patents, trade secrets, know-how, confidential information, trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property, including reliable, resilient and innovative cyber capabilities, and we routinely apply for new patents, trademarks and copyrights. we also license intellectual property to and from third parties. as of june 29, 2018 , we held approximately 1,750 u.s. patents and 1,370 foreign patents, and had approximately 150 u.s. patent applications pending and 210 foreign patent applications pending. unpatented research, development and engineering skills also make an important contribution to our business. although our intellectual property rights in the aggregate are important to our business and the operations of our business segments, we do not consider our business or any business segment to be materially dependent on any single patent, license or other intellectual property right, or any group of related patents, licenses or other intellectual property rights. we are engaged in a proactive patent licensing program and have entered into a number of licenses and cross-license agreements, some of which generate royalty income. although existing license agreements have generated income in past years and may do so in the future, there can be no assurances we will enter into additional income-producing license agreements. from time to time we engage in litigation to protect our patents and other intellectual property. any of our patents, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights and other proprietary rights could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or may not provide competitive advantages. for further discussion of risks relating to intellectual property, see item 1a. risk factors of this report. with regard to certain patents, the u.s. government has an irrevocable, non-exclusive, royalty-free license, pursuant to which the u.s. government may use or authorize others to use the inventions covered by such patents. pursuant to similar arrangements, the u.s. government may consent to our use of inventions covered by patents owned by other persons. numerous trademarks used on or in connection with our products are also considered to be a valuable asset. environmental and other regulations our facilities and operations are subject to numerous domestic and international laws and regulations designed to protect the environment, particularly with regard to waste and emissions. the applicable environmental laws and regulations are common within the industries and markets in which we operate and serve. we believe that we have complied with these requirements and that such compliance has not had a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we have installed waste treatment facilities and pollution control equipment to satisfy legal requirements and to achieve our waste minimization and prevention goals. a portion of our environmental expenditures relates to businesses or operations we no longer own, but for which we have retained certain environmental liabilities. we did not spend material amounts on environmental-related capital projects in fiscal 2018 , 2017 or 2016 . based on currently available information, we do not expect capital expenditures in fiscal 2019 or over the next several years to protect the environment and to comply with current environmental laws and regulations, as well as to comply with current and pending climate control legislation, regulation, treaties and accords, to be material or to have a material impact on our competitive position or financial condition, but we can give no assurance that such expenditures will not exceed current expectations, and such expenditures may increase in future years. if future treaties, laws and regulations contain more stringent requirements than presently anticipated, actual expenditures may be higher than our present estimates of those expenditures. additional information regarding environmental and regulatory matters is set forth in item 3. legal proceedings of this report and in note 1: significant accounting policies and note 23: legal proceedings and contingencies in the notes. electronic products are subject to governmental environmental regulation in a number of jurisdictions, such as domestic and international requirements requiring end-of-life management and/or restricting materials in products delivered to customers, including the european union's directive 2012/19/eu on waste electrical and electronic equipment and directive 2011/65/eu on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment ( rohs ), as amended. other jurisdictions have adopted similar legislation. such requirements typically are not applicable to most equipment produced by our segments. we believe that we have complied with such rules and regulations, where applicable, with respect to our existing products sold into such jurisdictions. we intend to comply with such rules and regulations with respect to our future products. 11 wireless communications, whether radio, satellite or telecommunications, are also subject to governmental regulation. equipment produced in our communication systems segment, in particular, is subject to domestic and international requirements to avoid interference among users of radio and television frequencies and to permit interconnection of telecommunications equipment. we are also required to comply with technical operating and licensing requirements that pertain to our wireless licenses and operations. we believe that we have complied with such rules and regulations and licenses with respect to our existing products and services, and we intend to comply with such rules and regulations and licenses with respect to our future products and services. governmental reallocation of the frequency spectrum also could impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. raw materials and supplies because of the diversity of our products and services, as well as the wide geographic dispersion of our facilities, we use numerous sources for the wide array of raw materials, such as electronic components, printed circuit boards, metals and plastics, needed for our operations and for our products. we are dependent on suppliers and subcontractors for a large number of components and subsystems and the ability of our suppliers and subcontractors to adhere to customer or regulatory materials restrictions and to meet performance and quality specifications and delivery schedules. in some instances, we are dependent on one or a few sources, either because of the specialized nature of a particular item or because of local content preference requirements pursuant to which we operate on a given project. although we have been affected by financial and performance issues of some of our suppliers and subcontractors, we have not been materially adversely affected by the inability to obtain raw materials or products. on occasion, we have experienced component shortages from vendors as a result of natural disasters, or the rohs environmental regulations in the european union or similar regulations in other jurisdictions. these events or regulations may cause a spike in demand for certain electronic components, such as lead-free components, resulting in industry-wide supply chain shortages. as of june 29, 2018 , these component shortages have not had a material adverse effect on our business. for further discussion of risks relating to subcontractors and suppliers, see item 1a. risk factors of this report. seasonality we do not consider any material portion of our business to be seasonal. various factors can affect the distribution of our revenue between accounting periods, including the timing of contract awards and the timing and availability of u.s. government funding, as well as the timing of product deliveries and customer acceptance. employees we had approximately 17,500 employees at the end of fiscal 2018 . approximately 95 percent of our employees as of the end of fiscal 2018 were located in the u.s. a significant number of our employees possess a u.s. government security clearance. we also utilize a number of independent contractors. approximately 600 of our u.s. employees are working under collective bargaining agreements with labor unions and worker representatives. these collective bargaining agreements will be renegotiated at various times over the next three years as they expire. we have historically renegotiated these agreements without significant disruption to operating activities. for certain international subsidiaries, our employees are represented by workers' councils or statutory labor unions. in general, we believe that our relations with our employees are good. website access to harris reports; available information general. we maintain an internet website at https://www.harris.com . our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to such reports, filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act, are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the u.s. securities and exchange commission ( sec ). we also will provide the reports in electronic or paper form free of charge upon request to our secretary at harris corporation, 1025 west nasa boulevard, melbourne, florida 32919. we also make available free of charge on our website our annual report to shareholders and proxy statement. our website and the information posted thereon are not incorporated into this report or any current or other periodic report that we file with or furnish to the sec. all reports we file with or furnish to the sec also are available free of charge via the sec's electronic data gathering and retrieval, or edgar, system available through the sec's website at https://www.sec.gov. additional information relating to our business, including our business segments, is set forth in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report. corporate governance guidelines and committee charters. we previously adopted corporate governance guidelines, which are available on the corporate governance section of our website at https://www.harris.com/about/corporate-governance . in addition, the charters of each of the standing committees of our board, namely, the audit committee, finance committee, governance and corporate responsibility committee and management development and compensation committee, are also available on the corporate governance section of our website. a copy of the charters is also available free of charge upon written request to our secretary at harris corporation, 1025 west nasa boulevard, melbourne, florida 32919. 12 certifications. we have filed with the sec the certifications required by section 302 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 as exhibits to this report. in addition, an annual ceo certification was submitted by our chief executive officer to the nyse in november 2017 in accordance with the nyse's listing standards, which included a certification that he was not aware of any violation by harris of the nyse's corporate governance listing standards. item 1a. risk factors. we have described many of the trends and other factors that we believe could impact our business and future results in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report. in addition, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are subject to, and could be materially adversely affected by, various risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, those set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or our anticipated future results. we depend on u.s. government customers for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of these relationships, a reduction in u.s. government funding or a change in u.s. government spending priorities could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are highly dependent on sales to u.s. government customers. the percentage of our revenue that was derived from sales to u.s. government customers, including foreign military sales funded through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, in fiscal 2018 , 2017 and 2016 was approximately 75 percent , 74 percent and 77 percent , respectively. therefore, any significant disruption or deterioration of our relationship with the u.s. government would significantly reduce our revenue. our competitors continuously engage in efforts to expand their business relationships with the u.s. government and will continue these efforts in the future, and the u.s. government may choose to use other contractors. we expect that a majority of the business that we seek will be awarded through competitive bidding. the u.s. government has increasingly relied on certain types of contracts that are subject to multiple competitive bidding processes, including multi-vendor idiq, gwac, general services administration schedule and other multi-award contracts, which has resulted in greater competition and increased pricing pressure. we operate in highly competitive markets. many of our competitors have greater financial resources than we do and may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do in some areas. we may not be able to continue to win competitively awarded contracts or to obtain task orders under multi-award contracts. further, the competitive bidding process involves significant cost and managerial time to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us or may be split among competitors, as well as the risk that we may fail to accurately estimate the resources and costs required to fulfill any contract awarded to us. the current competitive environment has resulted in unsuccessful bidders more frequently initiating bid protests. following any contract award, we may experience significant expense or delay, contract modification or contract rescission as a result of our competitors protesting or challenging contracts awarded to us in competitive bidding. our u.s. government programs must compete with programs managed by other government contractors and with other policy imperatives for consideration for limited resources and for uncertain levels of funding during the budget and appropriations process. budget and appropriations decisions made by the u.s. government are outside of our control and have long-term consequences for our business. u.s. government spending priorities and levels remain uncertain and difficult to predict and are affected by numerous factors, including sequestration (automatic, across-the-board u.s. government budgetary spending cuts) and potential alternative funding arrangements. a change in u.s. government spending priorities or an increase in non-procurement spending at the expense of our programs, or a reduction in total u.s. government spending, could have material adverse consequences on our current or future business. any inability of the u.s. government to complete its budget process for any government fiscal year and consequently having to operate on funding levels equivalent to its prior fiscal year pursuant to a continuing resolution or shut down, also could have material adverse consequences on our current or future business. for more information regarding sequestration, see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations business considerations industry-wide opportunities, challenges and risks of this report. we depend significantly on u.s. government contracts, which often are only partially funded, subject to immediate termination, and heavily regulated and audited. the termination or failure to fund, or negative audit findings for, one or more of these contracts could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. over its lifetime, a u.s. government program may be implemented by the award of many different individual contracts and subcontracts. the funding of u.s. government programs is subject to congressional appropriations. although multi-year contracts may be authorized and appropriated in connection with major procurements, congress generally appropriates funds on a government fiscal year basis. procurement funds are typically made available for obligation over the course of one to three years. consequently, programs often receive only partial funding initially, and additional funds are obligated only as congress 13 authorizes further appropriations. the termination of funding for a u.s. government program would result in a loss of anticipated future revenue attributable to that program, which could have an adverse impact on our operations. in addition, the termination of a program or the failure to commit additional funds to a program that already has been started could result in lost revenue and increase our overall costs of doing business. generally, u.s. government contracts are subject to oversight audits by u.s. government representatives. such audits could result in adjustments to our contract costs. any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, and such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. we have recorded contract revenue based on costs we expect to realize upon final audit. however, we do not know the outcome of any future audits and adjustments, and we may be required to materially reduce our revenue or profits upon completion and final negotiation of audits. negative audit findings could also result in termination of a contract, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or debarment from u.s. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. in addition, u.s. government contracts generally contain provisions permitting termination, in whole or in part, without prior notice at the u.s. government's convenience upon payment only for work done and commitments made at the time of termination. we can give no assurance that one or more of our u.s. government contracts will not be terminated under these circumstances. also, we can give no assurance that we would be able to procure new contracts to offset the revenue or backlog lost as a result of any termination of our u.s. government contracts. because a significant portion of our revenue is dependent on our performance and payment under our u.s. government contracts, the loss of one or more large contracts could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our government business also is subject to specific procurement regulations and a variety of socioeconomic and other requirements. these requirements, although customary in u.s. government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. these costs might increase in the future, thereby reducing our margins, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could lead to fines, penalties, repayments, or compensatory or treble damages, or suspension or debarment from u.s. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. among the causes for debarment are violations of various laws, including those related to procurement integrity, export control, u.s. government security regulations, employment practices, protection of the environment, accuracy of records, proper recording of costs and foreign corruption. the termination of a u.s. government contract or relationship as a result of any of these acts would have an adverse impact on our operations and could have an adverse effect on our standing and eligibility for future u.s. government contracts. we could be negatively impacted by a security breach, through cyber attack, cyber intrusion, insider threats or otherwise, or other significant disruption of our it networks and related systems or of those we operate for certain of our customers. we face the risk, as does any company, of a security breach, whether through cyber attack, cyber intrusion or insider threat via the internet, malware, computer viruses, attachments to e-mails, persons inside our organization or with access to systems inside our organization, or other significant disruption of our it networks and related systems or those of our suppliers or subcontractors. we face an added risk of a security breach or other significant disruption of the it networks and related systems that we develop, install, operate and maintain for certain of our customers, which may involve managing and protecting information relating to national security and other sensitive government functions or personally identifiable or protected health information. the risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, is persistent and substantial as the volume, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks, intrusions and threats from around the world remain elevated and unlikely to diminish. as an advanced technology-based solutions provider, and particularly as a government contractor, we face a heightened risk of a security breach or disruption from threats to gain unauthorized access to our and our customers' proprietary or classified information on our it networks and related systems and to the it networks and related systems that we operate and maintain for certain of our customers. these types of information and it networks and related systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day-to-day operations, and, in some cases, are critical to the operations of certain of our customers. we make significant efforts to maintain the security and integrity of these types of information and it networks and related systems and have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption. our efforts and measures have not been entirely effective in the case of every cyber security incident, but no incident has had a material negative impact on us to date. even the most well protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because attempted security breaches, particularly cyber attacks and cyber intrusions, or disruptions will occur in the future, and because the techniques used in such attempts are constantly evolving and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed not to be detected and, in fact, may not be detected. in some cases, the resources of foreign governments may be behind such attacks due to the nature of our business and the industries in which we operate. accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures. thus, it is impossible for us to entirely mitigate this risk, and there can be no assurance that future cyber security incidents will not have a material negative impact on us. a security breach or other significant disruption involving these types of information and it networks and related systems could: 14 disrupt the proper functioning of these networks and systems and, therefore, our operations and/or those of certain of our customers; result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of, proprietary, confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable information of ours, our customers or our employees, including trade secrets, which could be used to compete against us or for disruptive, destructive or otherwise harmful purposes and outcomes; compromise national security and other sensitive government functions; require significant management attention and resources to remedy the damages that result; subject us to claims for contract breach, damages, credits, penalties or termination; and damage our reputation with our customers (particularly agencies of the u.s. government) and the general public. any or all of the foregoing could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the u.s. government's budget deficit, the national debt and sequestration, as well as any inability of the u.s. government to complete its budget process for any government fiscal year and consequently having to operate on funding levels equivalent to its prior fiscal year pursuant to a continuing resolution or shut down, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the u.s. government's budget deficit, the national debt and sequestration could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in a number of ways, including the following: the u.s. government could reduce or delay its spending on, or reprioritize its spending away from, the government programs in which we participate; the u.s. government may be unable to complete its budget process for an upcoming government fiscal year prior to the year's october 1 commencement and consequently would be required either to shut down or be funded pursuant to a continuing resolution that authorizes agencies of the u.s. government to continue operations but does not authorize new spending initiatives, either of which could result in reduced or delayed orders or payments for products and services we provide, which may decrease our revenue, profitability or cash flows or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations; u.s. government spending could be impacted by sequestration or alternate arrangements, which increases the uncertainty as to, and the difficulty in predicting, u.s. government spending priorities and levels; and we may experience declines in revenue, profitability and cash flows as a result of reduced or delayed orders or payments or other factors caused by economic difficulties of our customers and prospective customers, including u.s. federal, state and local governments. the level of returns on defined benefit plan assets, changes in interest rates and other factors could affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future periods. a substantial portion of our current and retired employee population is covered by defined benefit pension and other postretirement defined benefit plans (collectively, defined benefit plans ), as a result of our acquisition of exelis in fiscal 2015. we may experience significant fluctuations in costs related to defined benefit plans as a result of macro-economic factors, such as interest rates, that are beyond our control. the cost of our defined benefit plans is incurred over long periods of time and involves various factors and uncertainties during those periods that can be volatile and unpredictable, including the rates of return on defined benefit plan assets, discount rates used to calculate liabilities and expenses, mortality of plan participants and trends for future medical costs. we develop our assumptions using relevant plan experience and expectations in conjunction with market-related data. our financial condition and results of operations could be materially affected by significant changes in key economic indicators, financial market volatility, future legislation and other governmental regulatory actions. we will make contributions to fund our defined benefit plans when considered necessary or advantageous to do so. the macro-economic factors discussed above, including the rates of return on defined benefit plan assets and the minimum funding requirements established by government funding or taxing authorities, or established by other agreement, may influence future funding requirements. a significant decline in the fair value of our plan assets, or other adverse changes to our overall defined benefit plans, could require us to make significant funding contributions and affect cash flows in future periods. u.s. government cost accounting standards ( cas ) govern the extent to which postretirement costs and plan contributions are allocable to and recoverable under contracts with the u.s. government. as a result, we expect to continue to seek reimbursement from the u.s. government for a portion of our postretirement costs and plan contributions. on december 27, 2011, the u.s. government's cost accounting standards board published a final rule that harmonizes cas pension cost reimbursement rules with the pension protection act of 2006 ( ppa ) funding requirements. the rule is expected to eventually mitigate the mismatch between cas costs and ppa-amended employee retirement income security act of 1974 ( erisa ) minimum funding requirements and result in an acceleration of allowable cas pension costs as compared 15 to the prior rules. the final rule applied to exelis' contracts starting in 2013, including a five-year phase in. the full phase-in was achieved in 2017. we anticipate that government contractors will be entitled to an equitable adjustment for any additional cas contract costs resulting from the final rule, although we can give no assurances in this regard. we enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses in the event of cost overruns or a significant increase in inflation. we have a number of fixed-price contracts, which allow us to benefit from cost savings, but subject us to the risk of potential cost overruns, particularly for firm fixed-price contracts because we assume all of the cost burden. if our initial estimates are incorrect, we can lose money on these contracts. u.s. government contracts can expose us to potentially large losses because the u.s. government can hold us responsible for completing a project or, in certain circumstances, paying the entire cost of its replacement by another provider regardless of the size or foreseeability of any cost overruns that occur over the life of the contract. because many of these contracts involve new technologies and applications and can last for years, unforeseen events, such as technological difficulties, fluctuations in the price of raw materials, a significant increase in inflation in the u.s. or other countries, problems with our suppliers and cost overruns, can result in the contractual price becoming less favorable or even unprofitable to us over time. furthermore, if we do not meet contract deadlines or specifications, we may need to renegotiate contracts on less favorable terms, be forced to pay penalties or liquidated damages or suffer major losses if the customer exercises its right to terminate. in addition, some of our contracts have provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights, and if we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts, we may not realize their full benefits. our results of operations are dependent on our ability to maximize our earnings from our contracts. cost overruns could have an adverse impact on our financial results. the potential impact of such risk on our financial results would increase if the mix of our contracts and programs shifted toward a greater percentage of fixed-price contracts, particularly firm fixed-price contracts. we use estimates in accounting for many of our programs, and changes in our estimates could adversely affect our future financial results. accounting for our contracts requires judgment relative to assessing risks, including risks associated with customer directed delays and reductions in scheduled deliveries, unfavorable resolutions of claims and contractual matters, judgments associated with estimating contract revenue and costs, and assumptions for schedule and technical issues. due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenue and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. for example, we must make assumptions regarding: (i) the length of time to complete the contract because costs also include expected increases in wages and prices for materials; (ii) whether the intent of entering into multiple contracts was effectively to enter into a single project in order to determine whether such contracts should be combined or segmented; (iii) incentives or penalties related to performance on contracts in estimating revenue and profit rates, and record them when there is sufficient information for us to assess anticipated performance; and (iv) estimates of award fees in estimating revenue and profit rates based on actual and anticipated awards. because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes involved in accounting for our contracts, materially different amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. we derive a significant portion of our revenue from international operations and are subject to the risks of doing business internationally, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates. we are dependent on sales to customers outside the u.s. the percentage of our total revenue represented by revenue from products and services exported from the u.s., including foreign military sales, or manufactured or rendered abroad in fiscal 2018 , 2017 and 2016 was 21 percent , 22 percent and 20 percent , respectively. approximately 24 percent of our international business in fiscal 2018 was transacted in local currency. losses resulting from currency rate fluctuations can adversely affect our results. we expect that international revenue will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue. also, a significant portion of our international revenue is from, and a significant portion of our business activity is being conducted with or in, less-developed countries and sometimes countries with unstable governments, or in areas of military conflict or at military installations. other risks of doing business internationally include: currency exchange controls, fluctuations of currency and currency revaluations; the laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments relating to investments and operations, as well as u.s. laws affecting the activities of u.s. companies abroad, including the foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ); import and export licensing requirements and regulations, as well as unforeseen changes in export controls and other trade regulations; changes in regulatory requirements, including business or operating license requirements, imposition of tariffs or embargoes; uncertainties and restrictions concerning the availability of funding, credit or guarantees; risk of non-payment or delayed payment by foreign governments; 16 contractual obligations to non-u.s. customers may include specific in-country purchases, investments, manufacturing agreements or financial or other support arrangements or obligations, known as offset obligations, that may extend over several years, may require teaming with local companies and may result in significant penalties if not satisfied; the complexity and necessity of using, and disruptions involving our, international dealers, distributors, sales representatives and consultants; the difficulties of managing a geographically dispersed organization and culturally diverse workforces, including compliance with local laws and practices; difficulties associated with repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner and changes in tax laws; uncertainties as to local laws and enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights and occasional requirements for onerous contract terms; rapid changes in government, economic and political policies, political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of international boycotts or u.s. anti-boycott legislation; and increased risk of an incident resulting in damage or destruction to our facilities or products or resulting in injury or loss of life to our employees, subcontractors or other third parties. our reputation and ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of our employees, agents or business partners. we have implemented compliance controls, policies and procedures designed to prevent reckless or criminal acts from being committed by our employees, agents or business partners that would violate the laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including laws governing payments to government officials, such as the fcpa, and to detect any such reckless or criminal acts committed. we cannot ensure, however, that our controls, policies and procedures will prevent or detect all such reckless or criminal acts, and we have been adversely impacted by such acts in the past. if not prevented, such reckless or criminal acts could subject us to civil or criminal investigations, monetary and non-monetary penalties and suspension and debarment by the u.s. government and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct business, our results of operations and our reputation. in addition, misconduct involving data security lapses resulting in the compromise of personal information or the improper use of our customer's sensitive or classified information could result in remediation costs, regulatory sanctions against us and serious harm to our reputation and could adversely impact our ability to continue to contract with the u.s. government. we may not be successful in obtaining the necessary export licenses to conduct certain operations abroad, and congress may prevent proposed sales to certain foreign governments. we must first obtain export and other licenses and authorizations from various u.s. government agencies before we are permitted to sell certain products and technologies outside of the u.s. for example, the u.s. department of state must notify congress at least 15 to 60 days, depending on the size and location of the proposed sale, prior to authorizing certain sales of defense equipment and services to foreign governments. during that time, congress may take action to block the proposed sale. we can give no assurance that we will continue to be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses or authorizations or that congress will not prevent or delay certain sales. any significant impairment of our ability to sell products or technologies outside of the u.s. could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our future success will depend on our ability to develop new products, systems, services and technologies that achieve market acceptance in our current and future markets. our businesses are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry standards. accordingly, our performance depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: identify emerging technological trends in our current and target markets; develop and maintain competitive products, systems, services and technologies; enhance our offerings by adding innovative hardware, software or other features that differentiate our products, systems, services and technologies from those of our competitors; and develop, manufacture and bring to market cost-effective offerings quickly. we believe that, in order to remain competitive in the future, we will need to continue to develop new products, systems, services and technologies, which will require the investment of significant financial resources. the need to make these expenditures could divert our attention and resources from other projects, and we cannot be sure that these expenditures ultimately will lead to the timely development of new products, systems, services or technologies. due to the design complexity of some of our products, systems, services and technologies, we may experience delays in completing development and introducing new products, systems, services or technologies in the future. any delays could result in increased costs of development or redirect resources from other projects. in addition, we cannot provide assurances that the markets for our products, systems, services or technologies will develop as we currently anticipate. the failure of our products, systems, 17 services or technologies to gain market acceptance could significantly reduce our revenue and harm our business. furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing products, systems, services or technologies that gain market acceptance in advance of our products, systems, services or technologies, or that our competitors will not develop new products, systems, services or technologies that cause our existing products, systems, services or technologies to become non-competitive or obsolete, which could adversely affect our results of operations. the future direction of the domestic and global economies, including its impact on customer demand, also will have a significant impact on our overall performance. we participate in markets that are often subject to uncertain economic conditions, which makes it difficult to estimate growth in our markets and, as a result, future income and expenditures. we participate in u.s. and international markets that are subject to uncertain economic conditions. in particular, u.s. government spending priorities and levels remain uncertain and difficult to predict and are affected by numerous factors, including sequestration and potential alternative funding arrangements. in addition, certain of our non-u.s. customers, including in the middle east and other oil or natural-gas producing countries, could be adversely affected by weakness or volatility in oil or natural gas prices, or negative expectations about future prices or volatility, which could adversely affect demand for our tactical communications, electronic systems or other products, systems or services. as a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth in the markets in which we participate. because all components of our budgeting and forecasting are dependent on estimates of growth in the markets we serve, the uncertainty renders estimates of or guidance relating to future revenue, income and expenditures even more difficult. as a result, we may make significant investments and expenditures but never realize the anticipated benefits. we cannot predict the consequences of future geo-political events, but they may adversely affect the markets in which we operate, our ability to insure against risks, our operations or our profitability. ongoing instability and current conflicts in global markets, including in the middle east and asia, and the potential for other conflicts and future terrorist activities and other recent geo-political events throughout the world, including new or increased tariffs and potential trade wars and the pending voluntary exit of the united kingdom from the european union (commonly referred to as brexit ), have created economic and political uncertainties and impacts that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and profitability. these matters cause uncertainty in the world's financial and insurance markets and may significantly increase the political, economic and social instability in the geographic areas in which we operate. these matters may cause us to incur increased costs or experience difficulty with future borrowings under our commercial paper program or credit facilities or in the debt markets, or otherwise with financing our operating, investing (including any future acquisitions) or financing activities. these matters also may cause our insurance coverages and performance bonds to increase in cost, or in some cases, to be unavailable altogether. strategic transactions, including acquisitions and divestitures, involve significant risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. strategic acquisitions and divestitures we have made in the past and may make in the future, as well as spin-offs in which exelis was involved, present significant risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows , which include: difficulty in identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions, including the risk that our due diligence does not identify or fully assess valuation issues, potential liabilities or other acquisition risks; difficulty and expense in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations, including combining product and service offerings, and in entering into new markets in which we are not experienced, in an efficient and cost-effective manner while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures, and the risk that we encounter significant unanticipated costs or other problems associated with integration; difficulty and expense in consolidating and rationalizing it infrastructure, which may include multiple legacy systems from various acquisitions and integrating software code; challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits expected from acquisitions; risk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the strategic acquisitions and divestitures do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; risk that we assume or retain, or that companies we have acquired have assumed or retained or otherwise become subject to, significant liabilities that exceed the limitations of any applicable indemnification provisions or the financial resources of any indemnifying parties; risk that indemnification related to businesses divested or spun off that we may be required to provide or otherwise bear may be significant and could negatively impact our business; risk of exposure to potential liabilities arising out of applicable state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws and legal distribution requirements from spin-offs in which exelis was involved, particularly exelis' spin-off of vectrus, inc. ( vectrus ) on september 27, 2014; risk that we may be responsible for u.s. federal income tax liabilities related to exelis' spin-off of vectrus if the transaction were determined to be taxable or if, in certain circumstances, subsequent significant acquisitions 18 of exelis or vectrus stock were deemed to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the vectrus spin-off; risk that we are not able to complete strategic divestitures on satisfactory terms and conditions, including non-competition arrangements applicable to certain of our business lines, or within expected timeframes; potential loss of key employees or customers of the businesses acquired or to be divested; and risk of diverting the attention of senior management from our existing operations. disputes with our subcontractors or the inability of our subcontractors to perform, or our key suppliers to timely deliver our components, parts or services, could cause our products, systems or services to be produced or delivered in an untimely or unsatisfactory manner. we engage subcontractors on many of our contracts. we may have disputes with our subcontractors, including regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor, customer concerns about the subcontract or subcontractor, our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders under a subcontract, our hiring of the personnel of a subcontractor or vice versa or the subcontractor's failure to comply with applicable law. in addition, there are certain parts, components and services for many of our products, systems and services that we source from other manufacturers or vendors. some of our suppliers, from time to time, experience financial and operational difficulties, which may impact their ability to supply the materials, components, subsystems and services that we require. our supply chain could also be disrupted by external events, such as natural disasters or other significant disruptions (including extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics, acts of terrorism, cyber attacks and labor disputes), governmental actions and legislative or regulatory changes, including product certification or stewardship requirements, sourcing restrictions, product authenticity and climate change or greenhouse gas emission standards, or availability constraints from increased demand from customers. any inability to develop alternative sources of supply on a cost-effective and timely basis could materially impair our ability to manufacture and deliver products, systems and services to our customers. we can give no assurances that we will be free from disputes with our subcontractors; material supply constraints or problems; or component, subsystems or services problems in the future. also, our subcontractors and other suppliers may not be able to acquire or maintain the quality of the materials, components, subsystems and services they supply, which might result in greater product returns, service problems and warranty claims and could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, in connection with our government contracts, we are required to procure certain materials, components and parts from supply sources approved by the u.s. government and we rely on our subcontractors and suppliers to comply with applicable laws, regulations and other requirements regarding procurement of counterfeit, unauthorized or otherwise non-compliant parts or materials, including parts or materials they supply to us, and in some circumstances, we rely on their certifications as to their compliance. from time to time, there are components for which there may be only one supplier, which may be unable to meet our needs. each of these subcontractor and supplier risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. third parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their intellectual property rights, and third parties may infringe upon our intellectual property rights. many of the markets we serve are characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights, which often has resulted in protracted and expensive litigation. third parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing or to have infringed directly or indirectly upon those intellectual property rights. claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. moreover, we may not be able to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us, or at all. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain of our products, services and solutions. our success depends in large part on our proprietary technology. we rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, know-how, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. if we fail to successfully protect and enforce these rights, our competitive position could suffer. our pending patent and trademark registration applications may not be allowed, or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents or trademark registrations. in addition, our patents may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and enforce our intellectual property rights. we may not be able to detect infringement and our competitive position may be harmed before we do so. in addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. the outcome of litigation or arbitration in which we are involved from time to time is unpredictable, and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. from time to time, we are defendants in a number of litigation matters and are involved in a number of arbitrations. these actions may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. no assurances can be given that the results of these or new matters will be favorable to us. an adverse resolution of lawsuits or arbitrations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 19 we face certain significant risk exposures and potential liabilities that may not be covered adequately by insurance or indemnity. we are exposed to liabilities that are unique to the products and services we provide. a significant portion of our business relates to designing, developing and manufacturing advanced defense, technology and communications systems and products. new technologies associated with these systems and products may be untested or unproven. components of certain of the defense systems and products we develop are inherently dangerous. failures of satellites, missile systems, air traffic control systems, electronic warfare systems, space superiority systems, c4isr systems, homeland security applications and aircraft have the potential to cause loss of life and extensive property damage. other examples of unforeseen problems that could result, either directly or indirectly, in the loss of life or property or otherwise negatively affect revenue and profitability include loss on launch of spacecraft, premature failure of products that cannot be accessed for repair or replacement, problems with quality and workmanship, country of origin, delivery of subcontractor components or services and unplanned degradation of product performance. in addition, problems and delays in development or delivery as a result of issues with respect to design, technology, licensing and patent rights, labor, learning curve assumptions or materials and components could prevent us from achieving contractual requirements. in many circumstances, we may receive indemnification from the u.s. government. we generally do not receive indemnification from foreign governments. although we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, and we may be forced to bear substantial costs from an accident or incident. it also is not possible for us to obtain insurance to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. substantial claims resulting from an incident in excess of u.s. government indemnity and our insurance coverage would harm our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. other factors that may affect revenue and profits include loss of follow-on work, and, in the case of certain contracts, liquidated damages, penalties and repayment to the customer of contract cost and fee payments we previously received. moreover, any accident or incident for which we are liable, even if fully insured, could negatively affect our standing with our customers and the public, thereby making it more difficult for us to compete effectively, and could significantly impact the cost and availability of adequate insurance in the future. changes in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. our future effective tax rate may be adversely affected by a number of factors including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not fully deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process r&amp;d and impairment of goodwill or other long-term assets in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation expense; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; changes in domestic or international tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws; and the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact our results of operations for future periods. our level of indebtedness and our ability to make payments on or service our indebtedness and our unfunded defined benefit plans liability may adversely affect our financial and operating activities or our ability to incur additional debt. at the end of fiscal 2018 , we had $3.7 billion in aggregate principal amount of outstanding debt and approximately $0.7 billion of unfunded defined benefit plans liability. in the future we may increase our borrowings; however, our ability to do so will be subject to limitations imposed on us by our debt agreements. our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness as well as any future debt that we may incur and our ability to make contributions to our unfunded defined benefit plans liability, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future from operations, financings or asset sales. our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. if we are not able to repay or refinance our debt as it becomes due or make contributions to our unfunded defined benefit plans liability, we may be forced to sell assets or take other disadvantageous actions, including reducing financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes; reducing our cash dividend rate and/or share repurchases; or dedicating an unsustainable level of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness. in addition, our ability to withstand competitive pressures and to react to changes in the defense technology industry could be impaired. the lenders who hold such debt could also accelerate amounts due, which could potentially trigger a default or acceleration of any of our other debt. a downgrade in our credit ratings could materially adversely affect our business. the credit ratings assigned to our debt securities could change based on, among other things, our results of operations, financial condition, mergers, acquisitions or dispositions. these ratings are subject to ongoing evaluation by credit rating agencies, and there can be no assurance that any rating will not be changed or withdrawn by a rating agency in the future. 20 moreover, these credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold any of our debt securities. actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under review for a downgrade or have been assigned a negative outlook, would likely increase our borrowing costs and affect our ability to incur new indebtedness or refinance our existing indebtedness, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and the market value of our common stock and outstanding debt securities. unforeseen environmental issues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operations are subject to and affected by many federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. in addition, we could be affected by future environmental laws or regulations, including, for example, new restrictions on materials used in our operations. compliance with current and future environmental laws and regulations may require significant operating and capital costs. environmental laws and regulations may authorize substantial fines and criminal sanctions as well as facility shutdowns to address violations, and may require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit emissions or discharges. we also incur, and expect to continue to incur, costs to comply with current environmental laws and regulations related to remediation of conditions in the environment. in addition, if violations of environmental laws result in us, or in one or more of our operations, being identified as an excluded party in the u.s. government's system for award management, then we or one or more of our operations would become ineligible to receive certain contracts, subcontracts and other benefits from the federal government or to perform work under a government contract or subcontract. generally, such ineligibility would continue until the basis for the listing has been appropriately addressed. developments such as the adoption of new environmental laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, violations by us of such laws and regulations, discovery of previously unknown or more extensive contamination, litigation involving environmental impacts, our inability to recover costs associated with any such developments under previously priced contracts, or financial insolvency of other responsible parties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we have significant operations in locations that could be materially and adversely impacted in the event of a natural disaster or other significant disruption. our corporate headquarters and significant business operations are located in florida, which is subject to the risk of major hurricanes. our worldwide operations and operations of our suppliers could be subject to natural disasters or other significant disruptions, including hurricanes, typhoons, tsunamis, floods, earthquakes, fires, water shortages, other extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics, acts of terrorism, power shortages and blackouts, telecommunications failures, cyber attacks and other natural and manmade disasters or disruptions. in the event of such a natural disaster or other disruption, we could experience disruptions or interruptions to our operations or the operations of our suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers or customers; destruction of facilities; and/or loss of life, all of which could materially increase our costs and expenses and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. changes in future business or other market conditions could cause business investments and/or recorded goodwill or other long-term assets to become impaired, resulting in substantial losses and write-downs that would adversely affect our results of operations. from time to time, we acquire a minority or majority interest in a business. these investments are made upon careful analysis and due diligence procedures designed to achieve a desired return or strategic objective. these procedures often involve certain assumptions and judgment in determining acquisition price. after acquisition, such assumptions and judgment may prove to have been inaccurate and unforeseen issues could arise, which could adversely affect the anticipated returns or which are otherwise not recoverable as an adjustment to the purchase price. even after careful integration efforts, actual operating results may vary significantly from initial estimates. goodwill accounted for approximately 55 percent of our recorded total assets as of june 29, 2018 . we evaluate the recoverability of recorded goodwill annually, as well as when we change reporting units and when events or circumstances indicate there may be an impairment. the impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. principally, a decrease in expected reporting unit cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill. because of the significance of our goodwill and other intangible assets, any future impairment of these assets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. for additional information on accounting policies we have in place for impairment of goodwill, see our discussion under critical accounting policies and estimates in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report and note 1: significant accounting policies and note 8: goodwill in the notes. some of our workforce is represented by labor unions, so our business could be harmed in the event of a prolonged work stoppage. approximately 600 of our u.s. employees are unionized, which represented approximately 3 percent of our employee-base at the end of fiscal 2018 . as a result, we may experience work stoppages that could adversely affect our business. we cannot predict how stable our union relationships will be or whether we will be able to successfully negotiate successor 21 collective bargaining agreements without impacting our financial condition. in addition, the presence of unions may limit our flexibility in dealing with our workforce. work stoppages could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we must attract and retain key employees, and any failure to do so could seriously harm us. our business has a continuing need to attract and retain significant numbers of skilled personnel, including personnel holding security clearances, to support our growth and to replace individuals whose employment has terminated due to retirement or other reasons. to the extent that the demand for qualified personnel exceeds supply, as has been the case from time to time in recent years, we could experience higher labor, recruiting or training costs in order to attract and retain such employees, or could experience difficulties in performing under our contracts if our needs for such employees were unmet. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 53 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, we are exposed to the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rates and changes in interest rates. we employ established policies and procedures governing the use of financial instruments to manage our exposure to such risks. for a discussion of such policies and procedures and the related risks, see financial risk management in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report, which is incorporated by reference into this item 7a. in addition, we are exposed to market return fluctuations on our defined benefit plans. a material adverse decline in the value of these assets and/or the discount rate for projected benefit obligations would result in a decrease in the funded status of the defined benefit plans, an increase in net periodic benefit cost and an increase in required funding. to protect against declines in the discount rate (i.e., interest rates), we will continue to monitor the performance of these assets and market conditions as we evaluate the amount of future contributions. for further information, see note 13: pension and other postretirement benefits in the notes, which information is incorporated by reference into this item 7a. 53risk factors 13 risk factors of this report. all forward-looking statements are qualified by, and should be read in conjunction with, those risk factors. forward-looking statements are made in reliance on the safe harbor provisions of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended (the securities act ), and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the exchange act ), and are made as of the date of filing of this report, and we disclaim any intention or obligation, other than imposed by law, to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or developments or otherwise, after the date of filing of this report or, in the case of any document incorporated by reference, the date of that document. amounts contained in this report may not always add to totals due to rounding. introductory note regarding merger involving harris corporation and l3 technologies, inc. on october 12, 2018, harris corporation, a delaware corporation ( harris ), entered into an agreement and plan of merger (the merger agreement ) with l3 technologies, inc., a delaware corporation ( l3 ), and leopard merger sub inc., a delaware corporation and a newly formed, direct wholly owned subsidiary of harris ( merger sub ), pursuant to which harris and l3 agreed to combine their respective businesses in an all-stock merger, at the closing of which merger sub would merge with and into l3, with l3 continuing as the surviving corporation and a direct wholly owned subsidiary of harris (the l3harris merger ). the closing of the l3harris merger occurred on june 29, 2019, after the end of harris' fiscal 2019 on june 28, 2019. upon completion of the l3harris merger, harris was renamed l3harris technologies, inc. ( l3harris ), and each share of l3 common stock converted into the right to receive 1.30 shares of l3harris common stock. shares of l3harris common stock, which previously traded under ticker symbol hrs on the new york stock exchange ( nyse ) prior to completion of the l3harris merger, are traded under ticker symbol lhx following completion of the l3harris merger. l3harris was owned on a fully diluted basis approximately 54 percent by harris shareholders and 46 percent by l3 shareholders immediately following the completion of the l3harris merger. applicable rules require that most of the disclosure in this annual report on form 10-k (this report ) be presented on a historical basis, as of or for the fiscal year ended june 28, 2019 (harris' fiscal 2019) or prior periods, including, for example, all or significant portions of the business description, results of operations, financial position, financial reports and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations disclosed in this report. because the l3harris merger closed after harris' fiscal 2019 ended, the disclosure in this report, including in such portions, principally relates to harris. unless the context otherwise requires, the terms we, our, us, company and l3harris as used in this report mean harris corporation and its subsidiaries when referring to periods prior to the end of fiscal 2019 (prior to the l3harris merger) and to the combined company l3harris technologies, inc., when referring to periods after the end of fiscal 2019 (after the l3harris merger). 1 part i item 1. business. l3harris general we were incorporated in delaware in 1926 as the successor to three companies founded in the 1890s. our principal executive offices are located at 1025 west nasa boulevard, melbourne, florida 32919, and our telephone number is (321) 727-9100. as noted above, our common stock is now traded under the ticker symbol lhx on the nyse, and unless the context otherwise requires, the terms we, our, us, company and l3harris as used in this report mean harris corporation and its subsidiaries when referring to periods prior to the end of fiscal 2019 (prior to the l3harris merger) and to the combined company, l3harris technologies, inc., when referring to periods after the end of fiscal 2019 (after the l3harris merger). during fiscal 2019, we operated as harris corporation, a leading technology innovator, solving customers' toughest mission-critical challenges by providing solutions that connect, inform and protect. we supported government and commercial customers in more than 100 countries, with our largest customers being various departments and agencies of the u.s. government and their prime contractors. our products, systems and services had defense and civil government applications, as well as commercial applications. as of the end of fiscal 2019 , we had approximately 18,200 employees, including approximately 8,000 engineers and scientists. as of june 28, 2019, we structured our operations primarily around the products, systems and services we sold and the markets we served, and we reported the financial results of our continuing operations in the following three reportable segments, which were also referred to as our business segments: communication systems, serving markets in tactical communications and defense products, including tactical ground and airborne radio communications solutions and night vision technology, and in public safety networks; electronic systems, providing electronic warfare, avionics, and command, control, communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance ( c4isr ) solutions for defense and classified customers and mission-critical communication systems for civil and military aviation and other customers; and space and intelligence systems, providing intelligence, space protection, geospatial, complete earth observation, universe exploration, positioning, navigation and timing ( pnt ), and environmental solutions for national security, defense, civil and commercial customers, using advanced sensors, antennas and payloads, as well as ground processing and information analytics. subsequent events as described in more detail in note 1: significant accounting policies under principles of consolidation and note 26: subsequent events in the notes to consolidated financial statements in this report (the notes ), the l3harris merger closed on june 29, 2019, after harris' fiscal 2019 ended (on june 28, 2019), and consequently, all or significant portions of the disclosure in the business description, results of operations, financial position, financial reports and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this report principally relate to harris. through fiscal 2019, our fiscal years ended on the friday nearest june 30. commencing june 29, 2019, our fiscal year will end on the friday nearest december 31, and the period commencing on june 29, 2019 will be a fiscal transition period ending on january 3, 2020 (the fiscal transition period ). our segment reporting for the fiscal transition period will be adjusted to reflect our new organizational structure announced july 1, 2019, consisting of the following four business segments: integrated mission systems, including intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance ( isr ); advanced electro optical and infrared solutions; and maritime power and navigation; space and airborne systems, including space payloads, sensors and full-mission solutions; classified intelligence and cyber defense; avionics; and electronic warfare; communication systems, including tactical communications; broadband communications; night vision; and public safety; and aviation systems, including defense aviation products; security, detection and other commercial aviation products; air traffic management; and commercial and military pilot training. these changes to our segment reporting are effective as of the beginning of the fiscal transition period and therefore do not affect the historical results, discussion or presentation of our business segments as set forth in this report. we will report our financial results consistent with this new segment reporting structure beginning with the fiscal quarter ending september 27, 2019. 2 as part of the regulatory process in connection with the l3harris merger, we entered into a definitive agreement on april 4, 2019 to sell the harris night vision business to elbit systems of america, llc, a subsidiary of elbit systems ltd., for $350 million in cash, subject to customary purchase price adjustments as set forth in the definitive agreement. the sale transaction was conditioned on completion of the l3harris merger, as well as customary closing conditions, including receipt of regulatory approvals. the harris night vision business, which is reported as part of our communication systems segment in this report, is a global supplier of high-performance, vision-enhancing products for u.s. and allied military and security forces and commercial customers. during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, we received all necessary regulatory approvals for the l3harris merger and the assets and liabilities of the harris night vision business were classified as held for sale in our consolidated balance sheet at june 28, 2019. we expect to close the sale of the harris night vision business during the third quarter of calendar year 2019 and use the proceeds from the sale to pre-fund l3harris pension plans and return cash to shareholders. financial information about our business segments financial information with respect to our business segments, including revenue, operating income and total assets, and with respect to our operations outside the united states, is contained in note 24: business segments in the notes and is incorporated herein by reference. recent divestitures the following paragraphs summarize recent divestitures. for additional information related to divestitures, some of which were reported as discontinued operations, see note 3: discontinued operations and divestitures in the notes. our historical financial results for all periods presented in this report have been restated to account for businesses reported as discontinued operations in this report. except for disclosures related to our cash flows, or unless otherwise specified, disclosures in this report relate solely to our continuing operations. divestiture of government it services business. on april 28, 2017, we completed the divestiture to an affiliate of veritas capital management, l.l.c. of our government information technology ( it ) services business ( it services ), which primarily provided it and engineering managed services to u.s. government customers, for net cash proceeds of $646 million, after transaction expenses and purchase price adjustments in respect of net cash and working capital as set forth in the definitive sale agreement. the decision to divest it services was part of our strategy to simplify our operating model to focus on technology-differentiated, high-margin businesses. it services was part of our former critical networks segment and is reported as discontinued operations in this report. in connection with entering into the definitive agreement to sell it services, as described above, our other remaining operations that had been part of our former critical networks segment, including our air traffic management ( atm ) business, primarily serving the federal aviation administration ( faa ), and our pacific missile range facility program, were integrated with our electronic systems segment effective for the third quarter of fiscal 2017, and our critical networks segment was eliminated. divestiture of harris caprock communications commercial business. on january 1, 2017, we completed the divestiture to speedcast international ltd. of our harris caprock communications commercial business ( caprock ), which provided wireless, terrestrial and satellite communications services to energy and maritime customers, for net cash proceeds of $368 million , after transaction expenses and purchase price adjustments in respect of net cash and working capital as set forth in the definitive sale agreement. the decision to divest caprock was part of our strategy to simplify our operating model to focus on technology-differentiated, high-margin businesses. caprock was part of our former critical networks segment and is reported as discontinued operations in this report. description of business by segment communication systems communication systems in fiscal 2019 served markets in tactical communications and defense products, including tactical ground and airborne radio communications solutions and night vision technology, and in public safety networks. tactical communications: we are a leading global supplier of secure radio communications, tactical communication networks and embedded high-grade encryption solutions for a diverse portfolio of u.s. military and allied international forces and commercial customers. we design, develop and manufacture a comprehensive line of current and next-generation secure and protected radio communications products and systems, with capabilities to operate across numerous radio frequency bands and using an extensive range of waveforms, making them highly flexible, interoperable and able to support diverse mission requirements. built on software-defined radio platforms that have the highest grade embedded encryption, our next-generation radios include multiband, multi-channel, multi-mission, legacy-system compatible tactical radios that address the full range of current mission and interoperability requirements and also are software upgradeable to add capabilities as new technology emerges and technical standards and mission requirements change. our radio systems have been widely deployed throughout all branches of the u.s. department of defense ( dod ) and have been sold to more than 100 countries, becoming the standard in many of those countries. supporting virtually all military 3 domains, our products encompass handheld, manpack and vehicular, fixed-site and airborne form factors and include the following: our widely deployed single channel ground and airborne radio system ( sincgars ) family of very high frequency ( vhf ) backpack, vehicle-mounted, handheld and airborne radios used by u.s. and allied military forces. our multiband manpack radio, the an/prc-117g, for narrowband and wideband communications and for which we have been providing mobile user objective system ( muos ) waveform software upgrades to enable connectivity to dod's next-generation muos satellite system; our multiband handheld radios, the an/prc-152 and an/prc-152a; our multi-channel manpack radio, the an/prc-158, which is a commercially developed radio offering two channels integrated into the same chassis; our 2-channel handheld radio, the an/prc-163, for the u.s. special operations command ( socom ) special operations forces tactical communications ( stc ) program and the u.s. army 2-channel leader radio program; our wideband rifleman team radio, the rf-330e, which is the commercially developed u.s. variant of our widely fielded international soldier personal radio; our wideband ground radio family for international customers, the rf-7850x; our wideband high frequency ( hf ) manpack radios, the rf-300h for the u.s. military and the rf-7800h for international customers, for wideband beyond-line-of-sight transmission in circumstances where satellite communication ( satcom ) is denied; our single-channel airborne radios, which include the rf-300m-dl small secure data link multiband radio and the arc-201d and arc-201e radios; and our multi-channel airborne radios, which include the rf-7850a and a 2-channel airborne radio platform we provide to viasat, inc. for the kor-24a multi-channel, link-16 small tactical terminal. we operate in this market principally on a commercial market-driven business model. we believe our business model, which drives speed and innovation, coupled with the scale provided by our international presence, will continue to make us competitive in the global market. we have been investing to position ourselves for tactical radio modernization opportunities, including in our next-generation manpack and handheld solutions for the u.s. army 2-channel leader radio program, the joint tactical radio system ( jtrs ) handheld, manpack and small form fit ( hms ) program and the socom stc program, and for opportunities in manned and unmanned airborne applications from demand to extend ground tactical networks to the air. examples of significant contract awards that drove revenue in fiscal 2017-2019 and that are expected to continue to drive revenue over the next several years include the following: a 10-year, multi-award indefinite delivery indefinite quantity ( idiq ) contract from the u.s. army in fiscal 2019 for 2-channel handheld radios under its 2-channel leader radio program a 5-year, single-award idiq contract from the u.s. navy in fiscal 2018 for hf and multiband handheld and manpack radio systems and accessories; a 5-year, sole source idiq contract from the u.s. air force in fiscal 2018 to develop and deliver handheld video data-link ( hh-vdl ) radios; a 5-year, single-award contract from the australian defence forces in fiscal 2018 for integrated network modernization; a 6-year, single-award idiq contract from socom in fiscal 2017 to supply next-generation multi-channel multiband manpack radios to enable superior communications for u.s. special operations forces; a 5-year, single-award idiq contract from the u.s. defense logistics agency in fiscal 2017 to provide tactical radio spare parts to the u.s. army and federal civilian agencies; a 10-year (5-year base, one 5-year option), multi-award idiq contract from the u.s. air force in fiscal 2017 for cryptographic and information assurance products; a 10-year (5-year base, one 5-year option), multi-award idiq contract from the u.s. army in fiscal 2016 for multi-channel manpack radios under the hms program; a 6-year, single-award idiq contract from socom in fiscal 2016 for a new integrated 2-channel handheld tactical radio; a 5-year, single-award follow-on foreign military sales idiq contract from the u.s. army communications-electronics command ( cecom ) in fiscal 2016 to supply secure tactical communication solutions; a 5-year, single-award foreign military sales idiq contract from cecom in fiscal 2016 to supply sincgars tactical solutions; and a 10-year (5-year base, one 5-year option), multi-award idiq contract from the u.s. army in fiscal 2015 for rifleman radios and associated services under the hms program. 4 public safety and professional communications: we are a global supplier of critical communication solutions offering current and next-generation public safety radios, mission-critical networks and lte-ready devices and applications for federal, state and local public safety, utility, commercial and transportation organizations. we design, build, supply and maintain wireless communications systems, including digital trunked, statewide, multi-agency systems for public safety communications and large, wide-area and multi-state land mobile radio ( lmr ) and radio frequency ( rf ) systems for some of the largest utility companies in the u.s. our voice, interoperability, data and access ( vida ) network platform is a unified ip-based voice and data communication system that provides network-level interoperable communications among public safety agencies by supporting a full line of communication systems, including association of public safety communications officials - international p25 ( p25 ) industry-wide open standard technology. our vida network solutions currently serve as the backbone in some of the largest and most advanced statewide and regional communication networks in north america. we also are investing in next-generation, secure public safety-grade long term evolution ( lte ) solutions for voice, video and data applications. we offer a full range of single-band lmr terminals, as well as multiband radios that include a handheld radio and a full-spectrum mobile radio for vehicles. our multiband, multi-mode radios cover all public safety frequency bands in a single radio that is able to communicate across multiple organizations, jurisdictions and agencies operating on different frequencies and systems. our multiband radios operate on p25 conventional and trunked systems and have a software-defined radio architecture that allows flexibility for future growth, including upgrading to p25 phase 2, the next-generation standard for mission-critical communications. our xl-200p multiband, handheld radio adds capabilities such as wifi, wifi hotspot, lte and push-to-talk voice over ip and provides first responders the ability to communicate outside of their lmr coverage jurisdiction. harris night vision: as a global supplier of high-performance, vision-enhancing products for u.s. and allied military and security forces and commercial customers, the harris night vision business designs, develops and manufactures generation 3 image intensification technology products, including ground and aviation night vision goggles and spare image intensifier tubes. as part of the regulatory process in connection with the l3harris merger, we entered into a definitive agreement on april 4, 2019 to sell the harris night vision business to elbit systems of america, llc, a subsidiary of elbit systems ltd., for $350 million in cash, subject to customary purchase price adjustments as set forth in the definitive agreement. the sale transaction was conditioned on completion of the l3harris merger, as well as customary closing conditions, including receipt of regulatory approvals. we expect to close the sale of the harris night vision business during the third quarter of calendar 2019 and use the proceeds from the sale to pre-fund l3harris pension plans and return cash to shareholders. revenue, operating income and backlog: revenue for our communication systems segment in fiscal 2019 , 2018 and 2017 was $2,177 million , $1,904 million and $1,754 million , respectively. segment operating income in fiscal 2019 , 2018 and 2017 was $654 million , $566 million and $514 million , respectively. the percentage of our revenue contributed by this segment in fiscal 2019 , 2018 and 2017 was 32 percent , 31 percent and 30 percent , respectively. the percentage of this segment's revenue in fiscal 2019 that was derived outside of the u.s. was approximately 44 percent . the percentage of this segment's revenue in fiscal 2019 that was derived from sales to u.s. government customers, including foreign military sales funded through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, was approximately 49 percent . for a general description of our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, including a discussion of revenue generated thereunder and of cost-reimbursable versus fixed-price contracts, see item 1. business - principal customers; government contracts of this report. in general, this segment's domestic products and services are sold directly to customers through its sales organization and through established distribution channels. internationally, this segment markets and sells its products and services through regional sales offices and established distribution channels. for a general description of our international business, see item 1. business - international business of this report. the funded backlog for this segment was approximately $1.7 billion and $1.5 billion at the end of fiscal 2019 and 2018 , respectively. additional information regarding funded backlog is provided under item 1. business - funded backlog of this report. for a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, see item 1. business - principal customers; government contracts, item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this report. electronic systems electronic systems in fiscal 2019 provided electronic warfare, avionics and c4isr solutions for defense and classified customers and mission-critical communication systems for civil and military aviation and other customers. many of these solutions include reliable, resilient and innovative cyber capabilities. we design, develop, produce and supply advanced electronic warfare solutions for airborne, maritime and ground applications to the u.s. military, classified customers and allied nations. our electronic warfare capabilities include threat 5 identification for situational awareness; electronic countermeasures for self-protection, whether installed as part of the platform or offboard as decoys and expendables; electronic attack; and counter-improvised explosive devices ( ieds ). we have provided electronic warfare solutions for strategic and tactical fixed-wing and rotary aircraft such as the f/a-18e/f super hornet ( f/a-18 ), f-16, b1-b, b-52, mc-130h, ac-130u, mh-60, mh-47 and cv-22 aircraft, as well as maritime electronic support measures ( esm ) for surface and subsurface vessels. in addition, we provide high-performance radar systems for defense and atm surveillance and precision approach radar. examples of our electronic warfare technology include: our advanced integrated defense electronic warfare systems ( aidews ) that provide integrated and podded self-protection and jamming; our integrated defensive electronic countermeasures ( idecm ) system for the f/a 18; our counter-radio controlled ied technology that protects ground forces in asymmetrical combat environments; our land-based surveillance radar that provides three-dimensional radar capability for airborne defensive surveillance for the u.s. navy; and our state-of-the-art wireless voice and data products and solutions. we design, test and integrate advanced avionics equipment, electronics and software, including cockpit communications, digital maps, processors, sensors, data buses, fiber optics, microelectronics and conformal wideband antennas. we supply avionics systems and products on a variety of aircraft platforms, including the f-35 lightning ii ( f-35 ) and the f/a-18. for f-35 and f/a-18 aircraft, we provide high-performance, advanced avionics such as high-speed fiber optic networking and switching, image processing, digital map software and other electronic components, including multifunction advanced data link communication subsystems primarily intended for stealth platform air-to-air communications. we are developing the open systems mission processor for the f-35 program, as well as a large military unmanned aerial vehicle ( uav ) and a new trainer aircraft. our advanced antenna technologies provide communication, navigation, direction-finding and electronic warfare capabilities for military aircraft. we design and produce aircraft carriage and release equipment and weapons interface systems for fighter jets, surveillance aircraft and uavs for the u.s. military and allied forces. our carriage and release technology (sometimes referred to as racks and launchers) allows aircraft such as the f-35, f-22 raptor, f/a-18, f-15e strike eagle, f-16 fighting falcon, p-8a poseidon and mq-9 reaper to successfully deliver mission payloads and support a variety of aircraft stores, including weapons, sonobuoys, electronics pods, fuel tanks and unmanned vehicles. our control electronics provide aircraft with the ability to communicate directly with smart and precision-guidance payloads and create compatibility between a wide range of stores and platforms. we provide c4isr solutions based on our major technology capabilities that include terrestrial satcom terminals; platform integration for battle management systems; advanced ground robotics; weapon and missile defense data-links; and naval acoustic sensors and systems. our satcom terminals connect forces with communication satellites to deliver bandwidth-intensive, mission-critical data securely and reliably, such as large satellite earth stations we developed that provide the worldwide backbone for high-priority military communications and missile defense systems and support ip and dedicated circuit connectivity within the global information grid. for battle management systems for u.s. and allied military forces, we integrate data from a variety of platforms and sensors in support of the planning and execution of operations, such as the integrated battle management system we provided to the united arab emirates ( uae ) armed forces for the emirates command &amp; control system land tactical systems ( elts ) initial operational capability program, which has transitioned from a start-up phase to a full capability phase. our advanced ground robotics capabilities include ruggedized robots with a highly intuitive control interface, haptic feedback and human-like dexterity that support isr, explosive ordnance disposal ( eod ) and hazardous material ( hazmat ) missions, such as our t7 tm robotic system we are providing to the u.k. ministry of defence for eod missions. we design, develop and maintain high-reliability, secure and customized mission-critical communication systems that involve implementing and managing large, complex programs and integrating secure, advanced, standards-based communications and information processing technologies. these systems provide communications, surveillance and information management solutions for customers, including the faa and other civil and military air navigation service providers ( ansps ), airports, airlines and system integrators. we are the prime contractor and system architect for the faa telecommunications infrastructure ( fti ) program and several major faa next generation air transportation system ( nextgen ) programs to transform and upgrade the national airspace system ( nas ), including the automatic dependent surveillance-broadcast ( ads-b ) program. under the fti program, we designed, integrated and deployed, and now are operating and maintaining, the communications infrastructure for the u.s. air traffic control ( atc ) system, which is fully operational at more than 4,400 faa sites across the u.s. providing voice, data and video communications, and we were awarded in fiscal 2019 a 5-year contract extension on the program. we were awarded in fiscal 2018 a 15-year, systems integration contract to modernize india's atm communications infrastructure. 6 revenue, operating income and backlog: revenue for our electronic systems segment in fiscal 2019 , 2018 and 2017 was $2,583 million , $2,365 million and $2,245 million , respectively. segment operating income in fiscal 2019 , 2018 and 2017 was $499 million , $432 million and $457 million , respectively. the percentage of our revenue contributed by this segment in each of fiscal 2019 , 2018 and 2017 was 38 percent . the percentages of this segment's revenue under contracts directly with end customers and under contracts with prime contractors in fiscal 2019 were approximately 65 percent and 35 percent , respectively. in fiscal 2019 , this segment had a diverse portfolio of over 250 programs. some of this segment's more significant programs in fiscal 2019 included fti, f-35, f/a-18, ads-b, u.s. army modernization of enterprise terminals ( met ), data communications integrated services ( datacomm ), cv-22, b-52 and f-16. the percentages of this segment's revenue in fiscal 2019 represented by this segment's largest program by revenue and ten largest programs by revenue were approximately 12 percent and 52 percent , respectively. the percentage of this segment's revenue in fiscal 2019 that was derived from sales to u.s. government customers, including foreign military sales funded through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, was approximately 87 percent . for a general description of our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, including a discussion of revenue generated thereunder and of cost-reimbursable versus fixed-price contracts, see item 1. business - principal customers; government contracts of this report. the funded backlog for this segment was approximately $3.0 billion and $2.6 billion at the end of fiscal 2019 and 2018 , respectively. additional information regarding funded backlog is provided under item 1. business - funded backlog of this report. for a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, see item 1. business - principal customers; government contracts, item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this report. space and intelligence systems space and intelligence systems in fiscal 2019 provided intelligence, space protection, geospatial, complete earth observation, universe exploration, pnt, and environmental solutions for national security, defense, civil and commercial customers, using advanced sensors, antennas and payloads, as well as ground processing and information analytics. many of these solutions include reliable, resilient and innovative capabilities. we develop, supply and integrate communication and information processing products, systems and networks for a diverse base of classified programs, which comprise about two-thirds of this segment's revenue. serving primarily u.s. intelligence community customers, including the national security agency ( nsa ), the national geospatial intelligence agency, the national reconnaissance office and the defense intelligence agency, we provide integrated isr solutions that improve situational awareness and intelligence value to decision makers. in addition, we have advanced capabilities in the architecture, design and development of highly specialized satellite antennas, structures, phased arrays and on-board reconfigurable processors that are used to enable next-generation satellite systems to provide the u.s. military and intelligence community with strategic and tactical advantages. our classified capabilities range from exquisite systems to small satellites and other next-generation technology. although classified programs generally are not discussed in this report, the operating results relating to classified programs are included in our consolidated financial statements. we believe that the business risks associated with our classified programs do not differ materially from the business risks associated with our other u.s. government programs. for space superiority for our dod customers, we provide enterprise architecture services that support the long-term planning, development, integration and sustainment of highly advanced, mission-critical space-based and ground-based surveillance systems for space situational awareness. we also design, integrate and sustain space control systems, such as maintaining and modernizing large radar installations globally and providing engineering support and sustainment for ground-based systems supporting space surveillance and defense missions for the u.s. air force under the system engineering and sustainment integrator ( sensor ) program. we are a leading provider of integrated real-time, autonomous geospatial solutions, ranging from advanced image and data collection sources to innovative software tools to high-volume, high-accuracy processing services, designed to aid customers in analyzing the physical environment and obtaining actionable information for more informed decisions. our specialized capabilities include highly reliable remote sensing systems for ground, air, sea and space; information processing; real-time forensic and predictive analytics; content management; and system performance modeling and simulation. we also provide ground processing and analytics solutions that map and monitor earth for a variety of government and commercial users. our complete earth observation solutions encompass comprehensive space, airborne, ground and sea remote sensing capabilities, from end-to-end remote sensing systems for global and regional situational awareness to integrated processing solutions on the ground and on airborne platforms that extract critical information and reduce time to high-confidence decisions. we specialize in remote sensing payloads that offer weather and environmental imagery, radar, video, tracking and multi-spectral information, as well as the processing, exploitation and dissemination of the data from these payloads to support our customers' missions. 7 our environmental solutions monitor and evaluate our global environment with ground-based and space-based remote sensing, change detection and data processing. we design, develop and build instruments to help measure, understand and monitor real-time weather and environmental trends to support decision making for government agencies, scientists, businesses and policy makers. for example, for the national oceanic and atmospheric administration ( noaa ) geostationary operational environmental satellite - series r ( goes-r ) ground and antenna segment weather programs, we designed, developed and delivered to noaa the ground segment system that receives and processes satellite data, generates and distributes weather data to more than 10,000 direct users, and commands and controls the goes-r satellites, and we also are supplying antennas and control systems to provide communication links for command, telemetry and sensor data, as well as the communication link to direct data users. we are a global provider of pnt products, systems and solutions. our navigation payload technology is an integral component of u.s. global positioning system ( gps ) satellites and supports gps availability, accuracy and integrity. we currently are deploying advanced technologies under the gps iii program to improve the accuracy and reliability of the next generation of gps satellites. we design, develop, manufacture and integrate agile and high-performance modular, reconfigurable space payloads that maximize mission performance, and we can help our customers achieve their space missions more quickly and cost effectively by brokering, designing and integrating multimission satellite hosted payloads. for example, we supplied aireon, llc with ads-b receiver payloads that are part of a satellite-based aircraft tracking system to enhance global atc. the payloads are hosted on the iridium next satellite constellation, and provide a capability separate from the main mission of the constellation. using our experience with hosted payloads, we have expanded into agile and resilient small satellite solutions, which we believe are aligned with the u.s. government's disaggregation and affordability initiatives. we also provide space antenna systems and precision space structures. we are an experienced space reflector manufacturer and specialize in large, high-accuracy reflectors, which can range from unfurlable and fixed-mesh reflector antennas to solid spot beam antennas and which deliver significantly higher data rates and access greater amounts of bandwidth than standard satellite antenna technologies. we also develop small, affordable, high-resolution commercial imaging systems. revenue, operating income and backlog: revenue for our space and intelligence systems segment in fiscal 2019 , 2018 and 2017 was $2,057 million , $1,913 million and $1,904 million , respectively. segment operating income in fiscal 2019 , 2018 and 2017 was $359 million , $331 million and $314 million , respectively. the percentage of our revenue contributed by this segment in fiscal 2019 , 2018 and 2017 was 30 percent , 31 percent and 32 percent , respectively. the percentages of this segment's revenue under contracts directly with end customers and under contracts with prime contractors in fiscal 2019 were approximately 68 percent and 32 percent , respectively. in fiscal 2019 , this segment had a diverse portfolio of over 200 programs. some of this segment's more significant programs in fiscal 2019 included various classified programs, sensor, goes-r enterprise ground system and cross-track infrared sounder ( cris ). the percentages of this segment's revenue in fiscal 2019 represented by this segment's largest program by revenue and ten largest programs by revenue were approximately 9 percent and 53 percent , respectively. the percentage of this segment's revenue in fiscal 2019 that was derived from sales to u.s. government customers, including foreign military sales funded through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, was approximately 94 percent . for a general description of our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, including a discussion of revenue generated thereunder and of cost-reimbursable versus fixed-price contracts, see item 1. business - principal customers; government contracts of this report. the funded backlog for this segment was approximately $1.2 billion and $1.1 billion at the end of fiscal 2019 and 2018 , respectively. additional information regarding funded backlog is provided under item 1. business - funded backlog of this report. for a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, see item 1. business - principal customers; government contracts, item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this report. new business segments following l3harris merger (effective starting with fiscal transition period) as noted above, we completed the l3harris merger on june 29, 2019, after harris' fiscal 2019 ended (on june 28, 2019). l3 was a prime contractor in isr systems, aircraft sustainment (including modifications and fleet management of special mission aircraft), simulation and training, night vision and image intensification equipment, and security and detection systems. l3 also was a leading provider of a broad range of communication, electronic and sensor systems used on military, homeland security and commercial platforms. l3 customers included the dod and its prime contractors, the u.s. intelligence community, the u.s. department of homeland security ( dhs ), foreign governments and domestic and foreign commercial customers. as a result of the l3harris merger, l3harris is an agile global aerospace and defense technology innovator, delivering end-to-end solutions that meet customers' mission-critical needs. we provide advanced defense and commercial technologies across air, land, sea, space and cyber domains. l3harris is expected to have approximately $18 billion in annualized revenue for the fiscal transition period and has approximately 50,000 employees, with customers in over 130 countries. 8 we are adjusting our segment reporting, effective starting with the fiscal transition period, to reflect our new organizational structure announced july 1, 2019 for the combined operating businesses of l3 and harris following the l3harris merger. our new structure is designed to meet customers' mission requirements and leverage our broad technical capabilities and consists of the four business segments described below. integrated mission systems provides complex isr systems for large military platforms; advanced electro-optical and infrared ( eo/ir ), laser imaging and targeting sensor systems; and electrical and electronic systems and integration for maritime power and navigation solutions for large naval platforms. integrated mission systems principally is comprised of l3 operating businesses, but includes a maritime operating business from harris' electronic systems segment for fiscal 2019. space and airborne systems provides space payloads, sensors and full-mission solutions for classified, civil and commercial customers; situational awareness, optical networks and advanced wireless solutions for classified intelligence and cyber defense; avionic sensors, hardened electronics, release systems, data links and antennas supporting fixed wing and rotary platforms; and multi-spectral situational awareness, threat warning and countermeasures capabilities for electronic warfare solutions for airborne and maritime platforms. space and airborne systems is comprised of a mix of l3 and harris operating businesses, including nearly all of the operating businesses from harris' space and intelligence systems segment for fiscal 2019 and harris' electronic systems segment for fiscal 2019, except (1) the maritime operating business noted above in the description of integrated mission systems and (2) the mission networks atm operating businesses noted below in the description of aviation systems. communication systems provides tactical radio communications, satcom terminals and battlefield management networks for u.s. and international defense customers; broadband secured mobile networked communication equipment and integration; a full suite of helmet and weapon mounted integrated night vision systems for u.s. and international customers (l3's night vision business); and radios, applications and equipment for critical public safety and professional communications. communication systems is comprised of a mix of l3 and harris operating businesses, including the tactical communications and public safety and professional communications operating businesses from harris' communication systems segment for fiscal 2019. aviation systems provides defense aviation products such as precision engagement sensors and systems, small uavs, antennas and arrays, rf amplifiers and microwave electron devices; commercial aviation products such as airport security and detection solutions and airborne avionics products (for example, traffic collision avoidance and flight recorders); mission communications and networking solutions for air traffic management for the faa and international air national service providers; and commercial and military pilot training and flight and maintenance simulation. aviation systems principally is comprised of l3 operating businesses, but includes the mission networks atm operating business from harris' electronic systems segment for fiscal 2019. international business revenue from products and services where the end consumer is located outside the u.s., including foreign military sales through the u.s. government, in fiscal 2019 , 2018 and 2017 was $1.5 billion ( 22 percent of our revenue), $1.4 billion ( 23 percent of our revenue) and $1.5 billion ( 25 percent of our revenue), respectively. most of our international sales were derived from our communication systems and electronic systems segments. direct export sales are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars, whereas sales from foreign subsidiaries are generally denominated in the local currency of the subsidiary. financial information regarding our domestic and international operations, including long-lived assets, is contained in note 24: business segments in the notes and is incorporated herein by reference. the majority of our historic international marketing activities have been conducted through subsidiaries that operated in europe, the middle east, asia, australia, canada and africa . we also have established international marketing organizations and several regional sales offices. for further information regarding our international subsidiaries, see exhibit 21 of this report. fiscal 2019 international revenue came from a large number of countries, and no single foreign country accounted for more than 5 percent of our total revenue. some of our exports are paid for by letters of credit, with the balance carried on an open account. advance payments, progress payments or other similar payments received prior to or upon shipment often cover most of the related costs incurred. significant foreign government contracts generally require us to provide performance guarantees. in order to remain competitive in international markets, we also sometimes enter into offset agreements or recourse or vendor financing arrangements to facilitate sales to certain customers. we historically have utilized indirect sales channels, including dealers, distributors and sales representatives, in the marketing and sale of some lines of products and equipment, both domestically and internationally. these independent representatives may buy for resale or, in some cases, solicit orders from commercial or government customers for direct sales by us. prices to the ultimate customer in many instances may be recommended or established by the independent representative and may be above or below our list prices. our dealers and distributors generally receive a discount from our list prices and may mark up those prices in setting the final sales prices paid by the customer. revenue from indirect sales channels 9 represented approximately 10 percent of total revenue in each of fiscal 2019 and 2018 and 11 percent of total revenue in fiscal 2017. international revenue from indirect sales channels represented approximately 37 percent , 41 percent and 31 percent of total international revenue in fiscal 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , respectively. the particular economic, social and political conditions for business conducted outside the u.s. differ from those encountered by businesses in the u.s. we believe that the overall business risk for our international business as a whole is somewhat greater than that faced by our domestic businesses as a whole. a description of the types of risks to which we are subject in our international business is contained in item 1a. risk factors of this report. in our opinion, these risks are partially mitigated by the diversification of our international business and the protection provided by letters of credit and advance payments, progress payments and other similar payments. competition we operate in highly competitive markets that are sensitive to technological advances. many of our competitors in each of our markets are larger than we are and can maintain higher levels of expenditures for research and development. in each of our markets, we concentrate on the opportunities that we believe are compatible with our resources, overall technological capabilities and objectives. principal competitive factors in these markets are product quality and reliability; technological capabilities, including reliable, resilient and innovative cyber capabilities; service; past performance; ability to develop and implement complex, integrated solutions; ability to meet delivery schedules; the effectiveness of third-party sales channels in international markets; and cost-effectiveness. we frequently partner or are involved in subcontracting and teaming relationships with companies that are, from time to time, competitors on other programs. our principal competitors include bae systems, boeing, general dynamics, lockheed martin, motorola solutions, northrop grumman, raytheon and united technologies. principal customers; government contracts the percentage of our revenue that was derived from sales to u.s. government customers, including foreign military sales funded through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, in fiscal 2019 , 2018 and 2017 was approximately 77 percent , 75 percent and 74 percent , respectively. no other customer accounted for more than 5 percent of our revenue in fiscal 2019 . additional information regarding customers for each of our segments is provided under item 1. business description of business by segment of this report. our u.s. government sales are predominantly derived from contracts with departments and agencies of, and prime contractors to, the u.s. government. most of the sales in our electronic systems and space and intelligence systems segments are made directly or indirectly to the u.s. government under contracts or subcontracts containing standard government contract clauses providing for redetermination of profits, if applicable, and for termination for the convenience of the u.s. government or for default based on performance. our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts include both cost-reimbursable and fixed-price contracts. government-wide acquisition contracts ( gwacs ) and multi-vendor idiq contracts, which can include task orders for each contract type, require us to compete both for the initial contract and then for individual task or delivery orders under such contracts. our u.s. government cost-reimbursable contracts provide for the reimbursement of allowable costs plus payment of a fee and fall into three basic types: (i) cost-plus fixed-fee contracts, which provide for payment of a fixed fee irrespective of the final cost of performance; (ii) cost-plus incentive-fee contracts, which provide for payment of a fee that may increase or decrease, within specified limits, based on actual results compared with contractual targets relating to factors such as cost, performance and delivery schedule; and (iii) cost-plus award-fee contracts, which provide for payment of an award fee determined at the customer's discretion based on our performance against pre-established performance criteria. under our u.s. government cost-reimbursable contracts, we are reimbursed periodically for allowable costs and are paid a portion of the fee based on contract progress. some overhead costs have been made partially or wholly unallowable for reimbursement by statute or regulation. examples include certain merger and acquisition costs, lobbying costs, charitable contributions, interest expense and certain litigation defense costs. our u.s. government fixed-price contracts are either firm fixed-price contracts or fixed-price incentive contracts. under our u.s. government firm fixed-price contracts, we agree to perform a specific scope of work or sell a specific product for a fixed price and, as a result, benefit from cost savings and carry the burden of cost overruns. under our u.s. government fixed-price incentive contracts, we share with the u.s. government both savings accrued for performance at less than target cost as well as costs incurred in excess of target cost up to a negotiated ceiling price, which is higher than the target cost, but carry the entire burden of costs exceeding the negotiated ceiling price. accordingly, under such incentive contracts, profit may also be adjusted up or down depending on whether specified performance objectives are met. under our u.s. government firm fixed-price and fixed-price incentive contracts, we generally receive from the u.s. government either milestone payments totaling 100 percent of the contract price or monthly progress payments in amounts equaling 80 percent of costs incurred under the contract. the remaining amounts, including profits or incentive fees, are billed upon delivery and final acceptance of end items and deliverables under the contract. our production contracts are mainly fixed-price contracts, and development contracts are generally cost-reimbursable contracts. 10 as stated above, u.s. government contracts are terminable for the convenience of the u.s. government, as well as for default based on performance. companies supplying goods and services to the u.s. government are dependent on congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of funds and may be affected by changes in u.s. government policies resulting from various military, political, economic and international developments. long-term u.s. government contracts and related orders are subject to cancellation if appropriations for subsequent performance periods become unavailable. under contracts terminable for the convenience of the u.s. government, a contractor is entitled to receive payments for its allowable costs and, in general, the proportionate share of fees or earnings for the work done. contracts that are terminable for default generally provide that the u.s. government pays only for the work it has accepted and may require the contractor to pay for the incremental cost of re-procurement and may hold the contractor liable for damages. in many cases, there is also uncertainty relating to the complexity of designs, necessity for design improvements and difficulty in forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work. under many u.s. government contracts, we are required to maintain facility and personnel security clearances complying with dod and other federal agency requirements. in addition, the u.s. government recently has increased its focus on procurement process improvement initiatives and has implemented certain changes in its procurement practices. these developments may change the way u.s. government contracts are solicited, negotiated and managed, which may affect whether and how we pursue opportunities to provide our products and services to the u.s. government, including the terms and conditions under which we do so, which may have an adverse impact to our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for example, contracts awarded under the dod's other transaction authority for research and prototypes generally require cost-sharing and may not follow, or may follow only in part, standard u.s. government contracting practices and terms, such as the federal acquisition regulation ( far ) and cost accounting standards. for further discussion of risks relating to u.s. government contracts, see item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this report. backlog total company-wide funded backlog was approximately $5.8 billion and $5.2 billion at the end of fiscal 2019 and 2018 , respectively. company-wide total backlog, including unfunded backlog, was $8.3 billion at the end of fiscal 2019. the determination of backlog involves substantial estimating, particularly with respect to customer requirements contracts and development and production contracts of a cost-reimbursable or incentive nature. the level of order activity related to u.s. government programs can be affected by timing of u.s. government funding authorizations and project evaluation cycles. year-over-year comparisons could, at times, be impacted by these factors, among others. we define funded backlog as unfilled firm orders for products and services for which funding has been authorized and, in the case of u.s. government customers, appropriated. we expect to recognize approximately half of the revenue associated with this backlog within the next twelve months and the substantial majority of the revenue associated with this backlog within the next three years . however, we can give no assurance of such fulfillment or that our funded backlog will become revenue in any particular period, if at all. backlog is subject to delivery delays and program cancellations, which are beyond our control. see note 23: backlog in the notes for additional information about total company-wide backlog. research and development company-sponsored research and development ( r&amp;d ) costs, which include r&amp;d for commercial products and services and independent r&amp;d related to government products and services, as well as concept formulation studies and technology development that occurs on certain bid and proposal efforts, in fiscal 2019 , 2018 and 2017 were approximately $331 million , $311 million and $310 million , respectively. a portion of our independent r&amp;d costs are allocated among contracts and programs in process under u.s. government contractual arrangements. company-sponsored r&amp;d costs not otherwise allocable are charged to expense when incurred. company-sponsored research is directed to the development of new products and services and to building technological capability in various markets. customer-sponsored r&amp;d costs are incurred pursuant to contractual arrangements, principally u.s. government-sponsored contracts requiring us to provide a product or service meeting certain defined performance or other specifications (such as designs). this research helps strengthen and broaden our technical capabilities. customer-sponsored research costs are accounted for principally by the cost-to-cost percentage-of-completion method and included in our revenue and cost of product sales and services. patents and other intellectual property we consider our patents and other intellectual property, in the aggregate, to constitute an important asset. we own a large portfolio of patents, trade secrets, know-how, confidential information, trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property, including reliable, resilient and innovative cyber capabilities, and we routinely apply for new patents, trademarks and copyrights. we also license intellectual property to and from third parties. as of june 28, 2019 , we held approximately 1,770 11 u.s. patents and 1,600 foreign patents, and had approximately 160 u.s. patent applications pending and 210 foreign patent applications pending. unpatented research, development and engineering skills also make an important contribution to our business. although our intellectual property rights in the aggregate are important to our business and the operations of our business segments, we do not consider our business or any business segment to be materially dependent on any single patent, license or other intellectual property right, or any group of related patents, licenses or other intellectual property rights. we are engaged in a proactive patent licensing program and have entered into a number of licenses and cross-license agreements, some of which generate royalty income. although existing license agreements have generated income in past years and may do so in the future, there can be no assurances we will enter into additional income-producing license agreements. from time to time we engage in litigation to protect our patents and other intellectual property. any of our patents, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights and other proprietary rights could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or may not provide competitive advantages. for further discussion of risks relating to intellectual property, see item 1a. risk factors of this report. with regard to certain patents, the u.s. government has an irrevocable, non-exclusive, royalty-free license, pursuant to which the u.s. government may use or authorize others to use the inventions covered by such patents. pursuant to similar arrangements, the u.s. government may consent to our use of inventions covered by patents owned by other persons. numerous trademarks used on or in connection with our products are also considered to be a valuable asset. environmental and other regulations our facilities and operations are subject to numerous domestic and international laws and regulations designed to protect the environment, particularly with regard to waste and emissions. the applicable environmental laws and regulations are common within the industries and markets in which we operate and serve. we believe that we have complied with these requirements and that such compliance has not had a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we have installed waste treatment facilities and pollution control equipment to satisfy legal requirements and to achieve our waste minimization and prevention goals. a portion of our environmental expenditures relates to businesses or operations we no longer own, but for which we have retained certain environmental liabilities. we did not spend material amounts on environmental-related capital projects in fiscal 2019 , 2018 or 2017 . based on currently available information, we do not expect capital expenditures in the fiscal transition period or over the next several years to protect the environment and to comply with current environmental laws and regulations, as well as to comply with current and pending climate control legislation, regulation, treaties and accords, to be material or to have a material impact on our competitive position or financial condition, but we can give no assurance that such expenditures will not exceed current expectations, and such expenditures may increase in future years. if future treaties, laws and regulations contain more stringent requirements than presently anticipated, actual expenditures may be higher than our present estimates of those expenditures. additional information regarding environmental and regulatory matters is set forth in item 3. legal proceedings of this report and in note 1: significant accounting policies and note 25: legal proceedings and contingencies in the notes. electronic products are subject to governmental environmental regulation in a number of jurisdictions, such as domestic and international requirements requiring end-of-life management and/or restricting materials in products delivered to customers, including the european union's directive 2012/19/eu on waste electrical and electronic equipment and directive 2011/65/eu on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment ( rohs ), as amended. other jurisdictions have adopted similar legislation. such requirements typically are not applicable to most equipment produced by our segments. we believe that we have complied with such rules and regulations, where applicable, with respect to our existing products sold into such jurisdictions. we intend to comply with such rules and regulations with respect to our future products. wireless communications, whether radio, satellite or telecommunications, are also subject to governmental regulation. equipment produced in our communication systems segment, in particular, is subject to domestic and international requirements to avoid interference among users of radio and television frequencies and to permit interconnection of telecommunications equipment. we are also required to comply with technical operating and licensing requirements that pertain to our wireless licenses and operations. we believe that we have complied with such rules and regulations and licenses with respect to our existing products and services, and we intend to comply with such rules and regulations and licenses with respect to our future products and services. governmental reallocation of the frequency spectrum also could impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. raw materials and supplies because of the diversity of our products and services, as well as the wide geographic dispersion of our facilities, we use numerous sources for the wide array of raw materials, such as electronic components, printed circuit boards, metals and plastics, needed for our operations and for our products. we are dependent on suppliers and subcontractors for a large number of components and subsystems and the ability of our suppliers and subcontractors to adhere to customer or regulatory materials restrictions and to meet performance and quality specifications and delivery schedules. in some instances, we are dependent on one or a few sources, either because of the specialized nature of a particular item or because of local content preference 12 requirements pursuant to which we operate on a given project. although we have been affected by financial and performance issues of some of our suppliers and subcontractors, we have not been materially adversely affected by the inability to obtain raw materials or products. on occasion, we have experienced component shortages from vendors as a result of natural disasters, or the rohs environmental regulations in the european union or similar regulations in other jurisdictions. these events or regulations may cause a spike in demand for certain electronic components, such as lead-free components, resulting in industry-wide supply chain shortages. as of june 28, 2019 , these component shortages have not had a material adverse effect on our business. for further discussion of risks relating to subcontractors and suppliers, see item 1a. risk factors of this report. seasonality we do not consider any material portion of our business to be seasonal. various factors can affect the distribution of our revenue between accounting periods, including the timing of contract awards and the timing and availability of u.s. government funding, as well as the timing of product deliveries and customer acceptance. employees we had approximately 18,200 employees at the end of fiscal 2019 . approximately 95 percent of our employees as of the end of fiscal 2019 were located in the u.s. a significant number of our employees possess a u.s. government security clearance. we also utilize a number of independent contractors. as of the end of fiscal 2019, approximately 630 of our u.s. employees were working under collective bargaining agreements with labor unions and worker representatives. these collective bargaining agreements will be renegotiated at various times over the next three years as they expire. we have historically renegotiated these agreements without significant disruption to operating activities. following the l3harris merger, we now have more employees working under collective bargaining agreements with labor unions and worker representatives . for certain international subsidiaries, our employees are represented by workers' councils or statutory labor unions. in general, we believe that our relations with our employees are good. website access to l3harris reports; available information general. we maintain an internet website at https://www.l3harris.com . our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to such reports, filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act, are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the u.s. securities and exchange commission ( sec ). we also will provide the reports in electronic or paper form free of charge upon request to our secretary at l3harris technologies, inc., 1025 west nasa boulevard, melbourne, florida 32919. we also make available free of charge on our website our annual report to shareholders and proxy statement. our website and the information posted thereon are not incorporated into this report or any current or other periodic report that we file with or furnish to the sec. all reports we file with or furnish to the sec also are available free of charge via the sec's electronic data gathering and retrieval, or edgar, system available through the sec's website at https://www.sec.gov. additional information relating to our business, including our business segments, is set forth in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report. corporate governance guidelines and committee charters. we previously adopted corporate governance guidelines, which are available on the corporate governance section of our website at https://www.l3harris.com/corporate-governance . in addition, the charters of each of the standing committees of our board of directors, namely, the audit committee, compensation committee, finance committee and nominating and governance committee, are also available on the corporate governance section of our website. a copy of the charters is also available free of charge upon written request to our secretary at l3harris technologies, inc., 1025 west nasa boulevard, melbourne, florida 32919. certifications. we have filed with the sec the certifications required by section 302 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 as exhibits to this report. in addition, an annual ceo certification was submitted by our chief executive officer to the nyse in november 2018 in accordance with the nyse's listing standards, which included a certification that he was not aware of any violation by l3harris of the nyse's corporate governance listing standards. item 1a. risk factors. we have described many of the trends and other factors that we believe could impact our business and future results in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report. in addition, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are subject to, and could be materially adversely affected by, various risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, those set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or our anticipated future results. 13 we depend on u.s. government customers for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of these relationships, a reduction in u.s. government funding or a change in u.s. government spending priorities could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are highly dependent on sales to u.s. government customers, primarily defense-related programs with the dod and a broad range of programs with the u.s. intelligence community and other u.s. government departments and agencies. the percentage of our revenue that was derived from sales to u.s. government customers, including foreign military sales funded through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, in fiscal 2019 , 2018 and 2017 was approximately 77 percent , 75 percent and 74 percent , respectively. therefore, any significant disruption or deterioration of our relationship with the u.s. government (in particular, the dod) would significantly reduce our revenue and have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our competitors continuously engage in efforts to expand their business relationships with the u.s. government and will continue these efforts in the future, and the u.s. government may choose to use other contractors. we expect that a majority of the business that we seek will be awarded through competitive bidding. the u.s. government has increasingly relied on certain types of contracts that are subject to multiple competitive bidding processes, including multi-vendor idiq, gwac, general services administration schedule and other multi-award contracts, which has resulted in greater competition and increased pricing pressure. we operate in highly competitive markets. many of our competitors have greater financial resources than we do and may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do in some areas. we may not be able to continue to win competitively awarded contracts or to obtain task orders under multi-award contracts. further, the competitive bidding process involves significant cost and managerial time to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us or may be split with competitors, as well as the risk that we may fail to accurately estimate the resources and costs required to fulfill any contract awarded to us. the current competitive environment has resulted in an increase of bid protests from unsuccessful bidders, which typically extends the time until work on a contract can begin. following any contract award, we may experience significant expense or delay, contract modification or contract rescission as a result of our competitors protesting or challenging contracts awarded to us in competitive bidding. our u.s. government programs must compete with programs managed by other government contractors and with other policy imperatives for consideration for limited resources and for uncertain levels of funding during the budget and appropriations process. budget and appropriations decisions made by the u.s. government are outside of our control and have long-term consequences for our business. u.s. government spending priorities and levels remain uncertain and difficult to predict and are affected by numerous factors, including sequestration (automatic, across-the-board u.s. government budgetary spending cuts) and potential alternative funding arrangements. a change in u.s. government spending priorities or an increase in non-procurement spending at the expense of our programs, or a reduction in total u.s. government spending, could have material adverse consequences on our current or future business. any inability of the u.s. government to complete its budget process for any government fiscal year and consequently having to operate on funding levels equivalent to its prior fiscal year pursuant to a continuing resolution or shut down, also could have material adverse consequences on our current or future business. for more information regarding sequestration, see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations business considerations industry-wide opportunities, challenges and risks of this report. we depend significantly on u.s. government contracts, which often are only partially funded, subject to immediate termination, and heavily regulated and audited. the termination or failure to fund, or negative audit findings for, one or more of these contracts could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. over its lifetime, a u.s. government program may be implemented by the award of many different individual contracts and subcontracts. the funding of u.s. government programs is subject to congressional appropriations. in recent years, u.s. government appropriations have been affected by larger u.s. government budgetary issues and related legislation. although multi-year contracts may be authorized and appropriated in connection with major procurements, congress generally appropriates funds on a government fiscal year basis. procurement funds are typically made available for obligation over the course of one to three years. consequently, programs often initially receive only partial funding, and additional funds are obligated only as congress authorizes further appropriations. we cannot predict the extent to which total funding and/or funding for individual programs will be included, increased or reduced as part of the annual appropriations process ultimately approved by congress and the president or in separate supplemental appropriations or continuing resolutions, as applicable. the termination of funding for a u.s. government program would result in a loss of anticipated future revenue attributable to that program, which could have an adverse impact on our operations. in addition, the termination of a program or the failure to commit additional funds to a program that already has been started could result in lost revenue and increase our overall costs of doing business. generally, u.s. government contracts are subject to oversight audits by u.s. government representatives. such audits could result in adjustments to our contract costs. any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be 14 reimbursed, and such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. we have recorded contract revenue based on costs we expect to realize upon final audit. however, we do not know the outcome of any future audits and adjustments, and we may be required to materially reduce our revenue or profits upon completion and final negotiation of audits. negative audit findings could also result in termination of a contract, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines or suspension or debarment from u.s. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. in addition, u.s. government contracts generally contain provisions permitting termination, in whole or in part, without prior notice at the u.s. government's convenience upon payment only for work done and commitments made at the time of termination. for some contracts, we are a subcontractor and not the prime contractor, and in those arrangements, the u.s. government could terminate the prime contractor for convenience without regard for our performance as a subcontractor. we can give no assurance that one or more of our u.s. government contracts will not be terminated under those circumstances. also, we can give no assurance that we would be able to procure new contracts to offset the revenue or backlog lost as a result of any termination of our u.s. government contracts. because a significant portion of our revenue is dependent on our performance and payment under our u.s. government contracts, the loss of one or more large contracts could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our u.s. government business also is subject to specific procurement regulations and a variety of socioeconomic and other requirements. these requirements, although customary in u.s. government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. these costs might increase in the future, thereby reducing our margins, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, the u.s. government has and may continue to implement initiatives focused on efficiencies, affordability and cost growth and other changes to its procurement practices. these initiatives and changes to procurement practices may change the way u.s. government contracts are solicited, negotiated and managed, which may affect whether and how we pursue opportunities to provide our products and services to the u.s. government, including the terms and conditions under which we do so, which may have an adverse impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for example, contracts awarded under the dod's other transaction authority for research and prototypes generally require cost-sharing and may not follow, or may follow only in part, standard u.s. government contracting practices and terms, such as the far and cost accounting standards. failure to comply with applicable regulations and requirements could lead to fines, penalties, repayments, or compensatory or treble damages, or suspension or debarment from u.s. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. among the causes for debarment are violations of various laws and regulations, including those related to procurement integrity, export control (including international traffic in arms regulations ( itar )), u.s. government security, employment practices, protection of the environment, accuracy of records, proper recording of costs and foreign corruption. the termination of a u.s. government contract or relationship as a result of any of these acts would have an adverse impact on our operations and could have an adverse effect on our standing and eligibility for future u.s. government contracts. the u.s. government's budget deficit and the national debt, as well as any inability of the u.s. government to complete its budget process for any government fiscal year and consequently having to shut down or operate on funding levels equivalent to its prior fiscal year pursuant to a continuing resolution, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. considerable uncertainty exists regarding how future budget and program decisions will unfold, including the defense spending priorities of the u.s. government, what challenges budget reductions will present for the defense industry and whether annual appropriations bills for all agencies will be enacted for u.s. government fiscal 2020. the u.s. government's budget deficit and the national debt could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in a number of ways, including the following: the u.s. government could reduce or delay its spending on, or reprioritize its spending away from, the government programs in which we participate; u.s. government spending could be impacted by alternate arrangements to sequestration, which increases the uncertainty as to, and the difficulty in predicting, u.s. government spending priorities and levels; and we may experience declines in revenue, profitability and cash flows as a result of reduced or delayed orders or payments or other factors caused by economic difficulties of our customers and prospective customers, including u.s. federal, state and local governments. furthermore, we believe continued budget pressures could have serious negative consequences for the security of the u.s., the defense industrial base and the customers, employees, suppliers, investors and communities that rely on companies in the defense industrial base. budget and program decisions made in this environment would have long-term implications for l3harris and the entire defense industry. we could be negatively impacted by a security breach, through cyber attack, cyber intrusion, insider threats or otherwise, or other significant disruption of our it networks and related systems or of those we operate for certain of our customers. we face the risk, as does any company, of a security breach, whether through cyber attack, cyber intrusion or insider 15 threat via the internet, malware, computer viruses, attachments to e-mails, persons inside our organization or with access to systems inside our organization, threats to the physical security of our facilities and employees or other significant disruption of our it networks and related systems or those of our suppliers or subcontractors. we face an added risk of a security breach or other significant disruption of the it networks and related systems that we develop, install, operate and maintain for certain of our customers, which may involve managing and protecting information relating to national security and other sensitive government functions or personally identifiable or protected health information. the risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, is persistent and substantial as the volume, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks, intrusions and threats from around the world remain elevated and unlikely to diminish. as an advanced technology-based solutions provider, and particularly as a government contractor with access to national security or other sensitive government information, we face a heightened risk of a security breach or disruption from threats to gain unauthorized access to our and our customers' proprietary or classified information on our it networks and related systems and to the it networks and related systems that we operate and maintain for certain of our customers. these types of information and it networks and related systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day-to-day operations, and, in some cases, are critical to the operations of certain of our customers. we make significant efforts to maintain the security and integrity of these types of information and it networks and related systems and have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption. our efforts and measures have not been entirely effective in the case of every cyber security incident, but no incident has had a material negative impact on us to date. even the most well protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because attempted security breaches, particularly cyber attacks and cyber intrusions, or disruptions will occur in the future, and because the techniques used in such attempts are constantly evolving and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed not to be detected and, in fact, may not be detected. in some cases, the resources of foreign governments may be behind such attacks due to the nature of our business and the industries in which we operate. accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures. thus, it is impossible for us to entirely mitigate this risk, and there can be no assurance that future cyber security incidents will not have a material negative impact on us. a security breach or other significant disruption involving these types of information and it networks and related systems could: disrupt the proper functioning of these networks and systems and, therefore, our operations and/or those of certain of our customers; result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of, proprietary, confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable information of ours, our customers or our employees, including trade secrets, which could be used to compete against us or for disruptive, destructive or otherwise harmful purposes and outcomes; compromise national security and other sensitive government functions; require significant management attention and resources to remedy the damages that result; result in costs which exceed our insurance coverage and/or indemnification arrangements; subject us to claims for contract breach, damages, credits, penalties or termination; and damage our reputation with our customers (particularly agencies of the u.s. government) and the general public. we must also rely on the safeguards put in place by customers, suppliers, vendors, subcontractors or other third parties to minimize the impact of cyber threats, other security threats or business disruptions. these third parties may have varying levels of cybersecurity expertise and safeguards, and their relationships with government contractors, such as l3harris, may increase the likelihood that they are targeted by the same cyber threats we face. in the event of a breach affecting these third parties, our business and financial results could suffer materially. with respect to our commercial arrangements with these third parties, we have processes designed to require that the third parties and their employees and agents agree to maintain certain standards for the storage, protection and transfer of confidential, personal and proprietary information. however, we remain at risk of a data breach due to the intentional or unintentional non-compliance by a third party's employee or agent, the breakdown of a third party's data protection processes, which may not be as sophisticated as ours, or a cyber attack on a third party's information network and systems. any or all of the foregoing could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our ability to successfully manage ongoing business and organizational changes could impact our business results. we have recently undergone several significant business and organizational changes, including the l3harris merger. in addition, competition to retain or recruit talent can be heightened during a time when we are experiencing significant changes. effectively managing these business and organizational changes is critical to retaining talent, servicing customers and our business success overall. the failure to effectively manage such changes could adversely impact our business or financial results. 16 our results of operations and cash flows are substantially affected by our mix of fixed-price, cost-plus and time-and-material type contracts. in particular, our fixed-price contracts could subject us to losses in the event of cost overruns or a significant increase in inflation. we generate revenue through various fixed-price, cost-plus and time-and-material contracts. for a general description of our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, including a discussion of revenue generated thereunder and of cost-reimbursable versus fixed-price contracts, see item 1. business - principal customers; government contracts of this report. for a description of our revenue recognition policies, see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial conditions and results of operations - critical accounting policies and estimates - revenue recognition of this report. in fiscal 2019, approximately 73 percent of harris' revenue was derived from fixed-price contracts which allow us to benefit from cost savings, but subject us to the risk of potential cost overruns, particularly for firm fixed-price contracts because we assume all of the cost burden. if our initial estimates are incorrect, we can lose money on these contracts. u.s. government contracts can expose us to potentially large losses because the u.s. government can hold us responsible for completing a project or, in certain circumstances, paying the entire cost of its replacement by another provider regardless of the size or foreseeability of any cost overruns that occur over the life of the contract. because many of these contracts involve new technologies and applications and can last for years, unforeseen events, such as technological difficulties, fluctuations in the price of raw materials, a significant increase in inflation in the u.s. or other countries, problems with our suppliers and cost overruns, can result in the contractual price becoming less favorable or even unprofitable to us over time. furthermore, if we do not meet contract deadlines or specifications, we may need to renegotiate contracts on less favorable terms, be forced to pay penalties or liquidated damages or suffer major losses if the customer exercises its right to terminate. in addition, some of our contracts have provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights, and if we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts, we may not realize their full benefits. our results of operations are dependent on our ability to maximize our earnings from our contracts. cost overruns could have an adverse impact on our financial results. the potential impact of such risk on our financial results would increase if the mix of our contracts and programs shifted toward a greater percentage of fixed-price contracts, particularly firm fixed-price contracts. in fiscal 2019, approximately 27 percent of harris' revenue was derived from cost-plus and time-and-material contracts. substantially all of our cost-plus contracts and time-and-material contracts are with u.s. government customers, while sales to foreign government and commercial customers are generally transacted under fixed-price sales arrangements and are included in our fixed-price contract sales. for a cost-plus contract, we are paid our allowable incurred costs plus a profit, which can be fixed or variable depending on the contract's fee arrangement up to predetermined funding levels established by our customers. on a time-and-material contract, we are paid on the basis of direct labor hours expended at specified fixed-price hourly rates (which include wages, overhead, allowable general and administrative expenses and profit) and materials at cost. therefore, on cost-plus and time-and-material type contracts, we do not bear the risks of unexpected cost overruns, provided that we do not incur costs that exceed the predetermined funded amounts. we use estimates in accounting for many of our programs, and changes in our estimates could adversely affect our future financial results. accounting for our contracts requires judgment relative to assessing risks, including risks associated with customer directed delays and reductions in scheduled deliveries, unfavorable resolutions of claims and contractual matters, judgments associated with estimating contract revenue and costs and assumptions for schedule and technical issues. due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenue and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. for example, we must make assumptions regarding: (i) the length of time to complete the contract because costs also include expected increases in wages and prices for materials; (ii) whether contracts should be accounted for as having one or more performance obligations based on the goods and services promised to the customer; (iii) incentives or penalties related to performance on contracts in estimating revenue and profit rates, and recording them when there is sufficient information for us to assess anticipated performance; and (iv) estimates of award fees in estimating revenue and profit rates based on actual and anticipated awards. because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes involved in accounting for our contracts, materially different amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. for additional information regarding our critical accounting policies and estimates applicable to our accounting for our contracts, see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial conditions and results of operations - critical accounting policies and estimates of this report. we derive a significant portion of our revenue from international operations and are subject to the risks of doing business internationally, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates. we are dependent on sales to customers outside the u.s. the percentage of our total revenue represented by revenue from products, systems and services where the end consumer is located outside the u.s., including foreign military sales through the u.s. government, in fiscal 2019 , 2018 and 2017 was 22 percent , 23 percent and 25 percent , respectively. approximately 18 percent of our international business in fiscal 2019 was transacted in local currency. losses resulting from currency rate 17 fluctuations can adversely affect our results. we expect that international revenue will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue. also, a significant portion of our international revenue is from, and a significant portion of our business activity is being conducted with or in, less-developed countries and sometimes countries with unstable governments, or in areas of military conflict or at military installations. other risks of doing business internationally include: currency exchange controls, fluctuations of currency and currency revaluations; the laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments relating to investments and operations, as well as u.s. laws affecting the activities of u.s. companies abroad, including the foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ); import and export licensing requirements and regulations, including itar, as well as unforeseen changes in export controls and other trade regulations; changes in regulatory requirements, including business or operating license requirements, imposition of tariffs or embargoes; uncertainties and restrictions concerning the availability of funding, credit or guarantees; risk of non-payment or delayed payment by foreign governments; contractual obligations to non-u.s. customers may include specific in-country purchases, investments, manufacturing agreements or financial or other support arrangements or obligations, known as offset obligations, that may extend over several years, may require teaming with local companies and may result in significant penalties if not satisfied; the complexity and necessity of using, and disruptions involving our, international dealers, distributors, sales representatives and consultants; the difficulties of managing a geographically dispersed organization and culturally diverse workforces, including compliance with local laws and practices; difficulties associated with repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner and changes in tax laws; uncertainties as to local laws and enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights and occasional requirements for onerous contract terms; rapid changes in government, economic and political policies, political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of international boycotts or u.s. anti-boycott legislation; and increased risk of an incident resulting in damage or destruction to our facilities or products or resulting in injury or loss of life to our employees, subcontractors or other third parties. the level of returns on defined benefit plan assets, changes in interest rates and other factors could affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future periods. a substantial portion of our current and retired employee population is covered by defined benefit pension and other postretirement defined benefit plans (collectively, defined benefit plans ). we may experience significant fluctuations in costs related to defined benefit plans as a result of macro-economic factors, such as interest rates, that are beyond our control. the cost of our defined benefit plans is incurred over long periods of time and involves various factors and uncertainties during those periods that can be volatile and unpredictable, including the rates of return on defined benefit plan assets, discount rates used to calculate liabilities and expenses, mortality of plan participants and trends for future medical costs. we develop our assumptions using relevant plan experience and expectations in conjunction with market-related data. these assumptions and other actuarial assumptions may change significantly due to changes in economic, legislative, and/or demographic experience or circumstances. our financial condition and results of operations could be materially affected by significant changes in key economic indicators, financial market volatility, future legislation and other governmental regulatory actions. we will make contributions to fund our defined benefit plans when considered necessary or advantageous to do so. the macro-economic factors discussed above, including the rates of return on defined benefit plan assets and the minimum funding requirements established by government funding or taxing authorities, or established by other agreement, may influence future funding requirements. a significant decline in the fair value of our plan assets, or other adverse changes to our overall defined benefit plans, could require us to make significant funding contributions and affect cash flows in future periods. u.s. government cost accounting standards ( cas ) govern the extent to which postretirement costs and plan contributions are allocable to and recoverable under contracts with the u.s. government. as a result, we expect to continue to seek reimbursement from the u.s. government for a portion of our postretirement costs and plan contributions; however, pension plan cost recoveries under our u.s. government contracts may occur in different periods from when those pension costs are recognized for financial statement purposes or when pension funding is made. these timing differences could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows. on december 27, 2011, the u.s. government's cost accounting standards board published a final rule that harmonizes cas pension cost reimbursement rules with the pension protection act of 2006 ( ppa ) funding requirements. the rule is expected to eventually mitigate the mismatch between cas costs and ppa-amended employee retirement income security act 18 of 1974 ( erisa ) minimum funding requirements and result in an acceleration of allowable cas pension costs as compared to the prior rules. the final rule included a five-year phase in. we anticipate that government contractors will be entitled to an equitable adjustment for any additional cas contract costs resulting from the final rule, although we can give no assurances in this regard. we may not be successful in obtaining the necessary export licenses to conduct certain operations abroad, and congress may prevent proposed sales to certain foreign governments. we must first obtain export and other licenses and authorizations from various u.s. government agencies before we are permitted to sell certain products and technologies outside of the u.s. for example, the u.s. department of state must notify congress at least 15 to 60 days, depending on the size and location of the proposed sale, prior to authorizing certain sales of defense equipment and services to foreign governments. during that time, congress may take action to block the proposed sale. we can give no assurance that we will continue to be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses or authorizations or that congress will not prevent or delay certain sales. our ability to obtain these licenses and authorizations timely or at all is subject to risks and uncertainties, including changing u.s. government policies or laws or delays in congressional action due to geopolitical and other factors. if we are not successful in obtaining or maintaining the necessary licenses or authorizations in a timely manner, our sales relating to those approvals may be reversed, prevented or delayed, and any significant impairment of our ability to sell products or technologies outside of the u.s. could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. disputes with our subcontractors or the inability of our subcontractors to perform, or our key suppliers to timely deliver our components, parts or services, could cause our products, systems or services to be produced or delivered in an untimely or unsatisfactory manner. we engage subcontractors on many of our contracts. we may have disputes with our subcontractors, including regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor, customer concerns about the subcontract or subcontractor, our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders under a subcontract, our hiring of the personnel of a subcontractor or vice versa or the subcontractor's failure to comply with applicable law. in addition, there are certain parts, components and services for many of our products, systems and services that we source from other manufacturers or vendors. some of our suppliers, from time to time, experience financial and operational difficulties, which may impact their ability to supply the materials, components, subsystems and services that we require. tariffs recently imposed on certain materials and other trade issues may create or exacerbate existing materials shortages and may result in further supplier business closures. our supply chain could also be disrupted by external events, such as natural disasters or other significant disruptions (including extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics, acts of terrorism, cyber attacks and labor disputes), governmental actions and legislative or regulatory changes, including product certification or stewardship requirements, sourcing restrictions, product authenticity and climate change or greenhouse gas emission standards, or availability constraints from increased demand from customers. any inability to develop alternative sources of supply on a cost-effective and timely basis could materially impair our ability to manufacture and deliver products, systems and services to our customers. we can give no assurances that we will be free from disputes with our subcontractors; material supply constraints or problems; or component, subsystems or services problems in the future. also, our subcontractors and other suppliers may not be able to acquire or maintain the quality of the materials, components, subsystems and services they supply, which might result in greater product returns, service problems and warranty claims and could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, in connection with our government contracts, we are required to procure certain materials, components and parts from supply sources approved by the u.s. government and we rely on our subcontractors and suppliers to comply with applicable laws, regulations and other requirements regarding procurement of counterfeit, unauthorized or otherwise non-compliant parts or materials, including parts or materials they supply to us, and in some circumstances, we rely on their certifications as to their compliance. from time to time, there are components for which there may be only one supplier, which may be unable to meet our needs. each of these subcontractor and supplier risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our reputation and ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of our employees, agents or business partners. we have implemented compliance controls, training, policies and procedures designed to prevent and detect reckless or criminal acts from being committed by our employees, agents or business partners that would violate the laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including laws governing payments to government officials, such as the fcpa, the protection of export controlled or classified information, such as itar, false claims, procurement integrity, cost accounting and billing, competition, information security and data privacy and the terms of our contracts. this risk of improper conduct may increase as we continue to grow and expand our operations. we cannot ensure, however, that our controls, training, policies and procedures will prevent or detect all such reckless or criminal acts, and we have been adversely impacted by such acts in the past. if not prevented, such reckless or criminal acts could subject us to civil or criminal investigations, monetary and non-monetary penalties and suspension and debarment by the u.s. government and could have a material adverse effect on our 19 ability to conduct business, our results of operations and our reputation. in addition, misconduct involving data security lapses resulting in the compromise of personal information or the improper use of our customer's sensitive or classified information could result in remediation costs, regulatory sanctions against us and serious harm to our reputation and could adversely impact our ability to continue to contract with the u.s. government. our future success will depend on our ability to develop new products, systems, services and technologies that achieve market acceptance in our current and future markets. our businesses are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry standards. accordingly, our performance depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: identify market needs and growth opportunities; identify emerging technological trends in our current and target markets; identify additional uses for our existing technology to address customer needs; develop and maintain competitive products, systems, services and technologies; enhance our offerings by adding innovative hardware, software or other features that differentiate our products, systems, services and technologies from those of our competitors; develop, manufacture and bring to market cost-effective offerings quickly; enhance product designs for export and releasability to international markets; and effectively structure our businesses to reflect the competitive environment, including through the use of joint ventures, collaborative agreements and other forms of alliances. we believe that, in order to remain competitive in the future, we will need to continue to design, develop, manufacture, assemble, test, market and support new products, systems, services and technologies, which will require the investment of significant financial resources. in the past, we have allocated substantial funds for such investments through customer funded and internal research and development, acquisitions or other teaming arrangements. this practice will continue to be required in the future, but we may not be able to successfully identify new opportunities and may not have the necessary financial resources to develop new products. systems, services and technologies in a timely or cost-effective manner. furthermore, the need to make these expenditures could divert our attention and resources from other projects, and we cannot be sure that these expenditures ultimately will lead to the timely development of new products, systems, services or technologies. due to the design complexity of some of our products, systems, services and technologies, we may experience delays in completing development and introducing new products, systems, services or technologies in the future. any delays could result in increased costs of development or redirect resources from other projects. in addition, we cannot provide assurances that the markets for our products, systems, services or technologies will develop as we currently anticipate, that we will be successful in newly identified markets as we currently anticipate, or that acquisitions, joint ventures or other teaming arrangements we may enter into to pursue developing new products, systems, services or technologies will be successful. the failure of our products, systems, services or technologies to gain market acceptance could significantly reduce our revenue and harm our business. furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing products, systems, services or technologies that gain market acceptance in advance of our products, systems, services or technologies, or that our competitors will not develop new products, systems, services or technologies that cause our existing products, systems, services or technologies to become non-competitive or obsolete, which could adversely affect our results of operations. the future direction of the domestic and global economies, including its impact on customer demand, also will have a significant impact on our overall performance. we participate in markets that are often subject to uncertain economic conditions, which makes it difficult to estimate growth in our markets and, as a result, future income and expenditures. we participate in u.s. and international markets that are subject to uncertain economic conditions. in particular, u.s. government spending priorities and levels remain uncertain and difficult to predict and are affected by numerous factors, including sequestration and potential alternative funding arrangements. in addition, certain of our non-u.s. customers, including in the middle east and other oil or natural gas-producing countries, could be adversely affected by weakness or volatility in oil or natural gas prices, or negative expectations about future prices or volatility, which could adversely affect demand for tactical communications, electronic systems or other products, systems, services or technologies. as a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth in the markets in which we participate. because all components of our budgeting and forecasting are dependent on estimates of growth in the markets we serve, the uncertainty renders estimates of or guidance relating to future revenue, income and expenditures even more difficult. as a result, we may make significant investments and expenditures but never realize the anticipated benefits. we cannot predict the consequences of future geo-political events, but they may adversely affect the markets in which we operate, our ability to insure against risks, our operations or our profitability. ongoing instability and current conflicts in global markets, including in the middle east and asia, and the potential for other conflicts and future terrorist activities and other recent geo-political events throughout the world, including new or 20 increased tariffs and potential trade wars and the pending voluntary exit of the united kingdom from the european union (commonly referred to as brexit ), have created economic and political uncertainties and impacts that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and profitability. these matters cause uncertainty in the world's financial and insurance markets and may significantly increase the political, economic and social instability in the geographic areas in which we operate. if credit in financial markets outside of the u.s. tightened, it could adversely affect the ability of our customers and suppliers to obtain financing and could result in a decrease in or cancellation of orders for our products, systems and services or impact the ability of our customers to make payments. these matters may cause us to incur increased costs or experience difficulty with future borrowings under our commercial paper program or credit facilities or in the debt markets, or otherwise with financing our operating, investing (including any future acquisitions) or financing activities. these matters also may cause our insurance coverages and performance bonds to increase in cost, or in some cases, to be unavailable altogether. we continue to monitor brexit and its potential impact on our results of operations and financial condition. volatility in foreign currencies is expected to occur as the united kingdom exits from the european union. if the united kingdom's membership in the european union terminates without an agreement, there could be increased costs from re-imposition of tariffs on trade between the united kingdom and european union, shipping delays because of the need for customs inspections and procedures and shortages of certain goods. the united kingdom will also need to negotiate its own tax and trade treaties with countries all over the world, which could take years to complete. this potential scenario is usually referred to as a hard brexit. in the case of a hard brexit, our exposure to disruptions to our supply chain, the imposition of tariffs and currency devaluation in the united kingdom could have an adverse impact on our consolidated revenue, earnings and cash flow. harris generated 1 percent of its fiscal 2019 net revenues in the united kingdom, and l3 generated 6 percent of its calendar year 2018 net revenues in the united kingdom. strategic transactions, including mergers, acquisitions and divestitures, involve significant risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. strategic mergers, acquisitions and divestitures we have made in the past and may make in the future present significant risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, which include: difficulty in identifying and evaluating potential mergers and acquisitions, including the risk that our due diligence does not identify or fully assess valuation issues, potential liabilities or other merger or acquisition risks; difficulty and expense in integrating newly merged or acquired businesses and operations, including combining product and service offerings, and in entering into new markets in which we are not experienced, in an efficient and cost-effective manner while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures, and the risk that we encounter significant unanticipated costs or other problems associated with integration; difficulty and expense in consolidating and rationalizing it infrastructure, which may include multiple legacy systems from various mergers and acquisitions and integrating software code; challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits expected from mergers and acquisitions; risk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the strategic mergers, acquisitions and divestitures do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; risk that we assume or retain, or that companies we have merged with or acquired have assumed or retained or otherwise become subject to, significant liabilities that exceed the limitations of any applicable indemnification provisions or the financial resources of any indemnifying parties; risk that indemnification related to businesses divested or spun off that we may be required to provide or otherwise bear may be significant and could negatively impact our business; risk that mergers, acquisitions, divestitures, spin offs and other strategic transactions, including the l3harris merger, fail to qualify for the intended tax treatment for u.s. federal income tax purposes, such as a tax-free reorganization in the case of the l3harris merger; risk that we are not able to complete strategic divestitures on satisfactory terms and conditions, including non-competition arrangements applicable to certain of our business lines, or within expected timeframes; potential loss of key employees or customers of the businesses merged with or acquired or to be divested; and risk of diverting the attention of senior management from our existing operations. the outcome of litigation or arbitration in which we are involved from time to time is unpredictable, and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the size, nature and complexity of our business make us susceptible to investigations, claims, disputes, enforcement actions, litigation and other legal proceedings, particularly those involving governments. from time to time, we are defendants in a number of litigation matters and are involved in a number of arbitration matters. these actions may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. no assurances can be given that the results of 21 these or new matters will be favorable to us. although we maintain insurance policies, these policies may not be adequate to protect us from all material judgments and expenses related to current or future claims and may not cover the conduct that is the subject of the litigation or arbitration. desired levels of insurance may not be available in the future at economical prices or at all. in addition, we believe that while we have valid defenses with respect to legal matters pending against us, the results of litigation or arbitration can be difficult to predict, including litigation involving jury trials. accordingly, our current judgment as to the likelihood of our loss (or our current estimate as to the potential range of loss, if applicable) with respect to any particular litigation or arbitration matter may be wrong. a significant judgment or arbitration award against us arising out of any of our current or future litigation or arbitration matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and future prospects. we are subject to government investigations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and future prospects. u.s. government contractors are subject to extensive legal and regulatory requirements, including itar and fcpa, and from time to time agencies of the u.s. government investigate whether we have been and are operating in accordance with these requirements. we may cooperate with the u.s. government in those investigations. under u.s. government regulations, an indictment of l3harris by a federal grand jury, or an administrative finding against us as to our present responsibility to be a u.s. government contractor or subcontractor, could result in us being suspended for a period of time from eligibility for awards of new government contracts or task orders or in a loss of export privileges, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. a conviction, or an administrative finding against us that satisfies the requisite level of seriousness, could result in debarment from contracting with the u.s. government for a specific term, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. third parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their intellectual property rights, and third parties may infringe upon our intellectual property rights. many of the markets we serve are characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights, which often has resulted in protracted and expensive litigation. our efforts to gain awards of contracts and ensure a competitive position in the market depends in part on our ability to ensure that our intellectual property is protected, that our intellectual property rights are not diluted or subject to misuse, and that we are able to license certain third party intellectual property on reasonable terms. third parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing or to have infringed directly or indirectly upon those intellectual property rights. claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. there can be no assurance that any of our patents and other intellectual property will not be challenged, invalidated, misappropriated or circumvented by third parties. moreover, we may not be able to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us, or at all. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain of our products, services and solutions. our success depends in large part on our proprietary technology. we rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, know-how, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. in addition, the laws concerning intellectual property vary among nations and the protection provided to our intellectual property by the laws and courts of foreign nations may differ from those of the u.s. if we fail to successfully protect and enforce these rights, our competitive position could suffer. our pending patent and trademark registration applications may not be allowed, or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents or trademark registrations. in addition, our patents may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and enforce our intellectual property rights. litigation to determine the scope of intellectual property rights, even if ultimately successful, could be costly and could divert management's attention away from other aspects of our business.we may not be able to detect infringement and our competitive position may be harmed before we do so. in addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. our commercial aviation products, systems and services business (a portion of l3's business prior to the l3harris merger) is affected by global demand and economic factors that could negatively impact our financial results. as a result of the l3harris merger, we now have commercial aviation products, systems and services business. the operating results of our commercial aviation products, systems and services business may be adversely affected by downturns in the global demand for air travel which impacts new aircraft production and orders, and global flying hours, which impacts air transport, regional and business aircraft utilization rates and pilot training needs. the aviation industry is highly cyclical, and the level of demand for air travel is correlated to the strength of the u.s. and international economies and is impacted by long-term trends in airline passenger and cargo traffic. the results of our commercial aviation business also depend on other factors, including general economic growth, political stability in both developed and emerging markets, pricing pressures, trends in capital goods markets and changes in original equipment manufacturer production rates. 22 we face certain significant risk exposures and potential liabilities that may not be covered adequately by insurance or indemnity. we are exposed to liabilities that are unique to the products, systems and services we provide. a significant portion of our business relates to designing, developing and manufacturing advanced defense, technology and communications systems and products. new technologies associated with these systems and products may be untested or unproven. components of certain of the defense systems and products we develop are inherently dangerous. failures of satellites, missile systems, air traffic control systems, electronic warfare systems, space superiority systems, c4isr systems, homeland security applications and aircraft have the potential to cause loss of life and extensive property damage. other examples of unforeseen problems that could result, either directly or indirectly, in the loss of life or property or otherwise negatively affect revenue and profitability include loss on launch of spacecraft, premature failure of products that cannot be accessed for repair or replacement, problems with quality and workmanship, country of origin, delivery of subcontractor components or services and unplanned degradation of product performance. in addition, problems and delays in development or delivery as a result of issues with respect to design, technology, licensing and patent rights, labor, learning curve assumptions or materials and components could prevent us from achieving contractual requirements. in many circumstances, we may receive indemnification from the u.s. government. we generally do not receive indemnification from foreign governments. although we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, and we may be forced to bear substantial costs from an accident or incident. it also is not possible for us to obtain insurance to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. substantial claims resulting from an incident in excess of u.s. government indemnity and our insurance coverage would harm our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. other factors that may affect revenue and profits include loss of follow-on work, and, in the case of certain contracts, liquidated damages, penalties and repayment to the customer of contract cost and fee payments we previously received. moreover, any accident or incident for which we are liable, even if fully insured, could negatively affect our standing with our customers and the public, thereby making it more difficult for us to compete effectively, and could significantly impact the cost and availability of adequate insurance in the future. changes in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. our future effective tax rate may be adversely affected by a number of factors including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not fully deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process r&amp;d and impairment of goodwill or other long-term assets in connection with mergers or acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation expense; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; changes in domestic or international tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws; and the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact our results of operations for future periods. our level of indebtedness and our ability to make payments on or service our indebtedness and our unfunded defined benefit plans liability may adversely affect our financial and operating activities or our ability to incur additional debt. at the end of fiscal 2019 , harris had $3.4 billion in aggregate principal amount of outstanding debt and approximately $1.2 billion of unfunded defined benefit plans liability. in addition, we assumed $3.4 billion in aggregate principal amount of outstanding debt in connection with the l3harris merger and expect our unfunded defined benefit plans liability will increase substantially when we complete our initial accounting for the l3harris merger during the fiscal transition period. in the future we may increase our borrowings; however, our ability to do so will be subject to limitations imposed on us by our debt agreements. our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness as well as any future debt that we may incur and our ability to make contributions to our unfunded defined benefit plans liability, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future from operations, financings or asset sales. our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. if we are not able to repay or refinance our debt as it becomes due or make contributions to our unfunded defined benefit plans liability, we may be forced to sell assets or take other disadvantageous actions, including reducing financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes; reducing our cash dividend rate and/or share repurchases; or dedicating an unsustainable level of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness. in addition, our ability to withstand competitive pressures and to react to changes in the defense technology industry could be impaired. the lenders who hold such debt could also accelerate amounts due, which could potentially trigger a default or acceleration of any of our other debt. 23 a downgrade in our credit ratings could materially adversely affect our business. the credit ratings assigned to our debt securities could change based on, among other things, our results of operations, financial condition, mergers, acquisitions or dispositions. these ratings are subject to ongoing evaluation by credit rating agencies, and there can be no assurance that any rating will not be changed or withdrawn by a rating agency in the future. moreover, these credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold any of our debt securities. actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under review for a downgrade or have been assigned a negative outlook, would likely increase our borrowing costs and affect our ability to incur new indebtedness or refinance our existing indebtedness, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and the market value of our common stock and outstanding debt securities. unforeseen environmental issues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operations are subject to various u.s. federal, state and local, as well as certain foreign, environmental laws and regulations within the countries in which we operate relating to the discharge, storage, treatment, handling, disposal and remediation of certain materials, substances and wastes used in our operations. in addition, we could be affected by future environmental laws or regulations, including, for example, new restrictions on materials used in our operations, or future regulations imposed or claims asserted in response to concerns over climate change, other aspects of the environment or natural resources. compliance with current and future environmental laws and regulations may require significant operating and capital costs. environmental laws and regulations may authorize substantial fines and criminal sanctions as well as facility shutdowns to address violations, and may require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit emissions or discharges. we also incur, and expect to continue to incur, costs to comply with current environmental laws and regulations related to remediation of conditions in the environment. in addition, if violations of environmental laws result in us, or in one or more of our operations, being identified as an excluded party in the u.s. government's system for award management, then we or one or more of our operations would become ineligible to receive certain contracts, subcontracts and other benefits from the federal government or to perform work under a government contract or subcontract. generally, such ineligibility would continue until the basis for the listing has been appropriately addressed. developments such as the adoption of new environmental laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, violations by us of such laws and regulations, discovery of previously unknown or more extensive contamination, litigation involving environmental impacts, our inability to recover costs associated with any such developments under previously priced contracts, or financial insolvency of other responsible parties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we have significant operations in locations that could be materially and adversely impacted in the event of a natural disaster or other significant disruption. our corporate headquarters and significant business operations are located in florida, which is subject to the risk of major hurricanes. our worldwide operations and operations of our suppliers could be subject to natural disasters or other significant disruptions, including hurricanes, typhoons, tsunamis, floods, earthquakes, fires, water shortages, other extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics, acts of terrorism, power shortages and blackouts, telecommunications failures, cyber attacks and other natural and manmade disasters or disruptions. in the event of such a natural disaster or other disruption, we could experience disruptions or interruptions to our operations or the operations of our suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers or customers; destruction of facilities; and/or loss of life, all of which could materially increase our costs and expenses and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. changes in future business or other market conditions could cause business investments and/or recorded goodwill or other long-term assets to become impaired, resulting in substantial losses and write-downs that would adversely affect our results of operations. from time to time, we acquire a minority or majority interest in a business. these investments are made upon careful analysis and due diligence procedures designed to achieve a desired return or strategic objective. these procedures often involve certain assumptions and judgment in determining acquisition price. after acquisition, such assumptions and judgment may prove to have been inaccurate and unforeseen issues could arise, which could adversely affect the anticipated returns or which are otherwise not recoverable as an adjustment to the purchase price. even after careful integration efforts, actual operating results may vary significantly from initial estimates. as of june 28, 2019, we had goodwill of $5.3 billion recorded in our consolidated balance sheet and we expect the amount of recorded goodwill and other intangible assets will increase substantially when we complete our initial accounting for the l3harris merger during the fiscal transition period. we evaluate the recoverability of recorded goodwill annually, as well as when we change reporting units and when events or circumstances indicate there may be an impairment. the impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. principally, a decrease in expected reporting unit cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill. because of the significance of our goodwill and other intangible assets, any future impairment of these assets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. for additional information on accounting 24 policies we have in place for impairment of goodwill, see our discussion under critical accounting policies and estimates in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report and note 1: significant accounting policies and note 9: goodwill in the notes. we must attract and retain key employees, and any failure to do so could seriously harm us. our future success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our management and our ability to attract and retain highly qualified management and technical personnel, including employees who have u.s. government security clearances, particularly clearances of top-secret and above. to the extent that the demand for qualified personnel exceeds supply, as has been the case from time to time in recent years, we could experience higher labor, recruiting or training costs in order to attract and retain such employees, or could experience difficulties in performing under our contracts if our needs for such employees were unmet. failure to attract and retain such personnel would damage our future prospects. some of our workforce is represented by labor unions, so our business could be harmed in the event of a prolonged work stoppage. at the end of fiscal 2019, approximately 630 of harris' u.s. employees were unionized, which represented approximately 3 percent of harris' employee-base. following the l3harris merger, we now have more employees working under collective bargaining agreements with labor unions and worker representatives . if we encounter difficulties with renegotiations or renewals of collective bargaining arrangements or are unsuccessful in those efforts, we could incur additional costs and experience work stoppages. union actions at suppliers can also affect us. we cannot predict how stable our union relationships will be or whether we will be able to successfully negotiate successor collective bargaining agreements without impacting our financial condition. in addition, the presence of unions may limit our flexibility in dealing with our workforce. work stoppages could negatively impact our ability to manufacture products or provide services on a timely basis, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. risks relating to integration following the l3harris merger we may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the l3harris merger or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected. we may also encounter significant difficulties in integrating the businesses. our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the l3harris merger will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to integrate the businesses. the combination of independent businesses is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. as a result, we will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integration activities. the integration process may disrupt the businesses and, if implemented ineffectively, could restrict the realization of the full benefits anticipated. the failure to meet the challenges involved in integrating the businesses and to realize the anticipated benefits of the l3harris merger could cause an interruption of or a loss of momentum in our activities and could adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, the overall integration may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of customer relationships, and diversion of management's attention. the difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among others: the diversion of management's attention to integration matters; difficulties in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects from the combination; difficulties in the integration of operations and systems; conforming standards, controls, procedures and accounting and other policies, business cultures and compensation structures between the companies; difficulties in the assimilation of employees; difficulties in managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complex company; difficulties in establishing effective uniform controls, systems, procedures and policies for the combined company; challenges in keeping existing customers and obtaining new customers; challenges in attracting and retaining key personnel; and coordinating a geographically dispersed organization. many of these factors will be outside of our control and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management's time and energy, which could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, even if our operations are integrated successfully, the full benefits of the l3harris merger may not be realized, including the synergies, cost savings or sales or growth opportunities that are expected. these benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all. further, additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration. all of these factors could cause dilution to our earnings per share, decrease or delay the expected benefits of the l3harris merger and negatively impact the price of our stock. as a result, we can give no assurances that the l3harris merger will result in the realization of the full benefits anticipated. 25 certain business uncertainties arising from the l3harris merger could adversely affect our businesses and operations. uncertainties about the effect of the l3harris merger on employees, customers, suppliers, business partners and other persons with whom we have a business relationship may have an adverse effect on us. during times of significant change and uncertainty such as the period following the l3harris merger, customers, suppliers, business partners and other persons with whom we have a business relationship may delay or defer business decisions, decide to terminate, modify or renegotiate their relationships with us, or take other actions as a result of the l3harris merger that could negatively affect our revenues, earnings and cash flows, as well as the market price of our securities. our ability to raise additional capital through the debt markets, and the associated borrowing costs, may also be negatively impacted. any such effects could limit our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the l3harris merger. these uncertainties about the effect of the l3harris merger may also impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel. employee retention may be challenging, as certain employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles or may be dissatisfied with their new roles. if key employees depart, our business could be materially harmed. if key employees join a competitor or form a new competitor, existing and potential clients could choose to use the products or services of that competitor instead of our products or services. we have incurred and will incur direct and indirect costs as a result of the l3harris merger. we have incurred substantial expenses in connection with completing the l3harris merger and expect to incur substantial expenses in connection with coordinating and integrating the businesses, operations, policies and procedures of the combined companies. while we have assumed that a certain level of transaction and coordination expenses will be incurred, there are a number of factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of these transaction and coordination expenses. many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately. these expenses may exceed the costs historically borne by us. these costs could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 58 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, we are exposed to the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rates and changes in interest rates. we employ established policies and procedures governing the use of financial instruments to manage our exposure to such risks. for a discussion of such policies and procedures and the related risks, see financial risk management in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report, which is incorporated by reference into this item 7a. in addition, we are exposed to market return fluctuations on our defined benefit plans. a material adverse decline in the value of these assets and/or the discount rate for projected benefit obligations would result in a decrease in the funded status of the defined benefit plans, an increase in net periodic benefit cost and an increase in required funding. to protect against declines in the discount rate (i.e., interest rates), we will continue to monitor the performance of these assets and market conditions as we evaluate the amount of future contributions. for further information, see note 14: pension and other postretirement benefits in the notes, which information is incorporated by reference into this item 7a. 58risk factors 10 risk factors of this report. all forward-looking statements are qualified by, and should be read in conjunction with, those risk factors. forward-looking statements are made in reliance on the safe harbor provisions of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended (the securities act ), and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the exchange act ), and are made as of the date of filing of this report, and we disclaim any intention or obligation, other than imposed by law, to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or developments or otherwise, after the date of filing of this report or, in the case of any document incorporated by reference, the date of that document. amounts contained in this report may not always add to totals due to rounding. l3harris merger as described in more detail in note 1: significant accounting policies under principles of consolidation and note 5: business combination in the notes to consolidated financial statements in this report (the notes ), on october 12, 2018, harris entered into an agreement and plan of merger (the merger agreement ) with l3 and leopard merger sub inc., a newly formed, direct wholly owned subsidiary of harris ( merger sub ), pursuant to which harris and l3 agreed to combine their respective businesses in an all-stock merger, at the closing of which merger sub would merge with and into l3, with l3 continuing as the surviving corporation and a direct wholly owned subsidiary of harris (the l3harris merger ). the closing of the l3harris merger occurred on june 29, 2019 ( closing date ), after the end of harris' fiscal 2019 on june 28, 2019. part i item 1. business. l3harris general we were incorporated in delaware in 1926 as the successor to three companies founded in the 1890s. our principal executive offices are located at 1025 west nasa boulevard, melbourne, florida 32919, and our telephone number is (321) 727-9100. our common stock is now traded under the ticker symbol lhx on the new york stock exchange ( nyse ), and unless the context otherwise requires, the terms we, our, us, company and l3harris as used in this report mean the combined company l3harris technologies, inc. and its subsidiaries, when referring to periods after the end of fiscal 2019 (after the l3harris merger) and mean harris and its subsidiaries when referring to periods prior to the end of fiscal 2019 (prior to the l3harris merger). l3harris technologies, inc. is an agile global aerospace and defense technology innovator, delivering end-to-end solutions that meet customers' mission-critical needs. we provide advanced defense and commercial technologies across air, land, sea, space and cyber domains. we support government and commercial customers in 130 countries, with our largest customers being various departments and agencies of the u.s. government and their prime contractors. our products, systems and services have defense and civil government applications, as well as commercial applications. as of january 3, 2020 , we had approximately 50,000 employees, including approximately 20,000 engineers and scientists. 1 we structure our operations primarily around the products, systems and services we sell and the markets we serve. we implemented a new organizational structure effective at the beginning of the fiscal transition period (as defined below), which resulted in changes to our operating segments, which are also our reportable segments and are referred to as our business segments: integrated mission systems, including multi-mission intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance ( isr ) and communication systems; integrated electrical and electronic systems for maritime platforms; and advanced electro-optical and infrared ( eo/ir ) solutions; space and airborne systems, including space payloads, sensors and full-mission solutions; classified intelligence and cyber defense; avionics; and electronic warfare; communication systems, including tactical communications; broadband communications; integrated vision solutions; and public safety; and aviation systems, including defense aviation products; security, detection and other commercial aviation products; commercial and military pilot training; and mission networks for air traffic management ( atm ). the historical results, discussion and presentation of our business segments as set forth in this report reflect the impact of these changes to our segment reporting for all periods presented in order to present segment information on a comparable basis. there is no impact on our previously reported consolidated statements of income, balance sheets, statements of cash flows or statements of equity resulting from these changes. l3harris merger as noted above and described in more detail in note 1: significant accounting policies under principles of consolidation and note 5: business combination in the notes, we completed the l3harris merger on june 29, 2019, the day after harris' fiscal 2019 ended and the first day of our fiscal transition period (as defined below). l3 was a prime contractor in isr systems, aircraft sustainment (including modifications and fleet management of special mission aircraft), simulation and training, night vision and image intensification equipment, and security and detection systems. l3 also was a leading provider of a broad range of communication, electro-optical solutions, and electronic and sensor systems used on military, homeland security and commercial platforms. l3 customers included the u.s. department of defense ( dod ) and its prime contractors, the u.s. intelligence community, the u.s. department of homeland security ( dhs ), foreign governments and domestic and foreign commercial customers. change in fiscal year through fiscal 2019, our fiscal years ended on the friday nearest june 30. commencing june 29, 2019, our fiscal year ends on the friday nearest december 31, and the period that commenced on june 29, 2019 was a fiscal transition period that ended on january 3, 2020 ( fiscal transition period ). subsequent events as described in more detail in note 28: subsequent events in the notes, on february 4, 2020, we entered into a definitive agreement under which we will sell security &amp; detection systems and macdonald humfrey automation solutions ( airport security and automation business ) to leidos, inc. for $1 billion in cash, subject to customary purchase price adjustments as set forth in the definitive agreement. the sale transaction is conditioned on customary closing conditions, including receipt of regulatory approvals. we expect the sale transaction to close in mid-2020; however, there can be no assurances that the conditions will be satisfied (or waived, if applicable) or that closing will occur in mid-2020 or at all. we intend to use the proceeds from the sale of the airport security and automation businesses to repurchase shares of our common stock. the airport security and automation business provides solutions used by the aviation and transportation industries, regulatory and customs authorities, government and law enforcement agencies and commercial and other high-security facilities. the decision to divest the airport security and automation business represented a significant milestone in our strategic priority to reshape our portfolio and focus our resources on core technologies following the l3harris merger. because the expected disposal of the airport security and automation business did not meet the held for sale criteria as of january 3, 2020, the assets and liabilities of the airport security and automation business were not classified as held for sale in our consolidated balance sheet at january 3, 2020. divestitures the following paragraphs summarize recent divestitures. for additional information related to divestitures, some of which were reported as discontinued operations, see note 3: divestitures, asset sales and discontinued operations in the notes. our historical financial results for all periods presented in this report have been restated to account for businesses reported as discontinued operations in this report. except for disclosures related to our cash flows, or unless otherwise specified, disclosures in this report relate solely to our continuing operations. divestiture of the harris night vision business. on september 13, 2019, we completed the sale of the harris night vision business to elbit systems of america, llc, a subsidiary of elbit systems ltd., for $350 million (net cash proceeds of $343 million after selling costs and estimated purchase price adjustments), subject to final customary purchase price adjustments as set forth in the definitive agreement. the harris night vision business was not included in any of the business segments in our new 2 organizational structure and the operating results of the harris night vision business through the date of the divestiture are discussed and presented as part of other non-reportable business segments in this report. divestiture of government it services business. on april 28, 2017, we completed the divestiture to an affiliate of veritas capital management, l.l.c. of our government information technology ( it ) services business ( it services ), which primarily provided it and engineering managed services to u.s. government customers, for net cash proceeds of $646 million, after transaction expenses and purchase price adjustments in respect of net cash and working capital as set forth in the definitive sale agreement. the decision to divest it services was part of our strategy to simplify our operating model to focus on technology-differentiated, high-margin businesses. it services is reported as discontinued operations in this report. divestiture of harris caprock communications commercial business. on january 1, 2017, we completed the divestiture to speedcast international ltd. of our harris caprock communications commercial business ( caprock ), which provided wireless, terrestrial and satellite communications services to energy and maritime customers, for net cash proceeds of $368 million , after transaction expenses and purchase price adjustments in respect of net cash and working capital as set forth in the definitive sale agreement. the decision to divest caprock was part of our strategy to simplify our operating model to focus on technology-differentiated, high-margin businesses. caprock is reported as discontinued operations in this report. description of business by segment our four business segments provide a wide-range of products and services to various customers and are described below. financial information with respect to our business segments, including revenue, operating income and total assets, and with respect to our operations outside the united states, is contained in note 25: business segments in the notes and is incorporated herein by reference, and for additional information with respect to our business segments, see discussion of business segment results of operations in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report. for a discussion of certain risks affecting our business segments, including risks relating to our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, see item 1. business - principal customers: government contracts, item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this report. integrated mission systems integrated mission systems segment revenue of $2,774 million for the two quarters ended january 3, 2020 , represented 30 percent of our total revenue. with a diverse portfolio of more than 300 programs, this segment is comprised of three business sectors: isr, maritime and electro optical, the principal products and services of which are described below. this segment principally consists of operating businesses acquired in the l3harris merger. isr: we develop and maintain multi-mission isr and communication systems, including fleet management support services, sensor development, modifications and periodic depot maintenance for isr and airborne missions. significant customers include dod and classified customers within the u.s. government, u.k. ministry of defence, royal australian air force and other select foreign military services. maritime: we are a manufacturer and integrator of maritime integrated command, control, communications, computers and cyber isr ( c5isr ) systems for maritime platforms, specializing in signals intelligence and multi-intelligence platforms; unmanned surface and undersea autonomous solutions; power and ship control systems and other electronic and electrical products and systems. significant customers include the u.s. navy ( usn ), the u.s. coast guard, u.s. army, allied navies, other military customers and commercial ship owners. electro optical: we design and manufacture advanced eo/ir sensors and surveillance and targeting systems and provide modernization and life extension maintenance upgrade and support services for military aircraft. significant customers include the national aeronautics space administration, dod, usn, u.s. air force ( usaf ), select foreign militaries and commercial space companies. additional information regarding the composition of integrated mission systems revenue for the two quarters ended january 3, 2020 is as follows: 75 percent was derived from sales to u.s. government customers, including foreign military sales funded through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors; 69 percent was derived from contracts under which we are the prime contractor; 17 percent was derived from products and services for which the end consumer is located outside the u.s.; and 8 percent and 44 percent was derived from this segment's largest and ten largest programs, respectively. space and airborne systems space and airborne systems segment revenue of $2,360 million for the two quarters ended january 3, 2020 , represented 25 percent of our total revenue. with a diverse portfolio of more than 300 programs, this segment is comprised of four business sectors: space, intel &amp; cyber, avionics and electronic warfare, the principal products and services of which are described below. this segment consists of a mix of operating businesses acquired in the l3harris merger and legacy harris operating businesses, 3 including nearly all of the operating businesses of our pre-merger space and intelligence systems and electronic systems segments, except: the mission networks atm operating business noted below in the description of aviation systems. space: we provide intelligence, space protection, geospatial, complete earth observation, universe exploration, positioning, navigation and timing ( pnt') and environmental solutions for national security, defense, civil and commercial customers, using advanced sensors, antennas and payloads, as well as ground processing and information analytics. many of these solutions include reliable resilient and innovative capabilities. we are a global provider of pnt products, systems and solutions. our navigation payload technology is an integral component of u.s. global positioning system ( gps ) satellites and supports gps availability, accuracy and integrity. we also provide space antenna systems and precision space structures. we are an experienced space reflector manufacturer and specialize in large, high-accuracy reflectors, which can range from unfurlable and fixed-mesh reflector antennas to solid spot beam antennas. some of the more significant programs in this sector include: system engineering and sustainment integrator ( sensor ), a program to maintain and modernize radar installations and provide engineering support and sustainment for ground-based systems for the usaf: geostationary operational environmental satellite - series r ( goes-r ), a program to design, develop and build systems to measure, understand and monitor weather and environmental trends for the u.s. national oceanic and atmospheric administration; and gps iii, a program to modernize the gps satellite system for the usaf. intel &amp; cyber: we provide situational awareness optical networks and advanced wireless solutions for classified intelligence and cyber defense. although classified programs are generally not discussed in this report, the operating results relating to classified programs are included in our consolidated financial statements in this report. we believe that the business risks associated with our classified programs do not differ materially from the business risks associated with our other u.s. government programs. avionics: we provide avionic sensors, hardened electronics, release systems, data links and antennas supporting fixed wing and rotary platforms. significant customers include military aircraft manufacturers, dod customers within the u.s. government and select foreign military services. for the f-35 lightning ii joint strike fighter ( f-35 ) and f/a-18e/f super hornet ( f/a-18 ) aircraft, we provide high-performance, advanced avionics such as high-speed fiber optic networking and switching, image processing, digital map software and other electronic components, including mulifunction advanced data link communication subsystems primarily intended for stealth platform air-to-air communications. electronic warfare: we provide multi-spectral situational awareness, threat warning and countermeasures capabilities for electronic warfare solutions for airborne and maritime platforms. significant customers include military aircraft manufacturers, dod customers within the u.s. government and select foreign military services. examples of our electronic warfare technology include: our advanced integrated defense electronic warfare systems ( aidews ) that provide integrated and podded self-protection and jamming; our integrated defensive electronic countermeasures ( idecm ) system for the f/a-18; our counter-radio controlled improvised explosive device technology that protects ground forces in asymmetrical combat environments; and our land-based surveillance radar that provides three-dimensional radar capability for airborne defensive surveillance for the usn. additional information regarding the composition of space and airborne systems revenue for the two quarters ended january 3, 2020 is as follows: 88 percent was derived from sales to u.s. government customers, including foreign military sales funded through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors; 57 percent was derived from contracts under which we are the prime contractor; 14 percent was derived from products and services for which the end consumer is located outside the u.s.; and 5 percent and 35 percent was derived from this segment's largest and ten largest programs, respectively. for a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, see item 1. business - principal customers; government contracts, item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this report. communication systems communication systems segment revenue of $2,151 million for the two quarters ended january 3, 2020 , represented 23 percent of our total revenue. this segment is comprised of four business sectors: tactical communications, broadband communications. integrated vision solutions and public safety, the principal products and services of which are described below. this segment consists of a mix of operating businesses acquired in the l3harris merger and operating businesses from our pre-merger communication systems segment. 4 tactical communications: we provide tactical radio communications, satcom terminals and battlefield management networks for u.s. and international defense customers. some of our more significant tactical radio products include: our 2-channel handheld radio, the an/prc-163, for the u.s. special operations command ( socom ) special operations forces tactical communications ( stc ) program and the u.s. army 2-channel leader radio program; our multi-channel manpack radio, the an/prc-158; our wideband high frequency ( hf ) manpack radios, the an/prc-160; and our multiband manpack radio, the an/prc-117g, for which we have been providing mobile user objective system ( muos ) waveform software upgrades to enable connectivity to dod's next-generation muos satellite system. we operate in this market principally on a commercial market-driven business model. we believe our business model, which drives speed and innovation, coupled with the scale provided by our international presence, will continue to make us competitive in the global market. broadband communications: we develop, design, manufacture and integrate broadband secured mobile networked communication equipment, including airborne, space and surface data link terminals, ground stations and transportable tactical satcom systems used on manned aircraft, unmanned aerial vehicles ( uavs ) and naval ships. significant customers include u.s. defense and intelligence agencies. integrated visions solutions: we provide a full suite of helmet and weapon mounted integrated night vision systems for u.s. and international customers. public safety: we provide radios, systems applications and equipment for critical public safety and professional communications. we design, build, supply and maintain wireless communications systems, including digital trunked, statewide, multi-agency systems for public safety communications and large, wide-area and multi-state land mobile radio ( lmr ) and radio frequency ( rf ) systems for some of the largest utility companies in the u.s. we offer a full range of single-band lmr terminals, as well as multiband radios that include a handheld radio and a full-spectrum mobile radio for vehicles. additional information regarding the composition of communication systems revenue for the two quarters ended january 3, 2020 is as follows: 69 percent was derived from sales to u.s. government customers, including foreign military sales funded through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors; 65 percent was derived from contracts under which we are the prime contractor; and 29 percent was derived from products and services for which the end consumer is located outside the u.s. aviation systems aviation systems segment revenue of $2,038 million for the two quarters ended january 3, 2020 , represented 22 percent of our total revenue. this segment is comprised of four business sectors: defense aviation products, commercial aviation products, commercial and military training and mission networks, the principal products and services of which are described below. this segment principally consists of operating businesses acquired in the l3harris merger, but includes the mission networks atm operating business from harris' former electronic systems segment. defense aviation products: we provide precision engagement sensors and systems, small uavs, antennas and arrays, rf amplifiers and microwave electronic devices. in addition, this business sector provides combat vehicle engines, transmissions and gps receivers for guided projectiles and precision munitions as well as navigation for fire control systems. significant customers include u.s. defense and foreign military agencies. commercial aviation products: we provide airport security and detection solutions, including offerings such as airport security screening solutions and threat and contraband detection and body scanning systems. in addition, we provide automation and integration services for airports, automotive manufacturing and other industries. we also provide airborne avionics products, such as traffic collision avoidance and flight recorders. significant customers include the u.s. transportation security administration, domestic and international airports and port operators, the u.s. customs and border control agency and international equivalents, commercial airplane manufacturers, commercial airlines and automotive manufacturers. on february 4, 2020, as part of our ongoing process to reshape our business portfolio to focus on technology-differentiated, high-margin businesses, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell the airport security and automation business within our commercial aviation products business sector to leidos, inc. for $1 billion in cash. see note 28: subsequent events in the notes for additional information. commercial and military training: we provide commercial and military pilot training and flight and maintenance simulation solutions to commercial airlines, aircraft manufacturers, dod and foreign military agencies. mission networks: we provide mission-critical infrastructure communications and networking solutions for atm for the u.s. federal aviation administration ( faa ) and international airspace national service providers. we are the prime contractor 5 and system architect for the faa telecommunications infrastructure ( fti ) program and several major faa next generation air transportation system ( nextgen ) programs to transform and upgrade the national airspace system ( nas ), including the automatic depend4ent surveillance-broadcast ( ads-b ) program. additional information regarding the composition of aviation systems revenue for the two quarters ended january 3, 2020 is as follows: 59 percent was derived from sales to u.s. government customers, including foreign military sales funded through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors; 61 percent was derived from contracts under which we are the prime contractor; and 26 percent was derived from products and services for which the end consumer is located outside the u.s. international business revenue from products and services where the end consumer is located outside the u.s., including foreign military sales through the u.s. government, was $2.0 billion ( 21 percent of our revenue) in the two quarters ended january 3, 2020 . revenue from products and services where the end consumer is located outside the u.s., including foreign military sales through the u.s. government, was $1.5 billion ( 22 percent of our revenue), $1.4 billion ( 23 percent of our revenue) and $1.5 billion ( 25 percent of our revenue) in fiscal 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , respectively. direct export sales are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars, whereas sales from foreign subsidiaries are generally denominated in the local currency of the subsidiary. financial information regarding our domestic and international operations, including long-lived assets, is contained in note 25: business segments in the notes and is incorporated herein by reference. the majority of our international marketing activities are conducted through subsidiaries that operate in the emea (europe, middle east and africa) and apac (asia-pacific) regions and canada . we also have established international marketing organizations and several regional sales offices. for further information regarding our international subsidiaries, see exhibit 21 of this report. international revenue for the two quarters ended january 3, 2020 came from a large number of countries, and no single foreign country accounted for more than 5 percent of our total revenue. some of our exports are paid for by letters of credit, with the balance carried on an open account. advance payments, progress payments or other similar payments received prior to or upon shipment often cover most of the related costs incurred. significant foreign government contracts generally require us to provide performance guarantees. in order to remain competitive in international markets, we also sometimes enter into offset agreements or recourse or vendor financing arrangements to facilitate sales to certain customers. we utilize indirect sales channels, including dealers, distributors and sales representatives, in the marketing and sale of some lines of products and equipment, both domestically and internationally. these independent representatives may buy for resale or, in some cases, solicit orders from commercial or government customers for direct sales by us. prices to the ultimate customer in many instances may be recommended or established by the independent representative and may be above or below our list prices. our dealers and distributors generally receive a discount from our list prices and may mark up those prices in setting the final sales prices paid by the customer. the particular economic, social and political conditions for business conducted outside the u.s. differ from those encountered by businesses in the u.s. we believe that the overall business risk for our international business as a whole is somewhat greater than that faced by our domestic businesses as a whole. a description of the types of risks to which we are subject in our international business is contained in item 1a. risk factors of this report. in our opinion, these risks are partially mitigated by the diversification of our international business and the protection provided by letters of credit and advance payments, progress payments and other similar payments. competition we operate in highly competitive markets that are sensitive to technological advances. some of our competitors in each of our markets are larger than we are and can maintain higher levels of expenditures for research and development. in each of our markets, we concentrate on the opportunities that we believe are compatible with our resources, overall technological capabilities and objectives. principal competitive factors in these markets are product quality and reliability; technological capabilities, including reliable, resilient and innovative cyber capabilities; service; past performance; ability to develop and implement complex, integrated solutions; ability to meet delivery schedules; the effectiveness of third-party sales channels in international markets; and cost-effectiveness. we frequently partner or are involved in subcontracting and teaming relationships with companies that are, from time to time, competitors on other programs. our principal competitors include bae systems, boeing, general dynamics, lockheed martin, northrop grumman, raytheon, thales and united technologies. principal customers; government contracts the percentage of our revenue that was derived from sales to u.s. government customers, including foreign military sales funded through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, was approximately 73 percent in the two quarters ended january 3, 2020 , and was approximately 77 percent , 75 percent and 74 percent in fiscal 2019 , 2018 and 2017, 6 respectively. no other customer accounted for more than 5 percent of our revenue in the two quarters ended january 3, 2020 . additional information regarding customers for each of our segments is provided under item 1. business description of business by segment of this report. our u.s. government sales are predominantly derived from contracts with departments and agencies of, and prime contractors to, the u.s. government. most of the sales in our space and airborne systems and integrated mission systems segments are made directly or indirectly to the u.s. government under contracts or subcontracts containing standard government contract clauses providing for redetermination of profits, if applicable, and for termination for the convenience of the u.s. government or for default based on performance. our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts include both cost-reimbursable and fixed-price contracts. government-wide acquisition contracts ( gwacs ) and multi-vendor indefinite duration-indefinite quantity ( idiq ) contracts, which can include task orders for each contract type, require us to compete both for the initial contract and then for individual task or delivery orders under such contracts. our u.s. government cost-reimbursable contracts provide for the reimbursement of allowable costs plus payment of a fee and fall into three basic types: (i) cost-plus fixed-fee contracts, which provide for payment of a fixed fee irrespective of the final cost of performance; (ii) cost-plus incentive-fee contracts, which provide for payment of a fee that may increase or decrease, within specified limits, based on actual results compared with contractual targets relating to factors such as cost, performance and delivery schedule; and (iii) cost-plus award-fee contracts, which provide for payment of an award fee determined at the customer's discretion based on our performance against pre-established performance criteria. under our u.s. government cost-reimbursable contracts, we are reimbursed periodically for allowable costs and are paid a portion of the fee based on contract progress. some overhead costs have been made partially or wholly unallowable for reimbursement by statute or regulation. examples include certain merger and acquisition costs, lobbying costs, charitable contributions, interest expense and certain litigation defense costs. our u.s. government fixed-price contracts are either firm fixed-price contracts or fixed-price incentive contracts. under our u.s. government firm fixed-price contracts, we agree to perform a specific scope of work or sell a specific product for a fixed price and, as a result, benefit from cost savings and carry the burden of cost overruns. under our u.s. government fixed-price incentive contracts, we share with the u.s. government both savings accrued for performance at less than target cost as well as costs incurred in excess of target cost up to a negotiated ceiling price, which is higher than the target cost, but carry the entire burden of costs exceeding the negotiated ceiling price. accordingly, under such incentive contracts, profit may also be adjusted up or down depending on whether specified performance objectives are met. under our u.s. government firm fixed-price and fixed-price incentive contracts, we generally receive from the u.s. government either milestone payments totaling 100 percent of the contract price or monthly progress payments in amounts equaling 80 percent of costs incurred under the contract. the remaining amounts, including profits or incentive fees, are billed upon delivery and final acceptance of end items and deliverables under the contract. our production contracts are mainly fixed-price contracts, and development contracts are generally cost-reimbursable contracts. as stated above, u.s. government contracts are terminable for the convenience of the u.s. government, as well as for default based on performance. companies supplying goods and services to the u.s. government are dependent on congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of funds and may be affected by changes in u.s. government policies resulting from various military, political, economic and international developments. long-term u.s. government contracts and related orders are subject to cancellation if appropriations for subsequent performance periods become unavailable. under contracts terminable for the convenience of the u.s. government, a contractor is entitled to receive payments for its allowable costs and, in general, the proportionate share of fees or earnings for the work done. contracts that are terminable for default generally provide that the u.s. government pays only for the work it has accepted and may require the contractor to pay for the incremental cost of re-procurement and may hold the contractor liable for damages. in many cases, there is also uncertainty relating to the complexity of designs, necessity for design improvements and difficulty in forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work. under many u.s. government contracts, we are required to maintain facility and personnel security clearances complying with dod and other federal agency requirements. in addition, the u.s. government recently has increased its focus on procurement process improvement initiatives and has implemented certain changes in its procurement practices. these developments may change the way u.s. government contracts are solicited, negotiated and managed, which may affect whether and how we pursue opportunities to provide our products and services to the u.s. government, including the terms and conditions under which we do so, which may have an adverse impact to our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for example, contracts awarded under the dod's other transaction authority for research and prototypes generally require cost-sharing and may not follow, or may follow only in part, standard u.s. government contracting practices and terms, such as the federal acquisition regulation ( far ) and cost accounting standards. for further discussion of risks relating to u.s. government contracts, see item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this report. 7 backlog company-wide total backlog was $20.6 billion at january 3, 2020, of which $16.2 billion was funded backlog, compared with $8.3 billion at june 28, 2019, of which $5.8 billion was funded backlog. we acquired $11.7 billion of total backlog in the l3harris merger, of which $10.3 billion was funded backlog. we expect to recognize approximately 60 percent of the revenue associated with company-wide total backlog within the next twelve months and the substantial majority of the revenue associated with company-wide total backlog within the next three years . however, we can give no assurance of such fulfillment or that our backlog will become revenue in any particular period, if at all. backlog is subject to delivery delays and program cancellations, which are beyond our control. we define funded backlog as unfilled firm orders for products and services for which funding has been authorized and, in the case of u.s. government customers, appropriated. the level of order activity related to u.s. government programs can be affected by the timing of u.s. government funding authorizations and project evaluation cycles. year-over-year comparisons could, at times, be impacted by these factors, among others. the determination of the unfunded portion of total backlog involves substantial estimating, particularly with respect to customer requirements contracts and development and production contracts of a cost-reimbursable or incentive nature. backlog information for each of our business segments is contained in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report and is incorporated herein by reference. see note 24: backlog in the notes for additional information regarding company-wide total backlog. research and development company-sponsored research and development ( r&amp;d ) costs, which include r&amp;d for commercial products and services and independent r&amp;d related to government products and services, were approximately $329 million in the two quarters ended january 3, 2020 . r&amp;d costs were approximately $331 million , $311 million and $310 million in fiscal 2019 , 2018 and 2017, respectively. a portion of our independent r&amp;d costs are allocated among contracts and programs in process under u.s. government contractual arrangements. company-sponsored r&amp;d costs not otherwise allocable are charged to expense when incurred. company-sponsored research is directed to the development of new products and services and to building technological capability in various markets. customer-sponsored r&amp;d costs are incurred pursuant to contractual arrangements, principally u.s. government-sponsored contracts requiring us to provide a product or service meeting certain defined performance or other specifications (such as designs). this research helps strengthen and broaden our technical capabilities. customer-sponsored research costs are accounted for principally by the cost-to-cost percentage-of-completion method and included in our revenue and cost of product sales and services. patents and other intellectual property we consider our patents and other intellectual property, in the aggregate, to constitute an important asset. we own a large portfolio of patents, trade secrets, know-how, confidential information, trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property, including reliable, resilient and innovative cyber capabilities, and we routinely apply for new patents, trademarks and copyrights. we also license intellectual property to and from third parties. as of january 3, 2020 , we held approximately 2,460 u.s. patents and 2,070 foreign patents, and had approximately 280 u.s. patent applications pending and 280 foreign patent applications pending. unpatented research, development and engineering skills also make an important contribution to our business. although our intellectual property rights in the aggregate are important to our business and the operations of our business segments, we do not consider our business or any business segment to be materially dependent on any single patent, license or other intellectual property right, or any group of related patents, licenses or other intellectual property rights. we are engaged in a proactive patent licensing program and have entered into a number of licenses and cross-license agreements, some of which generate royalty income. although existing license agreements have generated income in past years and may do so in the future, there can be no assurances we will enter into additional income-producing license agreements. from time to time, we engage in litigation to protect our patents and other intellectual property. any of our patents, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights and other proprietary rights could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or may not provide competitive advantages. for further discussion of risks relating to intellectual property, see item 1a. risk factors of this report. with regard to certain patents, the u.s. government has an irrevocable, non-exclusive, royalty-free license, pursuant to which the u.s. government may use or authorize others to use the inventions covered by such patents. pursuant to similar arrangements, the u.s. government may consent to our use of inventions covered by patents owned by other persons. numerous trademarks used on or in connection with our products are also considered to be a valuable asset. environmental and other regulations our facilities and operations are subject to numerous domestic and international laws and regulations designed to protect the environment, particularly with regard to waste and emissions. the applicable environmental laws and regulations are common within the industries and markets in which we operate and serve. we believe that we have complied with these requirements and that such compliance has not had a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we have 8 installed waste treatment facilities and pollution control equipment to satisfy legal requirements and to achieve our waste minimization and prevention goals. a portion of our environmental expenditures relates to businesses or operations we no longer own, but for which we have retained certain environmental liabilities. we did not spend material amounts on environmental-related capital projects in the two quarters ended january 3, 2020 or fiscal 2019 , 2018 or 2017 . based on currently available information, we do not expect capital expenditures in fiscal 2020 or over the next several years to protect the environment and to comply with current environmental laws and regulations, as well as to comply with current and pending climate control legislation, regulation, treaties and accords, to be material or to have a material impact on our competitive position or financial condition, but we can give no assurance that such expenditures will not exceed current expectations, and such expenditures may increase in future years. if future treaties, laws and regulations contain more stringent requirements than presently anticipated, actual expenditures may be higher than our present estimates of those expenditures. additional information regarding environmental and regulatory matters is set forth in item 3. legal proceedings of this report and in note 1: significant accounting policies and note 26: legal proceedings and contingencies in the notes. electronic products are subject to governmental environmental regulation in a number of jurisdictions, such as domestic and international requirements requiring end-of-life management and/or restricting materials in products delivered to customers, including the european union's directive 2012/19/eu on waste electrical and electronic equipment and directive 2011/65/eu on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment ( rohs ), as amended. other jurisdictions have adopted similar legislation. such requirements typically are not applicable to most equipment produced by our segments. we believe that we have complied with such rules and regulations, where applicable, with respect to our existing products sold into such jurisdictions. we intend to comply with such rules and regulations with respect to our future products. wireless communications, whether radio, satellite or telecommunications, are also subject to governmental regulation. equipment produced in our communication systems and space and airborne systems segments, in particular, is subject to domestic and international requirements to avoid interference among users of radio and television frequencies and to permit interconnection of telecommunications equipment. we are also required to comply with technical operating and licensing requirements that pertain to our wireless licenses and operations. we believe that we have complied with such rules and regulations and licenses with respect to our existing products and services, and we intend to comply with such rules and regulations and licenses with respect to our future products and services. governmental reallocation of the frequency spectrum could impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. raw materials and supplies because of the diversity of our products and services, as well as the wide geographic dispersion of our facilities, we use numerous sources for the wide array of raw materials, such as electronic components, printed circuit boards, metals and plastics, needed for our operations and for our products. we are dependent on suppliers and subcontractors for a large number of components and subsystems and the ability of our suppliers and subcontractors to adhere to customer or regulatory materials restrictions and to meet performance and quality specifications and delivery schedules. in some instances, we are dependent on one or a few sources, either because of the specialized nature of a particular item or because of local content preference requirements pursuant to which we operate on a given project. although we have been affected by financial and performance issues of some of our suppliers and subcontractors, we have not been materially adversely affected by the inability to obtain raw materials or products. on occasion, we have experienced component shortages from vendors as a result of natural disasters, or the rohs environmental regulations in the european union or similar regulations in other jurisdictions. these events or regulations may cause a spike in demand for certain electronic components, such as lead-free components, resulting in industry-wide supply chain shortages. as of january 3, 2020 , these component shortages have not had a material adverse effect on our business. for further discussion of risks relating to subcontractors and suppliers, see item 1a. risk factors of this report. seasonality we do not consider any material portion of our business to be seasonal. various factors can affect the distribution of our revenue between accounting periods, including the timing of contract awards and the timing and availability of u.s. government funding, as well as the timing of product deliveries and customer acceptance. employees we had approximately 50,000 employees at january 3, 2020 , approximately 86 percent of which were located in the u.s. a significant number of our employees possess a u.s. government security clearance. we also utilize a number of independent contractors. as of january 3, 2020 , approximately 3,000 of our u.s. employees were working under collective bargaining agreements with labor unions and worker representatives. these collective bargaining agreements will be renegotiated at various times over the next three years as they expire. we have historically renegotiated these agreements without significant disruption to operating activities. for certain international subsidiaries, our employees are represented by workers' councils or statutory labor unions. in general, we believe that our relations with our employees are good. 9 website access to l3harris reports; available information general. we maintain an internet website at https://www.l3harris.com . our annual reports on form 10-k, this report, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to such reports, filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act, are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the u.s. securities and exchange commission ( sec ). we also will provide the reports in electronic or paper form free of charge upon request to our secretary at l3harris technologies, inc., 1025 west nasa boulevard, melbourne, florida 32919. we also make available free of charge on our website our annual report to shareholders and proxy statement. our website and the information posted thereon are not incorporated into this report or any current or other periodic report that we file with or furnish to the sec. all reports we file with or furnish to the sec also are available free of charge via the sec's electronic data gathering and retrieval, or edgar, system available through the sec's website at https://www.sec.gov. additional information relating to our business, including our business segments, is set forth in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report. corporate governance guidelines and committee charters. we previously adopted corporate governance guidelines, which are available on the corporate governance section of our website at https://www.l3harris.com/corporate-governance . in addition, the charters of each of the standing committees of our board of directors, namely, the audit committee, compensation committee, finance committee and nominating and governance committee, are also available on the corporate governance section of our website. a copy of the charters is also available free of charge upon written request to our secretary at l3harris technologies, inc., 1025 west nasa boulevard, melbourne, florida 32919. certifications. we have filed with the sec the certifications required by section 302 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 as exhibits to this report. in addition, an annual ceo certification was submitted by our chief executive officer to the nyse in november 2019 in accordance with the nyse's listing standards, which included a certification that he was not aware of any violation by l3harris of the nyse's corporate governance listing standards. item 1a. risk factors. we have described many of the trends and other factors that we believe could impact our business and future results in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report. in addition, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are subject to, and could be materially adversely affected by, various risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, those set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or our anticipated future results. we depend on u.s. government customers for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of these relationships, a reduction in u.s. government funding or a change in u.s. government spending priorities could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are highly dependent on sales to u.s. government customers, primarily defense-related programs with the dod and a broad range of programs with the u.s. intelligence community and other u.s. government departments and agencies. the percentage of our revenue that was derived from sales to u.s. government customers, including foreign military sales funded through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, was approximately 73 percent in the two quarters ended january 3, 2020 and 77 percent , 75 percent and 74 percent in fiscal 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , respectively. therefore, any significant disruption or deterioration of our relationship with the u.s. government (in particular, the dod) would significantly reduce our revenue and have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our competitors continuously engage in efforts to expand their business relationships with the u.s. government and will continue these efforts in the future, and the u.s. government may choose to use other contractors. we expect that a majority of the business that we seek will be awarded through competitive bidding. the u.s. government has increasingly relied on certain types of contracts that are subject to multiple competitive bidding processes, including multi-vendor idiq, gwac, general services administration schedule and other multi-award contracts, which has resulted in greater competition and increased pricing pressure. we operate in highly competitive markets. some of our competitors have greater financial resources than we do and may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do in some areas. we may not be able to continue to win competitively awarded contracts or to obtain task orders under multi-award contracts. further, the competitive bidding process involves significant cost and managerial time to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us or may be split with competitors, as well as the risk that we may fail to accurately estimate the resources and costs required to fulfill any contract awarded to us. the current competitive environment has resulted in an increase of bid protests from unsuccessful bidders, which typically extends the time until work on a contract can begin. following any contract award, we may experience significant expense or delay, contract modification or contract rescission as a result of our competitors protesting or challenging contracts awarded to us in competitive bidding. 10 our u.s. government programs must compete with programs managed by other government contractors and with other policy imperatives for consideration for limited resources and for uncertain levels of funding during the budget and appropriations process. budget and appropriations decisions made by the u.s. government are outside of our control and have long-term consequences for our business. u.s. government spending priorities and levels remain uncertain and difficult to predict and are affected by numerous factors, including sequestration (automatic, across-the-board u.s. government budgetary spending cuts) and potential alternative funding arrangements. a change in u.s. government spending priorities or an increase in non-procurement spending at the expense of our programs, or a reduction in total u.s. government spending, could have material adverse consequences on our current or future business. any inability of the u.s. government to complete its budget process for any government fiscal year and consequently having to operate on funding levels equivalent to its prior fiscal year pursuant to a continuing resolution or shut down also could have material adverse consequences on our current or future business. for more information regarding sequestration, see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations business considerations industry-wide opportunities, challenges and risks of this report. we depend significantly on u.s. government contracts, which often are only partially funded, subject to immediate termination, and heavily regulated and audited. the termination or failure to fund, or negative audit findings for, one or more of these contracts could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. over its lifetime, a u.s. government program may be implemented by the award of many different individual contracts and subcontracts. the funding of u.s. government programs is subject to congressional appropriations. in recent years, u.s. government appropriations have been affected by larger u.s. government budgetary issues and related legislation. although multi-year contracts may be authorized and appropriated in connection with major procurements, congress generally appropriates funds on a government fiscal year basis. procurement funds are typically made available for obligation over the course of one to three years. consequently, programs often initially receive only partial funding, and additional funds are obligated only as congress authorizes further appropriations. we cannot predict the extent to which total funding and/or funding for individual programs will be included, increased or reduced as part of the annual appropriations process ultimately approved by congress and the president or in separate supplemental appropriations or continuing resolutions, as applicable. the termination of funding for a u.s. government program would result in a loss of anticipated future revenue attributable to that program, which could have an adverse impact on our operations. in addition, the termination of a program or the failure to commit additional funds to a program that already has been started could result in lost revenue and increase our overall costs of doing business. generally, u.s. government contracts are subject to oversight audits by u.s. government representatives. such audits could result in adjustments to our contract costs. any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, and such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. we have recorded contract revenue based on costs we expect to realize upon final audit. however, we do not know the outcome of any future audits and adjustments, and we may be required to materially reduce our revenue or profits upon completion and final negotiation of audits. negative audit findings could also result in termination of a contract, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines or suspension or debarment from u.s. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. in addition, u.s. government contracts generally contain provisions permitting termination, in whole or in part, without prior notice at the u.s. government's convenience upon payment only for work done and commitments made at the time of termination. for some contracts, we are a subcontractor and not the prime contractor, and in those arrangements, the u.s. government could terminate the prime contractor for convenience without regard for our performance as a subcontractor. we can give no assurance that one or more of our u.s. government contracts will not be terminated under those circumstances. also, we can give no assurance that we would be able to procure new contracts to offset the revenue or backlog lost as a result of any termination of our u.s. government contracts. because a significant portion of our revenue is dependent on our performance and payment under our u.s. government contracts, the loss of one or more large contracts could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our u.s. government business also is subject to specific procurement regulations and a variety of socioeconomic and other requirements. these requirements, although customary in u.s. government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. these costs might increase in the future, thereby reducing our margins, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, the u.s. government has and may continue to implement initiatives focused on efficiencies, affordability and cost growth and other changes to its procurement practices. these initiatives and changes to procurement practices may change the way u.s. government contracts are solicited, negotiated and managed, which may affect whether and how we pursue opportunities to provide our products and services to the u.s. government, including the terms and conditions under which we do so, which may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for example, contracts awarded under the dod's other transaction authority for research and prototypes generally require cost-sharing and may not follow, or may follow only in part, standard u.s. government contracting practices and terms, such as the far and cost accounting standards. 11 failure to comply with applicable regulations and requirements could lead to fines, penalties, repayments, or compensatory or treble damages, or suspension or debarment from u.s. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. among the causes for debarment are violations of various laws and regulations, including those related to procurement integrity, export control (including international traffic in arms regulations ( itar )), u.s. government security, employment practices, protection of the environment, accuracy of records, proper recording of costs and foreign corruption. the termination of a u.s. government contract or relationship as a result of any of these acts would have an adverse impact on our operations and could have an adverse effect on our standing and eligibility for future u.s. government contracts. the u.s. government's budget deficit and the national debt, as well as any inability of the u.s. government to complete its budget process for any government fiscal year and consequently having to shut down or operate on funding levels equivalent to its prior fiscal year pursuant to a continuing resolution, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. considerable uncertainty exists regarding how future budget and program decisions will unfold, including the defense spending priorities of the u.s. government, what challenges budget reductions will present for the defense industry and whether annual appropriations bills for all agencies will be enacted for u.s. government fiscal 2021 and thereafter. the u.s. government's budget deficit and the national debt could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in a number of ways, including the following: the u.s. government could reduce or delay its spending on, or reprioritize its spending away from, the government programs in which we participate; u.s. government spending could be impacted by alternate arrangements to sequestration, which increases the uncertainty as to, and the difficulty in predicting, u.s. government spending priorities and levels; and we may experience declines in revenue, profitability and cash flows as a result of reduced or delayed orders or payments or other factors caused by economic difficulties of our customers and prospective customers, including u.s. federal, state and local governments. furthermore, we believe continued budget pressures could have serious negative consequences for the security of the u.s., the defense industrial base and the customers, employees, suppliers, investors and communities that rely on companies in the defense industrial base. budget and program decisions made in this environment would have long-term implications for l3harris and the entire defense industry. we could be negatively impacted by a security breach, through cyber attack, cyber intrusion, insider threats or otherwise, or other significant disruption of our it networks and related systems or of those we operate for certain of our customers. we face the risk, as does any company, of a security breach, whether through cyber attack, cyber intrusion or insider threat via the internet, malware, computer viruses, attachments to e-mails, persons inside our organization or with access to systems inside our organization, threats to the physical security of our facilities and employees or other significant disruption of our it networks and related systems or those of our suppliers or subcontractors. we face an added risk of a security breach or other significant disruption of the it networks and related systems that we develop, install, operate and maintain for certain of our customers, which may involve managing and protecting information relating to national security and other sensitive government functions or personally identifiable or protected health information. the risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, is persistent and substantial as the volume, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks, intrusions and threats from around the world remain elevated and unlikely to diminish. as an advanced technology-based solutions provider, and particularly as a government contractor with access to national security or other sensitive government information, we face a heightened risk of a security breach or disruption from threats to gain unauthorized access to our and our customers' proprietary or classified information on our it networks and related systems and to the it networks and related systems that we operate and maintain for certain of our customers. these types of information and it networks and related systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day-to-day operations, and, in some cases, are critical to the operations of certain of our customers. we make significant efforts to maintain the security and integrity of these types of information and it networks and related systems and have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption. our efforts and measures have not been entirely effective in the case of every cyber security incident, but no incident has had a material negative impact on us to date. even the most well protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because attempted security breaches, particularly cyber attacks and cyber intrusions, or disruptions will occur in the future, and because the techniques used in such attempts are constantly evolving and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed not to be detected and, in fact, may not be detected. in some cases, the resources of foreign governments may be behind such attacks due to the nature of our business and the industries in which we operate. accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures. thus, it is impossible for us to entirely mitigate this risk, and there can be no assurance that future cyber security incidents will not have a material negative impact on us. a security breach or other significant disruption involving these types of information and it networks and related systems could: 12 disrupt the proper functioning of these networks and systems and, therefore, our operations and/or those of certain of our customers; result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of, proprietary, confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable information of ours, our customers or our employees, including trade secrets, which could be used to compete against us or for disruptive, destructive or otherwise harmful purposes and outcomes; compromise national security and other sensitive government functions; require significant management attention and resources to remedy the damages that result; result in costs which exceed our insurance coverage and/or indemnification arrangements; subject us to claims for contract breach, damages, credits, penalties or termination; and damage our reputation with our customers (particularly agencies of the u.s. government) and the general public. we must also rely on the safeguards put in place by customers, suppliers, vendors, subcontractors or other third parties to minimize the impact of cyber threats, other security threats or business disruptions. these third parties may have varying levels of cybersecurity expertise and safeguards, and their relationships with government contractors, such as l3harris, may increase the likelihood that they are targeted by the same cyber threats we face. in the event of a breach affecting these third parties, our business and financial results could suffer materially. with respect to our commercial arrangements with these third parties, we have processes designed to require that the third parties and their employees and agents agree to maintain certain standards for the storage, protection and transfer of confidential, personal and proprietary information. however, we remain at risk of a data breach due to the intentional or unintentional non-compliance by a third party's employee or agent, the breakdown of a third party's data protection processes, which may not be as sophisticated as ours, or a cyber attack on a third party's information network and systems. any or all of the foregoing could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our ability to successfully manage ongoing business and organizational changes could impact our business results. we have recently undergone several significant business and organizational changes, including the l3harris merger. in addition, competition to retain or recruit talent can be heightened during a time when we are experiencing significant changes. effectively managing these business and organizational changes is critical to retaining talent, servicing customers and our business success overall. the failure to effectively manage such changes could adversely impact our business or financial results. our results of operations and cash flows are substantially affected by our mix of fixed-price, cost-plus and time-and-material type contracts. in particular, our fixed-price contracts could subject us to losses in the event of cost overruns or a significant increase in inflation. we generate revenue through various fixed-price, cost-plus and time-and-material contracts. for a general description of our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, including a discussion of revenue generated thereunder and of cost-reimbursable versus fixed-price contracts, see item 1. business - principal customers; government contracts of this report. for a description of our revenue recognition policies, see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial conditions and results of operations - critical accounting policies and estimates - revenue recognition of this report. in the two quarters ended january 3, 2020 , approximately 76 percent of our revenue was derived from fixed-price contracts which allow us to benefit from cost savings, but subject us to the risk of potential cost overruns, particularly for firm fixed-price contracts because we assume all of the cost burden. if our initial estimates are incorrect, we can lose money on these contracts. u.s. government contracts can expose us to potentially large losses because the u.s. government can hold us responsible for completing a project or, in certain circumstances, paying the entire cost of its replacement by another provider regardless of the size or foreseeability of any cost overruns that occur over the life of the contract. because many of these contracts involve new technologies and applications and can last for years, unforeseen events, such as technological difficulties, fluctuations in the price of raw materials, a significant increase in inflation in the u.s. or other countries, problems with our suppliers and cost overruns, can result in the contractual price becoming less favorable or even unprofitable to us over time. furthermore, if we do not meet contract deadlines or specifications, we may need to renegotiate contracts on less favorable terms, be forced to pay penalties or liquidated damages or suffer major losses if the customer exercises its right to terminate. in addition, some of our contracts have provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights, and if we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts, we may not realize their full benefits. our results of operations are dependent on our ability to maximize our earnings from our contracts. cost overruns could have an adverse impact on our financial results. the potential impact of such risk on our financial results would increase if the mix of our contracts and programs shifted toward a greater percentage of fixed-price contracts, particularly firm fixed-price contracts. in the two quarters ended january 3, 2020 , approximately 24 percent of our revenue was derived from cost-plus and time-and-material contracts. substantially all of our cost-plus contracts and time-and-material contracts are with u.s. government customers, while sales to foreign government and commercial customers are generally transacted under fixed-price sales 13 arrangements and are included in our fixed-price contract sales. for a cost-plus contract, we are paid our allowable incurred costs plus a profit, which can be fixed or variable depending on the contract's fee arrangement up to predetermined funding levels established by our customers. on a time-and-material contract, we are paid on the basis of direct labor hours expended at specified fixed-price hourly rates (which include wages, overhead, allowable general and administrative expenses and profit) and materials at cost. therefore, on cost-plus and time-and-material type contracts, we do not bear the risks of unexpected cost overruns, provided that we do not incur costs that exceed the predetermined funded amounts. we use estimates in accounting for many of our programs, and changes in our estimates could adversely affect our future financial results. accounting for our contracts requires judgment relative to assessing risks, including risks associated with customer-directed delays and reductions in scheduled deliveries, unfavorable resolutions of claims and contractual matters, judgments associated with estimating contract revenue and costs and assumptions for schedule and technical issues. due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenue and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. for example, we must make assumptions regarding: (i) the length of time to complete the contract because costs also include expected increases in wages and prices for materials; (ii) whether contracts should be accounted for as having one or more performance obligations based on the goods and services promised to the customer; (iii) incentives or penalties related to performance on contracts in estimating revenue and profit rates, and recording them when there is sufficient information for us to assess anticipated performance; and (iv) estimates of award fees in estimating revenue and profit rates based on actual and anticipated awards. because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes involved in accounting for our contracts, materially different amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. for additional information regarding our critical accounting policies and estimates applicable to our accounting for our contracts, see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial conditions and results of operations - critical accounting policies and estimates of this report. we derive a significant portion of our revenue from international operations and are subject to the risks of doing business internationally, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates. we are dependent on sales to customers outside the u.s. the percentage of our total revenue represented by revenue from products, systems and services where the end consumer is located outside the u.s., including foreign military sales through the u.s. government, was 21 percent in the two quarters ended january 3, 2020 and 22 percent , 23 percent and 25 percent in fiscal 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , respectively. approximately 40 percent of our international business in the two quarters ended january 3, 2020 was transacted in local currency. losses resulting from currency rate fluctuations can adversely affect our results. we expect that international revenue will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue. also, a significant portion of our international revenue is from, and a significant portion of our business activity is being conducted with or in, less-developed countries and sometimes countries with unstable governments, or in areas of military conflict or at military installations. other risks of doing business internationally include: currency exchange controls, fluctuations of currency and currency revaluations; the laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments relating to investments and operations, as well as u.s. laws affecting the activities of u.s. companies abroad, including the foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ); import and export licensing requirements and regulations, including itar, as well as unforeseen changes in export controls and other trade regulations; changes in regulatory requirements, including business or operating license requirements, imposition of tariffs or embargoes; uncertainties and restrictions concerning the availability of funding, credit or guarantees; risk of non-payment or delayed payment by foreign governments; contractual obligations to non-u.s. customers may include specific in-country purchases, investments, manufacturing agreements or financial or other support arrangements or obligations, known as offset obligations, that may extend over several years, may require teaming with local companies and may result in significant penalties if not satisfied; the complexity and necessity of using, and disruptions involving our, international dealers, distributors, sales representatives and consultants; the difficulties of managing a geographically dispersed organization and culturally diverse workforces, including compliance with local laws and practices; difficulties associated with repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner and changes in tax laws; uncertainties as to local laws and enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights and occasional requirements for onerous contract terms; 14 rapid changes in government, economic and political policies, political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of international boycotts or u.s. anti-boycott legislation; and increased risk of an incident resulting in damage or destruction to our facilities or products or resulting in injury or loss of life to our employees, subcontractors or other third parties. the level of returns on defined benefit plan assets, changes in interest rates and other factors could affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future periods. a substantial portion of our current and retired employee population is covered by defined benefit pension and other postretirement defined benefit plans (collectively, defined benefit plans ). we may experience significant fluctuations in costs related to defined benefit plans as a result of macro-economic factors, such as interest rates, that are beyond our control. the cost of our defined benefit plans is incurred over long periods of time and involves various factors and uncertainties during those periods that can be volatile and unpredictable, including the rates of return on defined benefit plan assets, discount rates used to calculate liabilities and expenses, mortality of plan participants and trends for future medical costs. we develop our assumptions using relevant plan experience and expectations in conjunction with market-related data. these assumptions and other actuarial assumptions may change significantly due to changes in economic, legislative, and/or demographic experience or circumstances. our financial condition and results of operations could be materially affected by significant changes in key economic indicators, financial market volatility, future legislation and other governmental regulatory actions. we will make contributions to fund our defined benefit plans when considered necessary or advantageous to do so. the macro-economic factors discussed above, including the rates of return on defined benefit plan assets and the minimum funding requirements established by government funding or taxing authorities, or established by other agreement, may influence future funding requirements. a significant decline in the fair value of our plan assets, or other adverse changes to our overall defined benefit plans, could require us to make significant funding contributions and affect cash flows in future periods. u.s. government cost accounting standards ( cas ) govern the extent to which postretirement costs and plan contributions are allocable to and recoverable under contracts with the u.s. government. we expect to continue to seek reimbursement from the u.s. government for a portion of our postretirement costs and plan contributions; however, pension plan cost recoveries under our u.s. government contracts may occur in different periods from when those pension costs are recognized for financial statement purposes or when pension funding is made. cas rules have been revised to partially harmonize the measurement and period of assignment of pension plan costs allocable to u.s. government contracts and minimum required contributions under the employee retirement income security act of 1974, as amended by the pension protection act of 2006. however, there is still a lag between the time when we contribute cash to our plans under pension funding rules and when we recover pension costs under cas rules. these timing differences could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows. we may not be successful in obtaining the necessary export licenses to conduct certain operations abroad, and congress may prevent proposed sales to certain foreign governments. we must first obtain export and other licenses and authorizations from various u.s. government agencies before we are permitted to sell certain products and technologies outside of the u.s. for example, the u.s. department of state must notify congress at least 15 to 60 days, depending on the size and location of the proposed sale, prior to authorizing certain sales of defense equipment and services to foreign governments. during that time, congress may take action to block the proposed sale. we can give no assurance that we will continue to be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses or authorizations or that congress will not prevent or delay certain sales. our ability to obtain these licenses and authorizations timely or at all is subject to risks and uncertainties, including changing u.s. government policies or laws or delays in congressional action due to geopolitical and other factors. if we are not successful in obtaining or maintaining the necessary licenses or authorizations in a timely manner, our sales relating to those approvals may be reversed, prevented or delayed, and any significant impairment of our ability to sell products or technologies outside of the u.s. could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. disputes with our subcontractors or the inability of our subcontractors to perform, or our key suppliers to timely deliver our components, parts or services, could cause our products, systems or services to be produced or delivered in an untimely or unsatisfactory manner. we engage subcontractors on many of our contracts. we may have disputes with our subcontractors, including regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor, customer concerns about the subcontract or subcontractor, our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders under a subcontract, our hiring of the personnel of a subcontractor or vice versa or the subcontractor's failure to comply with applicable law. in addition, there are certain parts, components and services for many of our products, systems and services that we source from other manufacturers or vendors. some of our suppliers, from time to time, experience financial and operational difficulties, which may impact their ability to supply the materials, components, subsystems and services that we require. tariffs recently imposed on certain materials and other trade issues may create or exacerbate existing materials shortages and may result in further supplier business closures. our supply chain could also be disrupted by external events, such as natural disasters or other significant disruptions (including extreme weather 15 conditions, medical epidemics, acts of terrorism, cyber attacks and labor disputes), governmental actions and legislative or regulatory changes, including product certification or stewardship requirements, sourcing restrictions, product authenticity and climate change or greenhouse gas emission standards, or availability constraints from increased demand from customers. in addition, the ongoing coronavirus outbreak emanating from china at the beginning of 2020 has resulted in increased travel restrictions and extended shutdown of certain businesses in the region. these or any further political or governmental developments or health concerns in china or other countries in which we operate could result in social, economic and labor instability. any inability to develop alternative sources of supply on a cost-effective and timely basis could materially impair our ability to manufacture and deliver products, systems and services to our customers. we can give no assurances that we will be free from disputes with our subcontractors; material supply constraints or problems; or component, subsystems or services problems in the future. also, our subcontractors and other suppliers may not be able to acquire or maintain the quality of the materials, components, subsystems and services they supply, which might result in greater product returns, service problems and warranty claims and could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, in connection with our government contracts, we are required to procure certain materials, components and parts from supply sources approved by the u.s. government and we rely on our subcontractors and suppliers to comply with applicable laws, regulations and other requirements regarding procurement of counterfeit, unauthorized or otherwise non-compliant parts or materials, including parts or materials they supply to us, and in some circumstances, we rely on their certifications as to their compliance. from time to time, there are components for which there may be only one supplier, which may be unable to meet our needs. each of these subcontractor and supplier risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our reputation and ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of our employees, agents or business partners. we have implemented compliance controls, training, policies and procedures designed to prevent and detect reckless or criminal acts from being committed by our employees, agents or business partners that would violate the laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including laws governing payments to government officials, such as the fcpa, the protection of export controlled or classified information, such as itar, false claims, procurement integrity, cost accounting and billing, competition, information security and data privacy and the terms of our contracts. this risk of improper conduct may increase as we continue to grow and expand our operations. we cannot ensure, however, that our controls, training, policies and procedures will prevent or detect all such reckless or criminal acts, and we have been adversely impacted by such acts in the past. if not prevented, such reckless or criminal acts could subject us to civil or criminal investigations, monetary and non-monetary penalties and suspension and debarment by the u.s. government and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct business, our results of operations and our reputation. in addition, misconduct involving data security lapses resulting in the compromise of personal information or the improper use of our customer's sensitive or classified information could result in remediation costs, regulatory sanctions against us and serious harm to our reputation and could adversely impact our ability to continue to contract with the u.s. government. our future success will depend on our ability to develop new products, systems, services and technologies that achieve market acceptance in our current and future markets. our businesses are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry standards. accordingly, our performance depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: identify market needs and growth opportunities; identify emerging technological trends in our current and target markets; identify additional uses for our existing technology to address customer needs; develop and maintain competitive products, systems, services and technologies; enhance our offerings by adding innovative hardware, software or other features that differentiate our products, systems, services and technologies from those of our competitors; develop, manufacture and bring to market cost-effective offerings quickly; enhance product designs for export and releasability to international markets; and effectively structure our businesses to reflect the competitive environment, including through the use of joint ventures, collaborative agreements and other forms of alliances. we believe that, in order to remain competitive in the future, we will need to continue to design, develop, manufacture, assemble, test, market and support new products, systems, services and technologies, which will require the investment of significant financial resources. in the past, we have allocated substantial funds for such investments through customer funded and internal research and development, acquisitions or other teaming arrangements. this practice will continue to be required in the future, but we may not be able to successfully identify new opportunities and may not have the necessary financial resources to develop new products, systems, services and technologies in a timely or cost-effective manner. furthermore, the need to make these expenditures could divert our attention and resources from other projects, and we cannot be sure that these expenditures ultimately will lead to the timely development of new products, systems, services or technologies. due to the design complexity 16 of some of our products, systems, services and technologies, we may experience delays in completing development and introducing new products, systems, services or technologies in the future. any delays could result in increased costs of development or redirect resources from other projects. in addition, we cannot provide assurances that the markets for our products, systems, services or technologies will develop as we currently anticipate, that we will be successful in newly identified markets as we currently anticipate, or that acquisitions, joint ventures or other teaming arrangements we may enter into to pursue developing new products, systems, services or technologies will be successful. the failure of our products, systems, services or technologies to gain market acceptance could significantly reduce our revenue and harm our business. furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing products, systems, services or technologies that gain market acceptance in advance of our products, systems, services or technologies, or that our competitors will not develop new products, systems, services or technologies that cause our existing products, systems, services or technologies to become non-competitive or obsolete, which could adversely affect our results of operations. the future direction of the domestic and global economies, including its impact on customer demand, also will have a significant impact on our overall performance. we participate in markets that are often subject to uncertain economic conditions, which makes it difficult to estimate growth in our markets and, as a result, future income and expenditures. we participate in u.s. and international markets that are subject to uncertain economic conditions. in particular, u.s. government spending priorities and levels remain uncertain and difficult to predict and are affected by numerous factors, including sequestration and potential alternative funding arrangements. in addition, certain of our non-u.s. customers, including in the middle east and other oil or natural gas-producing countries, could be adversely affected by weakness or volatility in oil or natural gas prices, or negative expectations about future prices or volatility, which could adversely affect demand for tactical communications, electronic systems or other products, systems, services or technologies. as a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth in the markets in which we participate. because all components of our budgeting and forecasting are dependent on estimates of growth in the markets we serve, the uncertainty renders estimates of or guidance relating to future revenue, income and expenditures even more difficult. as a result, we may make significant investments and expenditures but never realize the anticipated benefits. we cannot predict the consequences of future geo-political events, but they may adversely affect the markets in which we operate, our ability to insure against risks, our operations or our profitability. ongoing instability and current conflicts in global markets, including in the middle east and asia, and the potential for other conflicts and future terrorist activities and other recent geo-political events throughout the world, including new or increased tariffs and potential trade wars and the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union on january 31, 2020 (commonly referred to as brexit ), have created and may continue to create economic and political uncertainties and impacts that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and profitability. these matters cause uncertainty in the world's financial and insurance markets and may significantly increase the political, economic and social instability in the geographic areas in which we operate. if credit in financial markets outside of the u.s. tightened, it could adversely affect the ability of our customers and suppliers to obtain financing and could result in a decrease in or cancellation of orders for our products, systems and services or impact the ability of our customers to make payments. these matters may cause us to incur increased costs or experience difficulty with future borrowings under our commercial paper program or credit facilities or in the debt markets, or otherwise with financing our operating, investing (including any future acquisitions) or financing activities. these matters also may cause our insurance coverages and performance bonds to increase in cost, or in some cases, to be unavailable altogether. although the transition period subsequent to brexit maintains all existing trade agreements, the effects of brexit will depend on the agreements, if any, the united kingdom makes to retain access to european markets either during the transition period or more permanently. an exit from the european union without an agreement in place could result in more significant disruptions to our supply chain, the imposition of increased tariffs and currency devaluation in the united kingdom and have an adverse impact on our consolidated revenue, earnings and cash flow. for the two quarters ended january 3, 2020 , l3harris generated 2 percent of its net revenues in the united kingdom. strategic transactions, including mergers, acquisitions and divestitures, involve significant risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. strategic mergers, acquisitions and divestitures we have made in the past and may make in the future present significant risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, which include: difficulty in identifying and evaluating potential mergers and acquisitions, including the risk that our due diligence does not identify or fully assess valuation issues, potential liabilities or other merger or acquisition risks; difficulty and expense in integrating newly merged or acquired businesses and operations, including combining product and service offerings, and in entering into new markets in which we are not experienced, in an efficient and cost-effective manner while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures, and the risk that we encounter significant unanticipated costs or other problems associated with integration; 17 difficulty and expense in consolidating and rationalizing it infrastructure, which may include multiple legacy systems from various mergers and acquisitions and integrating software code; challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits expected from mergers and acquisitions; risk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the strategic mergers, acquisitions and divestitures do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; risk that we assume or retain, or that companies we have merged with or acquired have assumed or retained or otherwise become subject to, significant liabilities that exceed the limitations of any applicable indemnification provisions or the financial resources of any indemnifying parties; risk that indemnification related to businesses divested or spun off that we may be required to provide or otherwise bear may be significant and could negatively impact our business; risk that mergers, acquisitions, divestitures, spin offs and other strategic transactions, including the l3harris merger, fail to qualify for the intended tax treatment for u.s. federal income tax purposes, such as a tax-free reorganization in the case of the l3harris merger; risk that we are not able to complete strategic divestitures on satisfactory terms and conditions, including non-competition arrangements applicable to certain of our business lines, or within expected timeframes; potential loss of key employees or customers of the businesses merged with or acquired or to be divested; and risk of diverting the attention of senior management from our existing operations. the outcome of litigation or arbitration in which we are involved from time to time is unpredictable, and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the size, nature and complexity of our business make us susceptible to investigations, claims, disputes, enforcement actions, litigation and other legal proceedings, particularly those involving governments. from time to time, we are defendants in a number of litigation matters and are involved in a number of arbitration matters. these actions may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. no assurances can be given that the results of these or new matters will be favorable to us. although we maintain insurance policies, these policies may not be adequate to protect us from all material judgments and expenses related to current or future claims and may not cover the conduct that is the subject of the litigation or arbitration. desired levels of insurance may not be available in the future at economical prices or at all. in addition, we believe that while we have valid defenses with respect to legal matters pending against us, the results of litigation or arbitration can be difficult to predict, including litigation involving jury trials. accordingly, our current judgment as to the likelihood of our loss (or our current estimate as to the potential range of loss, if applicable) with respect to any particular litigation or arbitration matter may be wrong. a significant judgment or arbitration award against us arising out of any of our current or future litigation or arbitration matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and future prospects. we are subject to government investigations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and future prospects. u.s. government contractors are subject to extensive legal and regulatory requirements, including itar and fcpa, and from time to time agencies of the u.s. government investigate whether we have been and are operating in accordance with these requirements. we may cooperate with the u.s. government in those investigations. under u.s. government regulations, an indictment of l3harris by a federal grand jury, or an administrative finding against us as to our present responsibility to be a u.s. government contractor or subcontractor, could result in us being suspended for a period of time from eligibility for awards of new government contracts or task orders or in a loss of export privileges, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. a conviction, or an administrative finding against us that satisfies the requisite level of seriousness, could result in debarment from contracting with the u.s. government for a specific term, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. third parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their intellectual property rights, and third parties may infringe upon our intellectual property rights. many of the markets we serve are characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights, which often has resulted in protracted and expensive litigation. our efforts to gain awards of contracts and ensure a competitive position in the market depends in part on our ability to ensure that our intellectual property is protected, that our intellectual property rights are not diluted or subject to misuse, and that we are able to license certain third party intellectual property on reasonable terms. third parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing or to have infringed directly or indirectly upon those intellectual property rights. claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. there can be no assurance that any of our patents and other intellectual property will not be challenged, invalidated, misappropriated or circumvented by third parties. moreover, we may not be able to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us, or at all. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain of 18 our products, services and solutions. our success depends in large part on our proprietary technology. we rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, know-how, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. in addition, the laws concerning intellectual property vary among nations and the protection provided to our intellectual property by the laws and courts of foreign nations may differ from those of the u.s. if we fail to successfully protect and enforce these rights, our competitive position could suffer. our pending patent and trademark registration applications may not be allowed, or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents or trademark registrations. in addition, our patents may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and enforce our intellectual property rights. litigation to determine the scope of intellectual property rights, even if ultimately successful, could be costly and could divert management's attention away from other aspects of our business.we may not be able to detect infringement, and our competitive position may be harmed before we do so. in addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. our commercial aviation products, systems and services business is affected by global demand and economic factors that could negatively impact our financial results. the operating results of our commercial aviation products, systems and services business may be adversely affected by downturns in the global demand for air travel which impacts new aircraft production and orders, and global flying hours, which impacts air transport, regional and business aircraft utilization rates and pilot training needs. the aviation industry is highly cyclical, and the level of demand for air travel is correlated to the strength of the u.s. and international economies and is impacted by long-term trends in airline passenger and cargo traffic. the results of our commercial aviation business also depend on other factors, including general economic growth, political stability in both developed and emerging markets, pricing pressures, trends in capital goods markets and changes in original equipment manufacturer production rates. we face certain significant risk exposures and potential liabilities that may not be covered adequately by insurance or indemnity. we are exposed to liabilities that are unique to the products, systems and services we provide. a significant portion of our business relates to designing, developing and manufacturing advanced defense, technology and communications systems and products. new technologies associated with these systems and products may be untested or unproven. components of certain defense systems and products we develop are inherently dangerous. failures of satellites, missile systems, air traffic control systems, electronic warfare systems, space superiority systems, c4isr systems, homeland security applications and aircraft have the potential to cause loss of life and extensive property damage. other examples of unforeseen problems that could result, either directly or indirectly, in the loss of life or property or otherwise negatively affect revenue and profitability include loss on launch of spacecraft, premature failure of products that cannot be accessed for repair or replacement, problems with quality and workmanship, country of origin, delivery of subcontractor components or services and unplanned degradation of product performance. in addition, problems and delays in development or delivery as a result of issues with respect to design, technology, licensing and patent rights, labor, learning curve assumptions or materials and components could prevent us from achieving contractual requirements. in many circumstances, we may receive indemnification from the u.s. government. we generally do not receive indemnification from foreign governments. although we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, and we may be forced to bear substantial costs from an accident or incident. it also is not possible for us to obtain insurance to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. substantial claims resulting from an incident in excess of u.s. government indemnity and our insurance coverage would harm our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. other factors that may affect revenue and profits include loss of follow-on work, and, in the case of certain contracts, liquidated damages, penalties and repayment to the customer of contract cost and fee payments we previously received. moreover, any accident or incident for which we are liable, even if fully insured, could negatively affect our standing with our customers and the public, thereby making it more difficult for us to compete effectively, and could significantly impact the cost and availability of adequate insurance in the future. changes in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. our future effective tax rate may be adversely affected by a number of factors including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not fully deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process r&amp;d and impairment of goodwill or other long-term assets in connection with mergers or acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation expense; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; changes in domestic or international tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws; and the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact our results of operations for future periods. 19 our level of indebtedness and our ability to make payments on or service our indebtedness and our unfunded defined benefit plans liability may adversely affect our financial and operating activities or our ability to incur additional debt. at january 3, 2020 , l3harris had $6.8 billion in aggregate principal amount of outstanding debt and approximately $1.8 billion of unfunded defined benefit plans liability. in the future we may increase our borrowings; however, our ability to do so will be subject to limitations imposed on us by our debt agreements. our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness as well as any future debt that we may incur, and our ability to make contributions to our unfunded defined benefit plans liability, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future from operations, financings or asset sales. our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. if we are not able to repay or refinance our debt as it becomes due or make contributions to our unfunded defined benefit plans liability, we may be forced to sell assets or take other disadvantageous actions, including reducing financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes; reducing our cash dividend rate and/or share repurchases; or dedicating an unsustainable level of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness. in addition, our ability to withstand competitive pressures and to react to changes in the defense technology industry could be impaired. the lenders who hold such debt could also accelerate amounts due, which could potentially trigger a default or acceleration of any of our other debt. a downgrade in our credit ratings could materially adversely affect our business. the credit ratings assigned to our debt securities could change based on, among other things, our results of operations, financial condition, mergers, acquisitions or dispositions. these ratings are subject to ongoing evaluation by credit rating agencies, and there can be no assurance that any rating will not be changed or withdrawn by a rating agency in the future. moreover, these credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold any of our debt securities. actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under review for a downgrade or have been assigned a negative outlook, would likely increase our borrowing costs and affect our ability to incur new indebtedness or refinance our existing indebtedness, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and the market value of our common stock and outstanding debt securities. unforeseen environmental issues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operations are subject to various u.s. federal, state and local, as well as certain foreign, environmental laws and regulations within the countries in which we operate relating to the discharge, storage, treatment, handling, disposal and remediation of certain materials, substances and wastes used in our operations. in addition, we could be affected by future environmental laws or regulations, including, for example, new restrictions on materials used in our operations, or future regulations imposed or claims asserted in response to concerns over climate change, other aspects of the environment or natural resources. compliance with current and future environmental laws and regulations may require significant operating and capital costs. environmental laws and regulations may authorize substantial fines and criminal sanctions as well as facility shutdowns to address violations, and may require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit emissions or discharges. we also incur, and expect to continue to incur, costs to comply with current environmental laws and regulations related to remediation of conditions in the environment. in addition, if violations of environmental laws result in us, or in one or more of our operations, being identified as an excluded party in the u.s. government's system for award management, then we or one or more of our operations would become ineligible to receive certain contracts, subcontracts and other benefits from the federal government or to perform work under a government contract or subcontract. generally, such ineligibility would continue until the basis for the listing has been appropriately addressed. developments such as the adoption of new environmental laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, violations by us of such laws and regulations, discovery of previously unknown or more extensive contamination, litigation involving environmental impacts, our inability to recover costs associated with any such developments under previously priced contracts, or financial insolvency of other responsible parties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we have significant operations in locations that could be materially and adversely impacted in the event of a natural disaster or other significant disruption. our corporate headquarters and significant business operations are located in florida, which is subject to the risk of major hurricanes. our worldwide operations and operations of our suppliers and customers could be subject to natural disasters or other significant disruptions, including hurricanes, typhoons, tsunamis, floods, earthquakes, fires, water shortages, other extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics, pandemics, acts of terrorism, power shortages and blackouts, telecommunications failures, cyber attacks and other natural and manmade disasters or disruptions. in the event of such a natural disaster or other disruption, we could experience disruptions or interruptions to our operations or the operations of our suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers or customers, including inability of employees to work; destruction of facilities; and/or loss of life, all of which could materially increase our costs and expenses, delay or decrease orders and revenue from our customers and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, the ongoing outbreak of the novel covid-19 strain of coronavirus in early 2020, which emanated from china and has spread to other 20 countries globally, has resulted in travel restrictions and business shutdowns in certain regions. these or any further political, governmental or other actions to contain the spread or treat the impact of coronavirus, and resulting developments, are highly uncertain and unpredictable and could result in social, economic and labor instability. these uncertainties could have a material adverse effect on the continuity of our business and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. changes in future business or other market conditions could cause business investments and/or recorded goodwill or other long-term assets to become impaired, resulting in substantial losses and write-downs that would adversely affect our results of operations. from time to time, we acquire a minority or majority interest in a business. these investments are made upon careful analysis and due diligence procedures designed to achieve a desired return or strategic objective. these procedures often involve certain assumptions and judgment in determining acquisition price. after acquisition, such assumptions and judgment may prove to have been inaccurate and unforeseen issues could arise, which could adversely affect the anticipated returns or which are otherwise not recoverable as an adjustment to the purchase price. even after careful integration efforts, actual operating results may vary significantly from initial estimates. as of january 3, 2020, we had goodwill of $20.0 billion recorded in our consolidated balance sheet, $14.6 billion of which was recorded in connection with the l3harris merger during the two quarters ended january 3, 2020 . we evaluate the recoverability of recorded goodwill annually, as well as when we change reporting units and when events or circumstances indicate there may be an impairment. we test goodwill for impairment at a level within the company referred to as the reporting unit, which is our business segment level or one level below the business segment. the impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. principally, a decrease in expected reporting unit cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill. in addition, following the l3harris merger, our reporting units are generally one level below the segment level and two of our segments are comprised of several reporting units. allocation of goodwill to several reporting units could make it more likely that we will have an impairment charge in the future. because of the significance of our goodwill and other intangible assets, any future impairment of these assets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. for additional information on accounting policies we have in place for impairment of goodwill, see our discussion under critical accounting policies and estimates in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report and note 1: significant accounting policies and note 10: goodwill in the notes. we must attract and retain key employees, and any failure to do so could seriously harm us. our future success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our management and our ability to attract and retain highly qualified management and technical personnel, including employees who have u.s. government security clearances, particularly clearances of top-secret and above. to the extent that the demand for qualified personnel exceeds supply, as has been the case from time to time in recent years, we could experience higher labor, recruiting or training costs in order to attract and retain such employees, or could experience difficulties in performing under our contracts if our needs for such employees were unmet. failure to attract and retain such personnel would damage our future prospects. some of our workforce is represented by labor unions, so our business could be harmed in the event of a prolonged work stoppage. at january 3, 2020 , approximately 3,000 of l3harris' u.s. employees were unionized, which represents approximately 7 percent of l3harris' employee-base. if we encounter difficulties with renegotiations or renewals of collective bargaining arrangements or are unsuccessful in those efforts, we could incur additional costs and experience work stoppages. union actions at suppliers can also affect us. we cannot predict how stable our union relationships will be or whether we will be able to successfully negotiate successor collective bargaining agreements without impacting our financial condition. in addition, the presence of unions may limit our flexibility in dealing with our workforce. work stoppages could negatively impact our ability to manufacture products or provide services on a timely basis, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. risks relating to integration following the l3harris merger we may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the l3harris merger or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected. we may also encounter significant difficulties in integrating the businesses. our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the l3harris merger will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to integrate the businesses. the combination of independent businesses is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. as a result, we will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integration activities. the integration process may disrupt the businesses and, if implemented ineffectively, could restrict the realization of the full benefits anticipated. the failure to meet the challenges involved in integrating the businesses and to realize the anticipated benefits of the l3harris merger could cause an interruption of or a loss of momentum in our activities and could adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, the overall integration may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss 21 of customer relationships, and diversion of management's attention. the difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among others: the diversion of management's attention to integration matters; difficulties in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects from the combination; difficulties in the integration of operations and systems; conforming standards, controls, procedures and accounting and other policies, business cultures and compensation structures between the companies; difficulties in the assimilation of employees; difficulties in managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complex company; difficulties in establishing effective uniform controls, systems, procedures and policies for the combined company; challenges in keeping existing customers and obtaining new customers; challenges in attracting and retaining key personnel; and coordinating a geographically dispersed organization. many of these factors will be outside of our control and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management's time and energy, which could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, even if our operations are integrated successfully, the full benefits of the l3harris merger may not be realized, including the synergies, cost savings or sales or growth opportunities that are expected. these benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame or at all. further, additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration. all of these factors could cause dilution to our earnings per share, decrease or delay the expected benefits of the l3harris merger and negatively impact the price of our stock. as a result, we can give no assurances that the l3harris merger will result in the realization of the full benefits anticipated. certain business uncertainties arising from the l3harris merger could adversely affect our businesses and operations. uncertainties about the effect of the l3harris merger on employees, customers, suppliers, business partners and other persons with whom we have a business relationship may have an adverse effect on us. during times of significant change and uncertainty such as the period following the l3harris merger, customers, suppliers, business partners and other persons with whom we have a business relationship may delay or defer business decisions, decide to terminate, modify or renegotiate their relationships with us, or take other actions as a result of the l3harris merger that could negatively affect our revenues, earnings and cash flows, as well as the market price of our securities. our ability to raise additional capital through the debt markets, and the associated borrowing costs, may also be negatively impacted. any such effects could limit our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the l3harris merger. these uncertainties about the effect of the l3harris merger may also impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel. employee retention may be challenging, as certain employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles or may be dissatisfied with their new roles. if key employees depart, our business could be materially harmed. if key employees join a competitor or form a new competitor, existing and potential clients could choose to use the products or services of that competitor instead of our products or services. we have incurred and will incur direct and indirect costs as a result of the l3harris merger. we have incurred substantial expenses in connection with completing the l3harris merger and coordinating and integrating the businesses, operations, policies and procedures of the combined companies and expect to continue to incur such expenses. while we have assumed that a certain level of transaction and coordination expenses will be incurred, there are a number of factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of these transaction and coordination expenses. many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately. these expenses may exceed the costs historically borne by us. these costs could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 62 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, we are exposed to the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rates and changes in interest rates. we employ established policies and procedures governing the use of financial instruments to manage our exposure to such risks. for a discussion of such policies and procedures and the related risks, see financial risk management in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report, which is incorporated by reference into this item 7a. in addition, we are exposed to market return fluctuations on our defined benefit plans. a material adverse decline in the value of these assets and/or the discount rate for projected benefit obligations would result in a decrease in the funded status of the defined benefit plans, an increase in net periodic benefit cost and an increase in required funding. to protect against declines in the discount rate (i.e., interest rates), we will continue to monitor the performance of these assets and market conditions as we evaluate the amount of future contributions. for further information, see note 15: pension and other postretirement benefits in the notes, which information is incorporated by reference into this item 7a. 62risk factors 16 risk factors of this report. all forward-looking statements are qualified by, and should be read in conjunction with, those risk factors. forward-looking statements are made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended (the securities act ), and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the exchange act ), and we undertake no obligation, other than imposed by law, to update forward-looking statements to reflect further developments or information obtained after the date of filing of this report or, in the case of any document incorporated by reference, the date of that document, and disclaim any obligation to do so. part i item 1. business. harris harris corporation, together with its subsidiaries, is an international communications and information technology company serving government and commercial markets in more than 150 countries. we are dedicated to developing best-in-class assured communications products, systems and services for global markets, including rf communications, government communications and broadcast communications. harris corporation was incorporated in delaware in 1926 as the successor to three companies founded in the 1890s. our principal executive offices are located at 1025 west nasa boulevard, melbourne, florida 32919, and our telephone number is (321) 727-9100. our common stock is listed on the new york stock exchange under the symbol hrs. on august 28, 2009, we employed approximately 15,300 people. unless the context otherwise requires, the terms we, our, us, company and harris as used in this report refer to harris corporation and its subsidiaries. general we structure our operations primarily around the products and services we sell and the markets we serve, and we report our financial results in the following three business segments: our rf communications segment, comprised of our (i) tactical radio communications and (ii) public safety and professional communications businesses; our government communications systems segment, comprised of our (i) defense programs, (ii) national intelligence programs, (iii) civil programs and (iv) it services businesses; and our broadcast communications segment, comprised of our (i) infrastructure and networking solutions, (ii) media and workflow and (iii) transmission systems businesses. as previously reported and as discussed further in note 25: business segments in the notes to consolidated financial statements in this report (the notes ), our segment reporting structure for fiscal 2009 reflects that, effective upon the commencement of fiscal 2009, our rf communications business (part of our defense communications and electronics segment for fiscal 2008) is reported as its own separate segment, and our defense programs business (the other part of our defense communications and electronics segment for fiscal 2008) is reported as part of our government communications systems segment. our broadcast communications segment did not change as a result of those adjustments to our segment reporting structure. the historical results, discussion and presentation of our business segments as set forth in this report reflect the impact of those adjustments to our segment reporting structure for all periods presented in this report. 1 table of contents additionally, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, in connection with the may 27, 2009 spin-off (the spin-off ) in the form of a taxable pro rata dividend to our shareholders of all the shares of harris stratex networks, inc. ( hstx ) common stock owned by us, we eliminated as a reporting segment our former hstx segment. accordingly, our historical financial results have been restated to account for hstx as discontinued operations for all periods presented in this report, and unless otherwise specified, disclosures in this report relate solely to our continuing operations. see note 3: discontinued operations in the notes for additional information regarding discontinued operations. financial information with respect to all of our other activities, including corporate costs not allocated to the business segments or discontinued operations, is reported as part of the unallocated corporate expense or non-operating income (loss) line items in our consolidated financial statements. recent acquisitions acquisition of crucial security, inc. on april 15, 2009, we acquired crucial security, inc. ( csi ), a privately held 110-employee washington, d.c.-area provider of mission-enabling engineering solutions that address both offensive and defensive information technology ( it ) security challenges for federal law enforcement and other u.s. government agencies. we operate csi within our government communications systems segment as part of the national intelligence programs business. the acquisition expands our capabilities, customer footprint and current initiatives in the cyber security market. acquisition of tyco electronics wireless systems business. on may 29, 2009, we acquired substantially all of the assets of the tyco electronics wireless systems business ( wireless systems ) (formerly known as m/a-com), an established provider of mission-critical wireless communications systems for law enforcement, fire and rescue, public service, utility and transportation markets. in connection with the acquisition, we assumed liabilities primarily related to wireless systems. we did not assume the state of new york wireless network contract awarded to wireless systems in december 2004. the purchase price for wireless systems was $665 million in cash, subject to further post-closing adjustments. we operate wireless systems, which we now call the public safety and professional communications business, within our rf communications segment. we believe the acquisition creates a powerful supplier of end-to-end wireless network solutions to the growing $9 billion global land mobile radio systems market and greatly accelerates our entry into that market. acquisition of solacom technologies atc business. on june 19, 2009, we acquired the 50-employee air traffic control business unit ( solacom atc ) of solacom technologies inc., a privately held company headquartered in gatineau, quebec, canada. solacom atc provides voice and data communications systems and solutions for air traffic facilities and radio communications between aircraft in flight and air traffic controllers. these next-generation radio control equipment solutions provide extremely reliable voice switching and conferencing capabilities used by more than 100 customers on six continents. we operate solacom atc within our government communications systems segment as part of the civil programs business. we believe the acquisition provides our civil programs mission critical networks business, a leader in air traffic control communications networks and telecommunications infrastructure, with an immediate ability to address additional segments of the air traffic control voice/data systems market and further positions us to support the anticipated next generation air transportation system ( nextgen ) program of the federal aviation administration ( faa ). financial information about our business segments financial information with respect to our business segments, including revenue, operating income or loss and total assets, and with respect to our operations outside the united states, is contained in note 25: business segments in the notes and is incorporated herein by reference. description of business by segment rf communications rf communications is a global supplier of secure tactical radio communications and embedded high-grade encryption solutions for military and government organizations and also of secure communications systems and equipment for public safety, utility and transportation markets. rf communications is comprised of our (i) tactical radio communications and (ii) public safety and professional communications businesses. tactical radio communications: we design, develop and manufacture a comprehensive line of secure radio communications products and systems for manpack, handheld, soldier-worn, vehicular, strategic fixed-site and shipboard applications that operate in various radio frequency bands high-frequency ( hf ), very high-frequency ( vhf ) and ultra high-frequency ( uhf ) over satellite communications ( satcom ) and in multiband mode. 2 table of contents these radio systems are highly flexible, interoperable and capable of supporting diverse mission requirements. our falcon family of tactical radios is built on a software-defined radio platform that is reprogrammable to add features or software upgrades. our falcon radios also have the highest grade embedded encryption and provide highly mobile, secure and reliable network communications capability without relying on a fixed infrastructure. this capability allows warfighters, for example, to remain connected with each other, their command structures and support organizations, and gives them the ability to communicate information and maintain situational awareness of both friendly and opposing forces, which are critical to both the safety and success of their missions. unlike many of our competitors in the u.s. government market, we operate this business on a commercial customer and market-driven business model, as opposed to a government programs-driven business model. this means that we anticipate market needs, invest our internal research and development resources to develop products sooner than government-funded programs, build to our internal forecast, and provide ready-to-ship, commercial, off-the-shelf ( cots ) products to customers more quickly than customers can typically obtain similar products under government-funded programs. our falcon iii family of radios is the next generation of multiband, multi-mission tactical radios, which supports the u.s. military joint tactical radio system ( jtrs ) requirements as well as network-centric operations worldwide. our falcon iii radios address the full range of current mission and interoperability requirements and are fully upgradeable to address changing technical standards and mission requirements of the future. advances in our falcon iii radios include extended frequency range, significant reductions in weight and size compared with previous generations and programmable encryption. we have shipped more than 75,000 jtrs-approved falcon iii radios. our falcon iii multiband handheld radio, the an/prc-152(c) ( 152c ), is the world most widely deployed jtrs-approved software-defined handheld radio and was our first falcon iii radio to be fielded. it has been widely fielded by all branches of the u.s. department of defense ( dod ) and many allies worldwide, and is also used by u.s. federal agencies. the 152c offers users a wide range of capabilities such as legacy single channel ground and airborne system ( sincgars ) interoperability; uhf ground-to-ground line-of-sight communications; close-air support; tactical satcom; and the association of public safety communications officials international ( apco ) p25 waveform to provide direct communications with first responders. the 152c also serves as the handheld-based transceiver of our falcon iii an/vrc-110, a high-performance, multiband vehicular system that offers the added feature of easy vehicle dismount a grab-and-go feature that delivers continuous communications when removed from the vehicle, an important capability in urban environments. our new falcon iii multiband manpack radio, the an/prc-117g ( 117g ), is the only jtrs-approved and national security agency ( nsa ) type-1 certified radio providing wideband networking capability. it has been deployed to all branches of the dod and is enabling the transition to a networked battlefield communications environment. high-bandwidth applications include simultaneous voice, data and streaming video for situational awareness, reconnaissance information and biometrics. the radio delivers internet protocol ( ip ) data to the tactical internet at on-air rates of up to 5 megabits per second. the 117g currently runs our advanced networking wideband waveform ( anw2 ) and is designed for future upgrade to the soldier radio waveform ( srw ). both waveforms provide advanced networking capability to the battlefield. the 117g features an extended frequency range from 30 megahertz to 2 gigahertz and is significantly lighter and consumes less power than previous generations of manpack radios. it is certified by the joint interoperability test command ( jitc ) as compliant with demand assigned multiple access ( dama ) military standards and is upgradeable to access the mobile user objective system ( muos ), both of which are used for transmitting high-bandwidth voice and data over tactical military satellites. the 117g includes a remote operated video enhanced receiver ( rover ) interoperable mode that provides warfighters on the battlefield with the ability to receive live video directly from unmanned aerial vehicles ( uavs ). this capability allows users to receive a video feed directly from the uav without an intermediary or having to pass that information from a base station, which enables a dismounted warfighter to carry only one radio in situations where two radios were previously required. our cryptographic solutions encompass nsa-certified products and systems that range from single integrated circuits to major communications systems, including our sierra and citadel embedded encryption solutions and our secnet 11 and secnet 54 tm ip communications families of communications security ( comsec ) terminals. in the international market, our tactical radios are the standard of nato and partnership for peace countries and are sold to more than 100 countries through our strong international distribution channels consisting of regional sales offices and a broad dealer network. international tactical radio demand is being driven by continuing tactical communications modernization and standardization programs to provide more sophisticated communications capabilities to address traditional and emerging threats and to provide interoperability. in fiscal 2009, we received 3 table of contents tactical radio orders from, and/or made deliveries to, a wide range of international customers including afghanistan, albania, algeria, belgium, belize, brunei, canada, the czech republic, djibouti, egypt, el salvador, estonia, ethiopia, france, hungary, indonesia, iraq, kazakhstan, kenya, kyrgyzstan, macedonia, mexico, mozambique, niger, norway, pakistan, the philippines, poland, the republic of georgia, romania, saudi arabia, singapore, uganda, ukraine, the united arab emirates and the united kingdom. additionally, we are increasing our focus on providing integrated communications systems for the international market. our integrated systems offerings are largely based on our products, but include other companies products, as well as a wide variety of applications, in order to implement integrated command, control, communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance ( c4isr ) systems for many different types of platforms, including command post and transit case systems, vehicular and shelter communications systems and specialized airborne applications, which are frequently used in border security and surveillance systems. for example, we are providing for the united arab emirates ministry of defense a mobile, airborne and fixed-secure command, control and communications ( c3 ) nationwide system with 40 ground sites connected by an ip-based radio communications network, integrating falcon ii hf, vhf and multiband radios and falcon iii high capacity data radios and tactical broadband global area network ( bgan ) terminals for satcom. we are providing the pakistan frontier corps with a complete turnkey secure, high-speed communications infrastructure system, including falcon ii hf and vhf radios, wideband high capacity line of sight ( hclos ) radios and falcon watch tm unmanned ground sensors, in fixed, mobile and shelterized installations. in addition, we are providing to brunei a nationwide complete integrated communications military system covering 18 static sites, 4 repeater sites and 288 vehicle installations, with falcon ii hf and vhf radios and falcon iii secure personal radios. public safety and professional communications: we supply assured communications systems and equipment for public safety, utility and transportation markets, with products ranging from complete end-to-end wireless network infrastructure solutions, including advanced ip voice and data networks, supporting multiple platforms and providing interoperability among disparate systems, to portable and mobile single-band and multiband radios. we acquired wireless systems on may 29, 2009, as described under item 1. business recent acquisitions of this report. as a result of that acquisition, we conduct a worldwide wireless network systems business which designs, builds, distributes, maintains and supplies wireless communications systems, including land mobile radio and broadband equipment, systems and networks for the public safety, utility and transportation markets. we offer our voice, interoperability, data and access ( vida ) network solution, which is a unique, cost-effective ip-based network that is flexible, responsive, expandable and easily upgradeable, and which supports a full line of communications systems, including opensky, networkfirst, p25 ip and enhanced digital access communication system ( edacs ), allowing seamless interconnection of diverse systems. our vida network solutions currently serve as the backbone in some of the largest and most advanced statewide and regional communications networks in north america, including the commonwealth of pennsylvania. in addition to a full range of single-band land mobile radio terminals from the wireless systems acquisition, we offer our multiband portable radio, the unity tm xg-100. the unity xg-100 covers all portable land mobile radio frequency bands in a single radio; operates on apco digital p25 conventional and trunked systems; is backwards compatible with analog fm systems; and includes advanced capabilities, such as an internal global positioning system ( gps ) receiver for situational awareness, internal secure bluetooth wireless technology, and background noise suppression features. our unity multiband radio is designed to allow federal agencies to talk with each other as well as their counterparts at the state and local level, thus providing a significant improvement over most current radio systems for u.s. public safety, which are not interoperable, requiring emergency personnel to carry multiple radios or route transmissions through ad-hoc network bridges, often configured at the time of an emergency, and creating instances where agencies responding to a common incident cannot talk to each other. revenue, operating income and backlog: revenue for the rf communications segment increased 17 percent to $1,761 million in fiscal 2009 compared with $1,507 million in fiscal 2008, and was $1,179 million in fiscal 2007. segment operating income increased 9 percent to $571.5 million in fiscal 2009 compared with $525.5 million in fiscal 2008, and was $403.2 million in fiscal 2007. the rf communications segment contributed 35 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2009 compared with 32 percent in fiscal 2008 and 31 percent in fiscal 2007. the percentage of this segment revenue that was derived outside of the united states was 39 percent in fiscal 2009 compared with 27 percent in fiscal 2008 and 28 percent in fiscal 2007. u.s. government customers, including the dod and intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military sales through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, accounted for approximately 79 percent of this segment total revenue in fiscal 2009 compared with approximately 82 percent in fiscal 2008 and 76 percent in fiscal 2007. for a general description of our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, including a discussion of revenue generated from cost- 4 table of contents reimbursement versus fixed-price contracts, see item 1. business principal customers; government contracts of this report. in general, this segment domestic products are sold and serviced directly to customers through its sales organization and through established distribution channels. internationally, this segment markets and sells its products and services through regional sales offices and established distribution channels. see item 1. business international business of this report. the funded backlog of unfilled orders for this segment was $922 million at july 3, 2009 compared with $982 million at june 27, 2008 and $797 million at june 29, 2007. we expect to fill approximately 67 percent of this funded backlog during fiscal 2010, but we can give no assurance of such fulfillment. additional information regarding this segment funded backlog is provided under item 1. business funded and unfunded backlog of this report. for a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, see item 1. business principal customers; government contracts, item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this report. government communications systems government communications systems conducts advanced research studies and produces, integrates and supports highly reliable, net-centric communications and information technology that solve the mission-critical challenges of our defense, intelligence and civilian u.s. government customers, and is comprised of our (i) defense programs, (ii) national intelligence programs, (iii) civil programs and (iv) it services businesses. defense programs: we develop, supply and integrate communications and information processing products, systems and networks for a diverse base of aerospace, terrestrial and maritime applications supporting dod missions, and we are committed to delivering leading-edge technologies that support the military ongoing transformation to network-centric communications. our technologies are providing advanced battlespace networking capabilities to assure timely and secure network-centric capabilities across strategic, operational and tactical boundaries in support of the dod full spectrum of warfighting, intelligence and logistics missions. our major technology capabilities include satcom terminals for transportable ground, fixed-site and shipboard applications; flat-panel and phased-array antennas; aviation electronics for military jets and helicopters, including radios, digital maps, modems, sensors, data buses, fiber optics and microelectronics; high-speed data links and data networks for wireless communications and smart weapons; and advanced ground control systems. for example, our mobile ad hoc networking capability allows the military to take its communications infrastructure with it, creating mobile, self-forming and self-healing networks across the battlefield. our highband networking radio tm ( hnr ), released in fiscal 2007, provides secure, wireless, high-bandwidth (30 megabits per second), on-the-move communications among users of widely dispersed local area networks ( lans ) by establishing line-of-sight connectivity using a harris-developed waveform that automatically selects the best communications path available, allowing seamless communication of voice, video and data to all levels of command. we announced in fiscal 2009 that our hnr system was deployed to the u.s. army 101st airborne division (air assault) 2nd brigade combat team in iraq, which was the first combat deployment of the hnr system. examples of ongoing programs for us include the following: the f-35 joint strike fighter ( f-35 ), f-22 raptor and f/a-18e/f super hornet aircraft platform programs, for which we provide high-performance, advanced avionics such as high-speed fiber optic networking and switching, intra-flight data links, image processing, digital map software and other electronic components, including multifunction advanced data link ( madl ) communications subsystems primarily intended for stealth platform air-to-air communications and which allow f-35s to communicate in a stealth fashion with other network nodes without revealing their positions; the warfighter information network-tactical ( win-t ) program for the u.s. army, for which we are designing and testing the wireless transmission system architecture, applying our proven enabling technologies for wireless on-the-move communications, including phased arrays and high-speed secure wireless network solutions such as our hnr system; the multiple launch rocket system ( mlrs ) improved fire control system ( ifcs ) program for the u.s. army, for which we provide the launcher interface unit, power switching unit and weapon interface unit; 5 table of contents the multiband shipboard satellite communications terminal ( mssct ) program for the u.s. navy, for which we are providing wideband satcom terminal systems. during fiscal 2009, we were awarded a contract modification, potentially worth $37 million, to supply msscts for the arleigh burke class of guided missile destroyers; and the commercial broadband satellite program ( cbsp ) for the u.s. navy, for which we supply broadband multiband satcom terminals that support essential mission requirements and provide enhanced morale-related communications services such as high-speed internet access and video communications. during fiscal 2009, we were awarded a ten-year contract, potentially worth $600 million, for the u.s. army modernization of enterprise terminals ( met ) program, under which the next-generation large satellite earth stations we develop will provide the worldwide backbone for high-priority military communications and missile defense systems and support ip and dedicated circuit connectivity within the global information grid ( gig ), providing critical reach-back capability for the warfighter. national intelligence programs: a significant portion of this business involves classified programs. while classified programs generally are not discussed in this report, the operating results relating to classified programs are included in our consolidated financial statements. we believe that the business risks associated with those programs do not differ materially from the business risks of other u.s. government programs. we are a major developer, supplier and integrator of communications and information processing products, systems and networks for a diverse base of u.s. intelligence community programs, and we support the ongoing transformation of the intelligence community into a more collaborative enterprise. serving primarily national intelligence and security agency customers, including nsa and the national geospatial-intelligence agency ( nga ), we provide intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance ( isr ) solutions that improve situational awareness, data collection accuracy and product analysis by correlating near real-time mission data and intelligence reference data for display and analysis by strategic and tactical planners and decision makers. our isr systems help to integrate information across the analyst workflow, accelerating the movement of information that has been collected and processed. we strive to produce innovative isr solutions that provide our customers with information dominance for battle-space superiority. for example, our image processing capabilities extend from algorithm development through delivery of operations systems, and we are providing advanced image exploitation and dissemination solutions for isr applications by advancing image processing, image data fusion, display technologies and digital product generation techniques. those technologies range from new techniques for merging and displaying imagery to automated techniques for image screening, cueing and remote visualization. also, our mapping and visualization capabilities provide complete, accurate and timely knowledge about the threat, the terrain, the status and the location of single or multiple foe and friendly forces and their support by utilizing data, pictures, voice and video drawn from vast storage banks or from real-time input which can be transmitted around the world in fractions of a second. in addition, we have industry-leading capabilities in the architecture, design and development of highly specialized satellite antennas, structures, phased arrays and on-board processors, which are used to enable next-generation satellite systems to provide the u.s. military and intelligence communities with strategic and tactical advantages. we are also a leader in the design and development of antenna and reflector technologies for commercial space telecommunications applications. further, our capabilities include developing and supplying state-of-the-art wireless voice and data products and solutions spanning vehicular, man-portable, airborne, remote/unattended and system-level applications for both passive and active missions, including surveillance and tracking equipment, for the u.s. intelligence community and law enforcement community. during fiscal 2009, we were awarded a number of new contracts and follow-on contracts under classified programs. in fiscal 2009, we also expanded our capabilities, customer footprint and current initiatives in the cyber security market through our april 15, 2009 acquisition of csi, as described under item 1. business recent acquisitions of this report. as an industry-leader in cyber security, we have been using state-of-the-art technology assessment techniques and architecture engineering for decades to define and operate secure networks supporting nationally critical programs. we currently support three of the nation largest secure networks: (i) the faa telecommunications infrastructure ( fti ) program network, (ii) the global communications and information systems ( patriot program) network for the national reconnaissance office ( nro ), and (iii) the navy/marine corps intranet ( nmci ) program network. our technology countermeasures and monitoring capabilities proactively safeguard vital information assets supporting the missions of u.s. military, intelligence, transportation and commerce customers. in addition, in the second quarter of fiscal 2009, we signed an agreement with mcafee, inc., a large dedicated enterprise security technology company, to resell its products and technical services to the u.s. government. 6 table of contents civil programs: we provide highly reliable, mission-critical communications and information processing systems that meet the most demanding needs of customers in the u.s. civilian federal market, including the faa, census bureau, national oceanic and atmospheric administration ( noaa ) and department of health and human services ( hhs ). we use our ability to implement and manage large, complex programs that integrate secure, advanced communications and information processing technologies in order to improve productivity and information processing and to achieve cost savings for our customers. our networks and information systems for large-scale, geographically dispersed enterprises offer advanced capabilities for collecting, processing, analyzing, interpreting, displaying, distributing, storing and retrieving data. for example, we are the prime contractor under a 15-year contract, awarded in july 2002 that is potentially worth $3.5 billion, for the fti program to integrate, modernize, operate and maintain the communications infrastructure for the u.s. air traffic control system. fti is a modern, secure and efficient network providing voice, data and video communications deployed at more than 4,500 sites across the u.s., to enhance network efficiency, reliability and security and improve service while reducing operating costs. we designed and deployed the fti network and it is fully operational. the fti network consists of the operations network, the mission support network and the satellite network. the supporting infrastructure includes the network operations control centers ( noccs ) and security operations control centers ( soccs ). the fti program expanded in the third quarter of fiscal 2009 to include the fti microwave program, which will provide replacement of the faa legacy low density radio control link ( ldrcl ) network. our acquisition of solacom atc on june 19, 2009 as described under item 1. business recent acquisitions of this report provides us with an immediate ability to address additional segments of the air traffic control voice/data systems market and further positions us to support the faa anticipated nextgen program. the u.s. census bureau is also a significant customer. under the master address file/topologically integrated geographic encoding and referencing accuracy improvement project ( mtaip ), which was completed in fiscal 2008, we were the prime contractor modernizing two key census databases containing 175 million addresses for all u.s. residences and businesses and a database linking u.s. streets, rivers, railroads and other geographic features to gps coordinates. the field data collection automation ( fdca ) program was awarded to us during fiscal 2006 in support of the 2010 census. we are the prime contractor integrating multiple automated systems, and we also developed a wireless handheld device with integrated gps and secure communications capabilities designed to enable census takers to input data in real time and securely transmit the information back to the census bureau. the fdca program is nearing completion, and revenue from the program will decline significantly in fiscal 2010. in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, we were awarded a ten-year contract, potentially worth $736 million, to provide a complete, end-to-end solution for noaa geostationary operational environmental satellite series r ground segment ( goes-r gs ) program, under which we will design, develop, deploy and operate the ground segment system, which will receive and process satellite data and generate and distribute weather data to more than 10,000 direct users. we will also provide the command and control of operational satellites under the goes-r gs program. in a new growth initiative for us healthcare solutions we are focusing on delivering standards-based interoperable healthcare solutions for government and commercial clients with security, privacy and patients in control of how their information is shared. for example, we are developing and integrating, under a contract from hhs, an open-source national health information network ( nhin ) connect gateway solution designed to enable seamless health information sharing among multiple federal agencies and regional healthcare providers. we are developing a multi-hospital military health network with image-sharing capabilities under the dod military health system global healthcare artifact and image management solution ( haims ) program. we also are providing health first, inc. ( health first ), a florida-based healthcare provider, with network management and it services for its enterprise-wide operations under a significant ten-year contract. it services: we use our engineering and integration expertise to rapidly design, build and support mission-critical communications and it solutions, as both a prime contractor and a subcontractor, for u.s. government defense, civilian and national intelligence customers and for commercial customers in cyberspace, healthcare and new media markets. with approximately 3,000 highly specialized, highly trained and appropriately certified employees at approximately 300 locations worldwide, we support large-scale, mission-critical networks, which often require the highest level of availability and security, with technical expertise and strong customer commitment through the full technology lifecycle, including network design, deployment, operations and ongoing support. our operational footprint in the u.s. offers a physical presence in all 50 states and provides support to more than 9,000 customer sites in the 200 largest cities. our capabilities and services comprise three main solution areas, namely it transformation, managed services and information assurance. 7 table of contents our it transformation solutions use a holistic approach built on proven methodologies in order to design, implement and manage enterprise-wide architectures that align it goals with customers business and mission goals. our standards-based, repeatable it transformation solutions unify, streamline and modernize unwieldy and disparate networks and systems across distributed environments, resulting in highly simplified, flexible, secure and manageable network infrastructures. our managed services solutions include outsourced staffing and infrastructure, sustained by comprehensive operations and maintenance offerings, and are based on a flexible, scalable and repeatable service level agreement ( sla ) performance-driven business model, frequently in a fixed-price environment. our managed services solutions use an information technology infrastructure library ( itil )-based best-practices approach for optimizing and supporting it and communications environments, improving efficiencies, lowering operational costs and allowing customers to focus on mission performance. our information assurance solutions include architecture analysis; attack warning and defense; identity management; security assessments; certification and accreditation process support; forensics analysis and vulnerability remediation; system anomaly monitoring, detection and management; and physical security countermeasures. our information assurance solutions safeguard the confidentiality, integrity and availability of enterprise infrastructures, systems and critical business data over the full it lifecycle, from infrastructure design to integration and testing to operations and maintenance. those solutions meet widely used certification and accreditation standards, including the federal information security management act ( fisma ), the national security agency/center security services information system certification and accreditation process ( niscap ) and the department of defense information assurance certification and accreditation process ( diacap ). as examples, for nro, which designs, builds and operates u.s. reconnaissance satellites, we provide operations, maintenance and support services for its patriot program network in space and on the ground under a ten-year contract awarded in august 2004, potentially worth $1 billion, in support of nro global analyst community. we are providing the u.s. navy with comprehensive, end-to-end support for data, video and voice communications for over 700,000 users as a tier one subcontractor under the nmci program awarded in october 2000 and potentially worth $1.1 billion. the nmci program is the largest it outsourcing managed services contract ever awarded by the u.s. government. under a five-year contract awarded by the u.s. department of state, bureau of consular affairs (the state 6 program) in august 2008, potentially worth $217 million, we provide it integration of installation, training, help desk, passport and configuration management services in support of more than 230 u.s. embassies and consulates around the world. we also provide system maintenance and engineering for the defense information systems agency ( disa ) crisis management system, and we provide ongoing mission operations and support services under the fti program. additionally, under the network and space operations and maintenance ( nsom ) program contract awarded to us in january 2008 for a six-month base period with six one-year options, potentially worth $410 million in aggregate, we provide operations and maintenance support at locations around the world for the communications functions for the u.s. air force 50th space wing satellite control network ( afscn ), a global, continuously operational network of ground stations, operational control nodes and communications links that support launch and command and control of various space programs managed by the dod and other national security space organizations. we also have key positions on a number of indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity ( idiq ) contracts. we are a prime contractor under the u.s. air force network centric solutions ( netcents ) contract, which provides it installation, integration and operations and maintenance services for networks and systems and offers it products for networks. our netcents task orders include the maxwell air force base and the overseas navy enterprise network ( one-net ). we are also a prime contractor under the u.s. army ites-2s contract, which provides it installation, integration, infrastructure and operations and maintenance services for networks and systems. our ites-2s task orders include the fort bliss department of information management ( doim ), the army g-1 support and the army.mil website and content support. we are one of 59 prime contractor awardees under the alliant government-wide acquisition contract ( gwac ) for the general services administration ( gsa ), which is an it procurement contract broadly accessible to all u.s. government agencies. in a new growth initiative for us commercial managed services we are providing end-to-end solutions and services across our vertical commercial markets, including cyberspace, healthcare and new media broadcast markets. for example, we are providing health first with managed services for back office infrastructure and networks. we also are collaborating with the broadcast communications segment to design and manage systems that manage, monitor and play out video content for a branded tv channel for the mcdonald fast food chain and systems that combine ip television ( iptv ) and digital signage and it infrastructure to create an advanced media workflow for an in-arena network for the orlando magic new basketball arena, as described in more detail below under item 1. business description of business by segment broadcast communications of this report. 8 table of contents revenue, operating income and backlog: revenue for the government communications systems segment increased 9 percent to $2,710 million in fiscal 2009 compared with $2,478 million in fiscal 2008, and was $1,997 million in fiscal 2007. segment operating income increased 34 percent to $302.8 million in fiscal 2009 compared with $226.0 million in fiscal 2008, and was $225.6 million in fiscal 2007. this segment contributed 54 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2009 compared with 54 percent in fiscal 2008 and 53 percent in fiscal 2007. in fiscal 2009, approximately 28 percent of the revenue for this segment was under contracts with prime contractors and approximately 72 percent of revenue was under direct contracts with customers, compared with approximately 26 percent of revenue under contracts with prime contractors and approximately 74 percent of revenue under direct contracts with customers in fiscal 2008 and approximately 29 percent of revenue under contracts with prime contractors and approximately 71 percent of revenue under direct contracts with customers in fiscal 2007. some of this segment more significant programs in fiscal 2009 included the fdca program, the fti program, the patriot program, the netcents program, the nmci program and various classified programs. the largest program by revenue for fiscal 2009 represented approximately 13 percent of this segment revenue in fiscal 2009, compared with approximately 9 percent in fiscal 2008 and approximately 12 percent in fiscal 2007. the 10 largest programs by revenue for fiscal 2009 represented approximately 46 percent of this segment revenue in fiscal 2009, approximately 45 percent in fiscal 2008 and approximately 38 percent in fiscal 2007. in fiscal 2009, this segment had a diverse portfolio of over 300 programs. historically, that diversity has provided a stable backlog and reduced potential risks that come from reductions in funding or changes in customer priorities, and we expect that program diversity will continue to provide similar benefits in the future, although we can give no assurance. in fiscal 2009, u.s. government customers, including the dod and intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military sales through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, accounted for approximately 96 percent of this segment total revenue compared with approximately 96 percent in fiscal 2008 and 95 percent in fiscal 2007. for a general description of our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, including a discussion of revenue generated from cost-reimbursement versus fixed-price contracts, see item 1. business principal customers; government contracts of this report. the funded backlog of unfilled orders for this segment was $398 million at july 3, 2009 compared with $371 million at june 27, 2008 and $372 million at june 29, 2007. unfunded backlog for this segment was $4,750 million at july 3, 2009 compared with $4,225 million at june 27, 2008 and $4,265 million at june 29, 2007. we expect to fill approximately 95 percent of this funded backlog during fiscal 2010, but we can give no assurance of such fulfillment. additional information regarding funded and unfunded backlog for this segment is provided under item 1. business funded and unfunded backlog of this report. for a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, see item 1. business principal customers; government contracts, item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this report. broadcast communications broadcast communications supplies technology and service solutions to consumers of rich media, including tv stations and networks and cable, satellite, telecommunications and other media content providers. recently, our efforts have expanded to include government customers, sports and entertainment organizations, restaurants, casinos and theme parks, that use broadcast and digital signage technologies to drive messaging and advertising to their customers. those solutions are designed to receive content in any format and then manage, move and reformat that content for any delivery network to any viewing device. broadcast communications hardware and software products, systems and services offer a comprehensive, single-source approach to delivering interoperable workflow capabilities and solutions spanning the entire broadcast value chain, including content creation, management, distribution and delivery. the harris one tm solution for interoperable workflows that depend on it-centric systems, integrated infrastructure and enterprise software brings together highly integrated and cost-effective products suited for emerging media business models and for customers upgrading media operations to digital and high definition ( hd ) services from analog and standard definition ( sd ) services. this segment serves the global digital and analog media markets, providing infrastructure and networking products and solutions, media and workflow solutions, and television and radio transmission equipment and systems. the current trend and future of broadcast media involves digitizing content and transporting it simultaneously over many different networks to many types of devices. the need to create, manage and ultimately deliver digital media content is driving an infrastructure upgrade cycle for the media industry. however, the global recession, particularly the weak economic conditions in north america, has prompted many broadcast and media customers to postpone capital spending projects, and we expect the north america market to remain weak for at least the next several quarters. we also expect the impact of lower revenue on this segment operating performance to be mitigated by its ongoing cost-reduction and margin improvement actions. we are supporting customers as they 9 table of contents expand services for hd television ( hdtv ), iptv, video-on-demand and interactive tv. the introduction of several new products has established broadcast communications as a provider of end-to-end solutions for the worldwide transition to digital and hd technologies and infrastructure, including three gigabit per second ( 3 gb/s ) solutions for the 1080p hd format. infrastructure and networking solutions: our infrastructure and networking solutions offerings include sd and hd products and systems that enable media companies to streamline workflow from production through transmission. we provide a comprehensive, next-generation portfolio of signal processors, routers, master control and branding systems, network monitoring and control software, and test and measurement instruments that support content throughout the workflow application chain. we also provide advanced multi-image display processors and state-of-the-art broadcast graphics that change the way broadcasters view and manage content and provide broadcasters with options for presenting their brands. we also provide highly differentiated network access and multiplex platforms through our netvx tm solution, which offers customized integrated management and distribution applications for any content across any connection to support television, government video and public safety applications. our infrastructure and networking products also include our x85 tm up/down/cross converter and frame synchronizer multiple application video and audio processing platform; opto+ tm fiber optic signal processing products offering 3 gb/s electrical-to-optical and optical-to-electrical conversion capabilities; platinum tm large router for mixed video and audio signal routing; iconmaster tm digital master control system; videotek line of precision test and measurement instruments; compact, scalable predator ii tm and larger-format multi-image display processors, or multiviewers; and inscriber line of graphics and titling products. media and workflow: our media and workflow solutions offerings enable customers to manage their digital media workflow through a portfolio of software solutions for advertising, media management (traffic, billing and program scheduling), digital signage, broadband, digital asset management, and play-out automation, and to transition into an it workflow by using servers to manage content flow, storage and other key facets of an increasingly file-based broadcast environment. we offer modular, standards-based solutions generally with open application programming interfaces ( apis ) for ease of integration and future scalability. our media and workflow solutions products include the harris media software suite, our osi traffic tm software and our invenio tm digital asset management solution. the harris media software suite is a unified system of interoperable broadcast and media applications based on open standards, with a network-, content- and service-agnostic approach, which supports customers core services and business operations, makes data exchange and workflow more efficient and facilitates adding services that can lead to new revenue streams. our products also include our nexio amp tm hd/sd video server advanced media platform, part of our nexio tm family of scalable, interoperable video servers; velocity tm family of editing controllers that employ open standards to accelerate time-to-air and reduce the costs associated with content acquisition, production, distribution and media management; punctuate tm out-of-home advertising and digital signage traffic, scheduling and ad sales advanced software solution; and infocaster line of digital signage systems. transmission systems: we develop, manufacture and supply digital and analog television and radio transmission systems for delivery of rich media over wireless broadcast terrestrial networks on a worldwide basis, including mobile tv applications. we can provide single products or end-to-end systems, including nationwide networks with hundreds of transmitters. our television and radio transmission systems solutions are scalable to meet the needs of broadcasters of all sizes. we are a leader in television transition from analog to digital technology and in technology for the u.s. digital standard known as atsc and the european digital standard dvb-t. we continue to play a leading role in assisting local television broadcasters and network operators to implement transmission solutions, including solutions based on atsc and dvb-t and other digital standards and all major approaches to broadcast mobile tv. in fiscal 2007, we introduced with lg electronics inc. the jointly developed mobile handheld in-band mobile digital tv system ( m/h ), a new technology capable of providing digital tv ( dtv ) signals and extending over-the-air broadcast tv signals beyond customary tv viewing at home to mobile, pedestrian and other handheld devices (such as mobile phones or laptop computers). our products also include our maxiva tm line of uhf multimedia transmitters, comprised of our maxiva ulx series of liquid-cooled transmitters for high-power uhf multimedia broadcasters and our maxiva uax series of air-cooled, solid-state transmitters for low-power uhf transmission. we are also a leader in the transition from analog to digital radio. our product offerings address the u.s. digital standard called iboc (in-band/on-channel), which is referred to in the market as hd radio , as well as international digital standards including dab and drm. our radio transmission products include our intraplex line of audio transport products, including studio-to-transmitter links, and our flexstar tm family, which provides a bandwidth-efficient bitstream so broadcasters can offer supplemental audio and data capability along with the main program stream, offering listeners 5.1 surround sound, on-demand traffic, weather and sports reports, store-and-play capabilities and real-time navigation. 10 table of contents this segment has several new growth initiatives underway. we offer digital transmitters, encoding equipment and the ability to launch new channels with an overall solution consisting of ad sales, automation, servers, master control and branding for mobile tv applications. we are collaborating with the government communications systems segment it services business to design and manage (i) systems featuring digital signage solutions with it infrastructure to manage, monitor and play out digital broadcast-quality video content for the mcdonald fast food chain branded tv channel under a field trial including 20 restaurants around the u.s. and (ii) systems that combine iptv and digital signage solutions that merge broadcast technology with it infrastructure in order to create an innovative file-based advanced media workflow for an in-arena network for the orlando magic new basketball arena. we also offer, for u.s. government customers, our full-motion video asset management engine ( fame tm ) capability. fame is a cots-based solution developed based on our digital asset management technologies, input from intelligence analysts and our government communications systems segment image processing, system integration and security capabilities. revenue, operating income and backlog: revenue for the broadcast communications segment decreased 9 percent to $584 million in fiscal 2009 compared with $643 million in fiscal 2008, and was $600 million in fiscal 2007. the segment had an operating loss of $238.0 million in fiscal 2009, which included a $255.5 million non-cash charge for impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets, compared with operating income of $33.8 million in fiscal 2008 and $11.9 million in fiscal 2007. the broadcast communications segment contributed 11 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2009 compared with 14 percent in fiscal 2008 and 16 percent in fiscal 2007. the percentage of this segment revenue that was derived outside of the united states was approximately 47 percent in fiscal 2009 compared with 47 percent in fiscal 2008 and 46 percent in fiscal 2007. no single customer accounted for more than 3 percent of fiscal 2009 revenue for the broadcast communications segment. in general, this segment domestic products are sold and serviced directly to customers through its sales organization and through established distribution channels. internationally, this segment markets and sells its products and services through regional sales offices and established distribution channels. see item 1. business international business of this report. the funded backlog of unfilled orders for this segment was $247 million at july 3, 2009 compared with $305 million at june 27, 2008 and $298 million at june 29, 2007. we expect to fill approximately 50 percent of this backlog during fiscal 2010, but we can give no assurance of such fulfillment. for a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, see item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this report. international business revenue from products exported from the united states (including foreign military sales) or manufactured abroad was $1,016.6 million (20 percent of our total revenue) in fiscal 2009 compared with $759.7 million (17 percent of our total revenue) in fiscal 2008 and $629.6 million (17 percent of our total revenue) in fiscal 2007. our international sales include both direct exports from the united states and sales from foreign subsidiaries. essentially all of the international sales are derived from the rf communications and broadcast communications segments. direct export sales are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars, whereas sales from foreign subsidiaries are generally denominated in the local currency of the subsidiary. exports from the united states, principally to europe, africa, canada, latin america, the middle east and asia, totaled $766.0 million (approximately 75 percent of our international revenue) in fiscal 2009 compared with $530.5 million (approximately 70 percent of our international revenue) in fiscal 2008 and $404.0 million (approximately 64 percent of our international revenue) in fiscal 2007. the percentage of revenue represented by foreign operations was 5 percent in fiscal 2009 compared with 5 percent in fiscal 2008 and 6 percent in fiscal 2007. the percentage of long-lived assets represented by foreign operations was 12 percent as of july 3, 2009 compared with 19 percent as of june 27, 2008 and 19 percent as of june 29, 2007. financial information regarding our domestic and international operations is contained in note 25: business segments in the notes and is incorporated herein by reference. our principal international manufacturing facilities are located in canada and the united kingdom. the majority of our international marketing activities are conducted through subsidiaries which operate in canada, europe, central and south america, and asia. we have also established international marketing organizations and several regional sales offices. reference is made to exhibit 21 subsidiaries of the registrant of this report for further information regarding our international subsidiaries. we utilize indirect sales channels, including dealers, distributors and sales representatives, in the marketing and sale of some lines of products and equipment, both domestically and internationally. these independent representatives may buy for resale or, in some cases, solicit orders from commercial or governmental customers for direct sales by us. prices to the ultimate customer in many instances may be recommended or established by the 11 table of contents independent representative and may be above or below our list prices. our dealers and distributors generally receive a discount from our list prices and may mark up those prices in setting the final sales prices paid by the customer. revenue from indirect sales channels in fiscal 2009 represented 11 percent of our total revenue and approximately 55 percent of our international revenue, compared with revenue from indirect sales channels in fiscal 2008 representing 7 percent of our total revenue and approximately 44 percent of our international revenue, and revenue from indirect sales channels in fiscal 2007 representing 8 percent of our total revenue and 40 percent of our international revenue. fiscal 2009 international revenue came from a large number of countries, and no such single country accounted for more than 3 percent of our total revenue. some of our exports are paid for by letters of credit, with the balance carried either on an open account or installment note basis. advance payments, progress payments or other similar payments received prior to or upon shipment often cover most of the related costs incurred. significant foreign government contracts generally require us to provide performance guarantees. in order to stay competitive in international markets, we also sometimes enter into recourse and vendor financing arrangements to facilitate sales to certain customers. the particular economic, social and political conditions for business conducted outside the u.s. differ from those encountered by domestic businesses. our management believes that the overall business risk for the international business as a whole is somewhat greater than that faced by our domestic operations as a whole. a description of the types of risks to which we are subject in international business is contained in item 1a. risk factors of this report. nevertheless, in the opinion of our management, these risks are mitigated by the diversification of the international business and the protection provided by letters of credit and advance payments. competition we operate in highly competitive markets that are sensitive to technological advances. although successful product and systems development is not necessarily dependent on substantial financial resources, many of our competitors in each of our businesses are larger than we are and can maintain higher levels of expenditures for research and development. in each of our businesses we concentrate on the market opportunities that our management believes are compatible with our resources, overall technological capabilities and objectives. principal competitive factors in these businesses are product quality and reliability; technological capabilities; service; past performance; ability to develop and implement complex, integrated solutions; ability to meet delivery schedules; the effectiveness of third-party sales channels in international markets; and cost-effectiveness. within the it services market, there is intense competition among many companies. the ability to compete in the it services market depends on a number of factors, including the capability to deploy skilled professionals at competitive prices across the diverse spectrum of the it services market. in the rf communications segment, principal competitors include european aeronautic defence and space company n.v. ( eads ), general dynamics, itt industries, motorola, raytheon, rohde schwarz, selex, tadiran and thales. in the government communications systems segment, principal competitors include boeing, caci, general dynamics, gtsi, l-3 communications, lockheed martin, mantech, nci, northrop grumman, raytheon, rockwell collins, sra, stanley and saic. consolidation among u.s. defense and aerospace companies has resulted in a reduction in the number of principal prime contractors. as a result of this consolidation, we frequently partner or are involved in subcontracting and teaming relationships with companies that are, from time to time, competitors on other programs. in the broadcast communications segment, principal competitors include avid, broadcast electronics, chyron, evertz, harmonic, miranda, nautel, nec, omneon, omnibus, pilat media, rohde schwarz, sony broadcast, tektronix, thomson and wide orbit, as well as other smaller companies and divisions of large companies. we believe that our broad product offering and total content delivery solutions are key competitive strengths for this segment. principal customers; government contracts sales to u.s. government customers, including the dod and intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military sales through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, were 79 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2009 compared with 79 percent in fiscal 2008 and 75 percent in fiscal 2007. no other customer accounted for more than 1 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2009. additional information regarding customers for each of our segments is provided under item 1. business description of business by segment of this report. our u.s. government sales are predominantly derived from contracts with agencies of, and prime contractors to, the u.s. government. most of the sales of the government communications systems segment are made directly or indirectly to the u.s. government under contracts or subcontracts containing standard government contract clauses providing for redetermination of profits, if applicable, and for termination for the convenience of the u.s. government or for default based upon performance. 12 table of contents these u.s. government contracts and subcontracts include both cost-reimbursement and fixed-price contracts. our cost-reimbursement contracts provide for the reimbursement of allowable costs plus the payment of a fee. our cost-reimbursement contracts fall into three basic types: (i) cost-plus fixed-fee contracts, which provide for the payment of a fixed fee irrespective of the final cost of performance; (ii) cost-plus incentive-fee contracts, which provide for increases or decreases in the fee, within specified limits, based upon actual results compared with contractual targets relating to factors such as cost, performance and delivery schedule; and (iii) cost-plus award-fee contracts, which provide for the payment of an award fee determined at the discretion of the customer based upon the performance of the contractor against pre-established performance criteria. under cost-reimbursement contracts, we are reimbursed periodically for allowable costs and are paid a portion of the fee based on contract progress. some overhead costs have been made partially or wholly unallowable for reimbursement by statute or regulation. examples are certain merger and acquisition costs, lobbying costs, charitable contributions and certain litigation defense costs. our fixed-price contracts are either firm fixed-price contracts or fixed-price incentive contracts. under firm fixed-price contracts, we agree to perform a specific scope of work for a fixed price and, as a result, benefit from cost savings and carry the burden of cost overruns. under fixed-price incentive contracts, we share with the u.s. government both savings accrued from contracts performed for less than target costs as well as costs incurred in excess of targets up to a negotiated ceiling price (which is higher than the target cost), but carry the entire burden of costs exceeding the negotiated ceiling price. accordingly, under such incentive contracts, profit may also be adjusted up or down depending upon whether specified performance objectives are met. under firm fixed-price and fixed-price incentive contracts, we usually receive either milestone payments equaling 100 percent of the contract price or monthly progress payments from the u.s. government in amounts equaling 80 percent of costs incurred under the contract. the remaining amounts, including profits or incentive fees, are billed upon delivery and final acceptance of end items and deliverables under the contract. fixed-price contracts generally have higher profit margins than cost-reimbursement contracts. production contracts are mainly fixed-price contracts, and development contracts are generally cost-reimbursement contracts. in fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, approximately 36 percent, 35 percent and 33 percent, respectively, of the total combined revenue of our rf communications and government communications systems segments was from fixed-price contracts. gwac and idiq contracts, which can include task orders for each contract type, require us to compete both for the initial contract and then for individual task or delivery orders under such contracts. as stated above, u.s. government contracts are terminable for the convenience of the u.s. government, as well as for default based on performance. companies supplying goods and services to the u.s. government are dependent on congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of funds and may be affected by changes in u.s. government policies resulting from various military, political and international developments. long-term government contracts and related orders are subject to cancellation if appropriations for subsequent performance periods become unavailable. under contracts terminable for the convenience of the u.s. government, a contractor is entitled to receive payments for its allowable costs and, in general, the proportionate share of fees or earnings for the work done. contracts that are terminable for default generally provide that the u.s. government pays only for the work it has accepted and may require the contractor to pay for the incremental cost of reprocurement and may hold the contractor liable for damages. in many cases, there is also uncertainty relating to the complexity of designs, necessity for design improvements and difficulty in forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work. under many u.s. government contracts, we are required to maintain facility and personnel security clearances complying with dod and other federal agency requirements. for further discussion of risks relating to u.s. government contracts, see item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this report. funded and unfunded backlog our total company-wide funded and unfunded backlog was approximately $6,317 million at july 3, 2009 compared with approximately $5,883 million at june 27, 2008 and $5,732 million at june 29, 2007. the funded portion of this backlog was approximately $1,567 million at july 3, 2009 compared with approximately $1,658 million at june 27, 2008 and $1,467 million at june 29, 2007. the determination of backlog involves substantial estimating, particularly with respect to customer requirements contracts and development and production contracts of a cost-reimbursement or incentive nature. we define funded backlog as unfilled firm orders for products and services for which funding has been authorized and, in the case of u.s. government agencies, appropriated. unfunded backlog is primarily unfilled firm and expected follow-on orders that have not yet met our established funding criteria. our established funding criteria require both authorization by the customer as well as our management determination that there is little or no risk 13 table of contents of the authorized funding being rescinded. we do not include potential task or delivery orders under idiq contracts in our backlog. in fiscal 2010, we expect to fill approximately 71 percent of our total funded backlog as of july 3, 2009. however, we can give no assurance of such fulfillment or that our funded backlog will become revenue in any particular period, if at all. backlog is subject to delivery delays and program cancellations, which are beyond our control. additional information with regard to the backlog of each of our segments is provided under item 1. business description of business by segment of this report. research, development and engineering research, development and engineering expenditures totaled approximately $1,003 million in fiscal 2009, $980 million in fiscal 2008 and $884 million in fiscal 2007. company-sponsored research and product development costs, which included research and development for commercial products and independent research and development related to government products and services, as well as concept formulation studies and bid and proposal efforts, were approximately $244 million in fiscal 2009, $248 million in fiscal 2008 and $195 million in fiscal 2007. a portion of our independent research and development costs are allocated among contracts and programs in process under u.s. government contractual arrangements. company-sponsored research and product development costs not otherwise allocable are charged to expense when incurred. the portion of total research, development and engineering expenditures that was not company-sponsored was funded by the u.s. government and is included in our revenue. customer-sponsored research and development was $759 million in fiscal 2009, $732 million in fiscal 2008 and $689 million in fiscal 2007. company-sponsored research is directed to the development of new products and to building technological capability in selected communications and electronic systems markets. u.s. government-funded research helps strengthen and broaden our technical capabilities. all of our segments maintain their own engineering and new product development departments, with scientific assistance provided by advanced-technology departments. as of july 3, 2009, we employed approximately 6,500 engineers and scientists and are continuing efforts to make the technologies developed in any of our business segments available for all other business segments. patents and other intellectual property we consider our patents and other intellectual property, in the aggregate, to constitute an important asset. we own a large and valuable portfolio of patents, trade secrets, know-how, confidential information, trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property. we also license intellectual property to and from third parties. as of july 3, 2009, we held approximately 1,000 u.s. patents and 550 foreign patents, and had approximately 575 u.s. patent applications pending and 1,450 foreign patent applications pending. unpatented research, development and engineering skills also make an important contribution to our business. while our intellectual property rights in the aggregate are important to our business and the operations of our business segments, we do not consider our business or any business segment to be materially dependent upon any single patent, license or other intellectual property right, or any group of related patents, licenses or other intellectual property rights. we are engaged in a proactive patent licensing program and have entered into a number of licenses and cross-license agreements, some of which generate royalty income. although existing license agreements have generated income in past years and may do so in the future, there can be no assurances we will enter into additional income-producing license agreements. from time to time we engage in litigation to protect our patents and other intellectual property. any of our patents, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights and other proprietary rights could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or may not provide competitive advantages. for further discussion of risks relating to intellectual property, see item 1a. risk factors of this report. with regard to patents relating to our government communications systems segment, the u.s. government often has an irrevocable, non-exclusive, royalty-free license, pursuant to which the u.s. government may use or authorize others to use the inventions covered by such patents. pursuant to similar arrangements, the u.s. government may consent to our use of inventions covered by patents owned by other persons. numerous trademarks used on or in connection with our products are also considered to be a valuable asset. environmental and other regulations our facilities and operations are subject to numerous domestic and international laws and regulations designed to protect the environment, particularly with regard to wastes and emissions. the applicable environmental laws and regulations are common within the industries and markets in which we operate and serve. we believe that we have complied with these requirements and that such compliance has not had a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. based upon currently available information, we do not expect expenditures to protect the environment and to comply with current environmental laws and regulations over the next several years to have a material impact on our competitive position or financial condition, but we can give no assurance that such expenditures will not exceed current expectations. if future laws and regulations contain more stringent requirements than 14 table of contents presently anticipated, actual expenditures may be higher than our present estimates of those expenditures. we have installed waste treatment facilities and pollution control equipment to satisfy legal requirements and to achieve our waste minimization and prevention goals. we did not spend material amounts on environmental capital projects in fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008 or fiscal 2007. a portion of our environmental expenditures relates to discontinued operations for which we have retained certain environmental liabilities. we currently expect that amounts to be spent for environmental-related capital projects will not be material in fiscal 2010. these amounts may increase in future years. additional information regarding environmental and regulatory matters is set forth in item 3. legal proceedings of this report and in note 1: significant accounting policies in the notes. electronic products are subject to governmental environmental regulation in a number of jurisdictions. equipment produced by our broadcast communications segment, in particular, is subject to domestic and international requirements requiring end-of-life management and/or restricting materials in products delivered to customers, including the european union directive 2002/96/ec on waste electrical and electronic equipment ( weee ) and directive 2002/95/ec on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment ( rohs ), as amended. other jurisdictions have adopted similar legislation. such requirements typically are not applicable to most equipment produced by our government communications systems and rf communications segments. we believe that we have complied with such rules and regulations, where applicable, with respect to our existing products sold into such jurisdictions. we intend to comply with such rules and regulations with respect to our future products. broadcast and wireless communications (whether tv, radio or telecommunications) are also subject to governmental regulation. equipment produced by our broadcast communications and rf communications segments, in particular, is subject to domestic and international requirements to avoid interference among users of radio and television frequencies and to permit interconnection of telecommunications equipment. we believe that we have complied with such rules and regulations with respect to our existing products, and we intend to comply with such rules and regulations with respect to our future products. governmental reallocation of the frequency spectrum also could impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. raw materials and supplies because of the diversity of our products and services, as well as the wide geographic dispersion of our facilities, we use numerous sources for the wide array of raw materials (such as electronic components, printed circuit boards, metals and plastics) needed for our operations and for our products. we are dependent upon suppliers and subcontractors for a large number of components and subsystems and the ability of our suppliers and subcontractors to adhere to customer or regulatory materials restrictions and to meet performance and quality specifications and delivery schedules. in some instances, we are dependent upon one or a few sources, either because of the specialized nature of a particular item or because of local content preference requirements pursuant to which we operate on a given project. while we have been affected by financial and performance issues of some of our suppliers and subcontractors, we have not been materially adversely affected by the inability to obtain raw materials or products. on occasion, we have experienced component shortages from vendors as a result of the rohs environmental regulations in the european union or similar regulations in other jurisdictions. these regulations may cause a spike in demand for certain electronic components (such as lead-free components), resulting in industry-wide supply chain shortages. to date, these component shortages have not had a material adverse effect on our business. for further discussion of risks relating to subcontractors and suppliers, see item 1a. risk factors of this report. seasonality we do not consider any material portion of our business to be seasonal. various factors can affect the distribution of our revenue between accounting periods, including the timing of contract awards and the timing and availability of u.s. government funding, as well as the timing of product deliveries and customer acceptance. employees we employed approximately 15,400 employees at the end of fiscal 2009 compared with approximately 14,700 employees at the end of fiscal 2008. approximately 92 percent of our employees as of the end of fiscal 2009 were located in the united states. a significant number of employees in our government communications systems segment possess a security clearance. we also utilize a number of independent contractors. none of our employees in the united states is represented by a labor union. in certain international subsidiaries, our employees are represented by workers councils or statutory labor unions. in general, we believe that our relations with our employees are good. 15 table of contents website access to harris reports; available information general. we maintain an internet website at http://www.harris.com . our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to such reports, filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act, are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. we also will provide the reports in electronic or paper form free of charge upon request. we also make available free of charge on our website our annual report to shareholders and proxy statement. our website and the information posted thereon are not incorporated into this report or any current or other periodic report that we file with or furnish to the sec. all reports we file with or furnish to the sec also are available free of charge via the sec electronic data gathering and retrieval ( edgar ) system available through the sec website at http://www.sec.gov . additional information relating to our businesses, including our operating segments, is set forth in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report. corporate governance principles and committee charters. we previously adopted corporate governance principles, which are available on the corporate governance section of our website at www.harris.com/harris/cg/ . in addition, the charters of each of the committees of our board, namely, the audit committee, business conduct and corporate responsibility committee, corporate governance committee, finance committee and management development and compensation committee, are also available on the corporate governance section of our website. a copy of the charters is also available free of charge upon written request to our secretary at harris corporation, 1025 west nasa boulevard, melbourne, florida 32919. certifications. we have filed with the sec the certifications required by section 302 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 as exhibits to this report. in addition, an annual ceo certification was submitted by our chief executive officer to the new york stock exchange ( nyse ) in november 2008 in accordance with the nyse listing standards, which included a certification that he was not aware of any violation by harris of the nyse corporate governance listing standards. item 1a. risk factors. we have described many of the trends and other factors that could impact our business and future results in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report. in addition, our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition are subject to, and could be materially adversely affected by, various risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, those set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or our anticipated future results. we depend on u.s. government customers for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of this relationship or a shift in u.s. government funding priorities could have adverse consequences on our future business. we are highly dependent on sales to u.s. government customers. the percentage of our net revenue that was derived from sales to u.s. government customers, including the dod and intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military sales through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, was approximately 79 percent in fiscal 2009, 79 percent in fiscal 2008 and 75 percent in fiscal 2007. therefore, any significant disruption or deterioration of our relationship with the u.s. government would significantly reduce our revenue. our u.s. government programs must compete with programs managed by other government contractors for limited resources and for uncertain levels of funding. our competitors continuously engage in efforts to expand their business relationships with the u.s. government and will continue these efforts in the future, and the u.s. government may choose to use other contractors. we expect that a majority of the business that we seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through competitive bidding. the u.s. government has increasingly relied on certain types of contracts that are subject to a competitive bidding process, including idiq, gwac, gsa schedule and other multi-award contracts, which has resulted in greater competition and increased pricing pressure. we operate in highly competitive markets and our competitors may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do in some areas, and we may not be able to continue to win competitively awarded contracts or to obtain task orders under multi-award contracts. further, the competitive bidding process involves substantial costs, the significant cost and managerial time to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us, and the risk that we may fail to accurately estimate the resources and costs required to fulfill any contract awarded to us. following any contract award, we may experience significant expense or delay, contract modification or contract rescission as a result of our competitors protesting or challenging contracts awarded to us in competitive bidding. we also compete with the u.s. government own capabilities and federal non-profit contract research centers. budget decisions made by the u.s. government are 16 table of contents outside of our control and have long-term consequences for our business. a shift in u.s. government spending priorities or an increase in non-procurement spending at the expense of our programs, or a reduction in total u.s. government spending, could have material adverse consequences on our future business. we depend significantly on our u.s. government contracts, which often are only partially funded, subject to immediate termination, and heavily regulated and audited. the termination or failure to fund one or more of these contracts could have an adverse impact on our business. over its lifetime, a u.s. government program may be implemented by the award of many different individual contracts and subcontracts. the funding of u.s. government programs is subject to congressional appropriations. although multi-year contracts may be authorized and appropriated in connection with major procurements, congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis. procurement funds are typically made available for obligation over the course of three years. consequently, programs often receive only partial funding initially, and additional funds are obligated only as congress authorizes further appropriations. the termination of funding for a u.s. government program would result in a loss of anticipated future revenue attributable to that program, which could have an adverse impact on our operations. in addition, the termination of a program or the failure to commit additional funds to a program that already has been started could result in lost revenue and increase our overall costs of doing business. generally, u.s. government contracts are subject to oversight audits by u.s. government representatives. such audits could result in adjustments to our contract costs. any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, and such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. we have recorded contract revenues based upon costs we expect to realize upon final audit. however, we do not know the outcome of any future audits and adjustments and we may be required to materially reduce our revenues or profits upon completion and final negotiation of audits. negative audit findings could also result in termination of a contract, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the u.s. government. in addition, u.s. government contracts generally contain provisions permitting termination, in whole or in part, without prior notice at the u.s. government convenience upon the payment only for work done and commitments made at the time of termination. we can give no assurance that one or more of our u.s. government contracts will not be terminated under these circumstances. also, we can give no assurance that we would be able to procure new contracts to offset the revenue or backlog lost as a result of any termination of our u.s. government contracts. because a significant portion of our revenue is dependent on our performance and payment under our u.s. government contracts, the loss of one or more large contracts could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. our government business also is subject to specific procurement regulations and a variety of socio-economic and other requirements. these requirements, although customary in u.s. government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. these costs might increase in the future, thereby reducing our margins, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could lead to suspension or debarment from u.s. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. among the causes for debarment are violations of various laws, including those related to procurement integrity, export control, u.s. government security regulations, employment practices, protection of the environment, accuracy of records, proper recording of costs and foreign corruption. the termination of a u.s. government contract or relationship as a result of any of these acts would have an adverse impact on our operations and could have an adverse effect on our standing and eligibility for future u.s. government contracts. we enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses in the event of cost overruns or a significant increase in inflation. we have a number of firm fixed-price contracts. in fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, approximately 36 percent and 35 percent, respectively, of the total combined revenue of our rf communications and government communications systems segments was from fixed-price contracts. these contracts allow us to benefit from cost savings, but they carry the risk of potential cost overruns because we assume all of the cost burden. if our initial estimates are incorrect, we can lose money on these contracts. u.s. government contracts can expose us to potentially large losses because the u.s. government can hold us responsible for completing a project or, in certain circumstances, paying the entire cost of its replacement by another provider regardless of the size or foreseeability of any cost overruns that occur over the life of the contract. because many of these contracts involve new technologies and applications and can last for years, unforeseen events, such as technological difficulties, fluctuations in the price of raw materials, problems with our suppliers and cost overruns, can result in the contractual price becoming less favorable or even unprofitable to us over time. the united states also may experience a significant increase in inflation. a significant increase in inflation rates could have a significant 17 table of contents adverse impact on the profitability of these contracts. furthermore, if we do not meet contract deadlines or specifications, we may need to renegotiate contracts on less favorable terms, be forced to pay penalties or liquidated damages or suffer major losses if the customer exercises its right to terminate. in addition, some of our contracts have provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights, and if we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts we may not realize their full benefits. our results of operations are dependent on our ability to maximize our earnings from our contracts. cost overruns could have an adverse impact on our financial results. furthermore, the potential impact of this risk on our financial results would increase if the mix of our contracts and programs shifted toward a greater percentage of firm fixed-price contracts. we derive a substantial portion of our revenue from international operations and are subject to the risks of doing business internationally, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates. we are dependent on sales to customers outside the united states. in fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, revenue from products exported from the u.s. or manufactured abroad was 20 percent, 17 percent and 17 percent, respectively, of our total revenue. approximately 25 percent of our international business in fiscal 2009 was transacted in local currency environments. losses resulting from currency rate fluctuations can adversely affect our results. we expect that international revenue will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue. also, a significant portion of our international revenue is in less-developed countries. we are subject to risks of doing business internationally, including: currency exchange controls, fluctuations of currency and currency revaluations; the laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments relating to investments and operations, as well as u.s. laws affecting the activities of u.s. companies abroad; changes in regulatory requirements, including imposition of tariffs or embargoes, export controls and other trade restrictions; uncertainties and restrictions concerning the availability of funding, credit or guarantees; the complexity and necessity of using international dealers, distributors, sales representatives and consultants; the difficulty of managing an organization doing business in many countries; import and export licensing requirements and regulations, as well as unforeseen changes in export regulations; uncertainties as to local laws and enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights and occasional requirements for onerous contract clauses; and rapid changes in government, economic and political policies, political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of international boycotts or u.s. anti-boycott legislation. we may not be successful in obtaining the necessary export licenses to conduct certain operations abroad, and congress may prevent proposed sales to certain foreign governments. we must first obtain export and other licenses and authorizations from various u.s. government agencies before we are permitted to sell certain products and technologies outside of the united states. for example, the u.s. department of state must notify congress at least 15-60 days, depending on the size and location of the sale, prior to authorizing certain sales of defense equipment and services to foreign governments. during that time, congress may take action to block the proposed sale. we can give no assurance that we will continue to be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses or authorizations or that congress will not prevent or delay certain sales. any significant impairment of our ability to sell products or technologies outside of the united states could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. our future success will depend on our ability to develop new products and technologies that achieve market acceptance in our current and future markets. both our commercial and government businesses are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry standards. accordingly, our performance depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: identify emerging technological trends in our current and target markets; develop and maintain competitive products; enhance our offerings by adding innovative hardware, software or other features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors; and develop, manufacture and bring cost-effective offerings to market quickly. we believe that, in order to remain competitive in the future, we will need to continue to develop new products and technologies, requiring the investment of significant financial resources. the need to make these expenditures 18 table of contents could divert our attention and resources from other projects, and we cannot be sure that these expenditures ultimately will lead to the timely development of new products or technologies. due to the design complexity of some of our products and technologies, we may experience delays in completing development and introducing new products or technologies in the future. any delays could result in increased costs of development or redirect resources from other projects. in addition, we cannot provide assurances that the markets for our products or technologies will develop as we currently anticipate. the failure of our products or technologies to gain market acceptance could significantly reduce our revenue and harm our business. furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing products or technologies that gain market acceptance in advance of our products or technologies, or that our competitors will not develop new products or technologies that cause our existing products or technologies to become non-competitive or obsolete, which could adversely affect our results of operations. the future direction of the domestic and global economies also will have a significant impact on our overall performance. we participate in markets that are often subject to uncertain economic conditions, which makes it difficult to estimate growth in our markets and, as a result, future income and expenditures. we participate in u.s. and international markets that are subject to uncertain economic conditions. as a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth in some of the markets in which we participate. because all components of our budgeting and forecasting are dependent upon estimates of growth in the markets we serve, the uncertainty renders estimates of future income and expenditures even more difficult. as a result, we may make significant investments and expenditures but never realize the anticipated benefits. we cannot predict the consequences of future geo-political events, but they may adversely affect the markets in which we operate, our ability to insure against risks, our operations or our profitability. ongoing instability and current conflicts in the middle east and the potential for further conflicts and future terrorist activities and other recent geo-political events have created economic and political uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and profitability. these matters cause uncertainty in the world financial and insurance markets and may increase significantly the political, economic and social instability in the geographic areas in which we operate. these matters also have caused the premiums charged for our insurance coverages to increase and may cause further increases or some coverages to be unavailable altogether. we have made, and may continue to make, strategic acquisitions that involve significant risks and uncertainties. we have made, and we may continue to make, strategic acquisitions that involve significant risks and uncertainties. these risks and uncertainties include: difficulty in identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions, including the risk that our due diligence does not identify or fully assess valuation issues, potential liabilities or other acquisition risks; difficulty in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and cost-effective manner and the risk that we encounter significant unanticipated costs or other problems associated with integration; challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits expected from acquisitions; risk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the strategic acquisitions do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; risk that we assume significant liabilities that exceed the limitations of any applicable indemnification provisions or the financial resources of any indemnifying parties; potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses; and risk of diverting the attention of senior management from our existing operations. disputes with our subcontractors and the inability of our subcontractors to perform, or our key suppliers to timely deliver our components or parts, could cause our products to be produced in an untimely or unsatisfactory manner. on many of our contracts, we engage subcontractors. we may have disputes with our subcontractors, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor, customer concerns about the subcontract, our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders under a subcontract, our hiring of the personnel of a subcontractor or vice versa or the subcontractor failure to comply with applicable law. in addition, there are certain parts or components for many of our products which we source from other manufacturers or vendors. some of our suppliers, from time to time, experience financial and operational difficulties, which may impact their ability to supply the materials, components and subsystems that we require. any inability to develop alternative sources of supply on a cost-effective and timely basis could materially impair our ability to manufacture and deliver products to our customers. we can give no assurances that we will be free from disputes with our subcontractors, material supply problems or component or subsystems problems in the future. also, our 19 table of contents subcontractors and other suppliers may not be able to maintain the quality of the materials, components and subsystems they supply, which might result in greater product returns and warranty claims and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. third parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their intellectual property rights, and third parties may infringe upon our intellectual property rights. many of the markets we serve are characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights, which often has resulted in protracted and expensive litigation. third parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing or to have infringed directly or indirectly upon those intellectual property rights. claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. moreover, we may not be able to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us, or at all. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain of our products. our success depends in large part on our proprietary technology. we rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, know-how, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. if we fail to successfully protect and enforce these rights, our competitive position could suffer. our pending patent and trademark registration applications may not be allowed, or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents or trademark registrations. in addition, our patents may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and police our intellectual property rights. we may not be able to detect infringement and our competitive position may be harmed before we do so. in addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. the outcome of litigation or arbitration in which we are involved is unpredictable and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we are defendants in a number of litigation matters and are involved in a number of arbitrations. these actions may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. no assurances can be given that the results of these or new matters will be favorable to us. an adverse resolution of lawsuits or arbitrations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to customer credit risk. we sometimes provide medium-term and long-term customer financing. customer financing arrangements may include all or a portion of the purchase price for our products and services, as well as working capital. we also may assist customers in obtaining financing from banks and other sources on a recourse or non-recourse basis. while we generally have been able to place a portion of our customer financings with third-party lenders, or to otherwise insure a portion of this risk, a portion of these financings is provided directly by us. there can be higher risks associated with some of these financings, particularly when provided to start-up operations such as local network providers, to customers in developing countries or to customers in specific financing-intensive areas of the telecommunications industry. if customers fail to meet their obligations, losses could be incurred and such losses could have an adverse effect on us. our losses could be much greater if it becomes more difficult to place or insure against these risks with third parties. these risks may increase when the availability of credit decreases. we face certain significant risk exposures and potential liabilities that may not be covered adequately by insurance or indemnity. we are exposed to liabilities that are unique to the products and services we provide. a significant portion of our business relates to designing, developing and manufacturing advanced defense and technology systems and products. new technologies associated with these systems and products may be untested or unproven. components of certain of the defense systems and products we develop are inherently dangerous. failures of satellites, missile systems, air traffic control systems, homeland security applications and aircraft have the potential to cause loss of life and extensive property damage. in most circumstances, we may receive indemnification from the u.s. government. while we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, and we may be forced to bear substantial costs from an accident or incident. it also is not possible to obtain insurance to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. substantial claims resulting from an incident in excess of u.s. government indemnity and our insurance coverage could harm our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. moreover, any accident or incident for which we are liable, even if fully insured, could negatively affect our standing among our customers and the public, thereby making it more difficult for us to compete effectively, and could significantly impact the cost and availability of adequate insurance in the future. 20 table of contents changes in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. our future effective tax rate may be adversely affected by a number of factors including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not fully deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation expense; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; changes in domestic or international tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws; and the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact our results of operations for future periods. the effects of the recession in the united states and general downturn in the global economy could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results or financial condition. the united states economy is in recession and there has been a general downturn in the global economy. although governments worldwide, including the u.s. government, have initiated sweeping economic plans, we are unable to predict the impact, severity and duration of these economic events, which could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results or financial condition in a number of ways. possible effects of these economic events include the following: the u.s. government could reprioritize its spending away from the government contracts in which we participate. we may experience declines in revenues, profitability and cash flows as a result of reduced orders, payment delays or other factors caused by the economic problems of our customers and prospective customers. we may experience supply chain delays, disruptions or other problems associated with financial constraints faced by our suppliers and subcontractors. we may incur increased costs or experience difficulty with future borrowings under our commercial paper program or credit facilities or in the debt markets, or otherwise with financing our operating, investing (including any future acquisitions) or financing activities. we have significant operations in florida and other locations that could be materially and adversely impacted in the event of a natural disaster or other significant disruption. our corporate headquarters and significant operations of our government communications systems segment are located in florida, where major hurricanes have occurred. our worldwide operations could be subject to natural disasters or other significant disruptions, including hurricanes, typhoons, tsunamis, floods, earthquakes, fires, water shortages, other extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics, acts of terrorism, power shortages and blackouts, telecommunications failures, cyber attacks and other natural and manmade disasters or disruptions. in the event of such a natural disaster or other disruption, we could experience disruptions or interruptions to our operations or the operations of our suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers or customers; destruction of facilities; and/or loss of life, all of which could materially increase our costs and expenses and materially adversely affect our business, revenue and financial condition. changes in future business conditions could cause business investments and/or recorded goodwill to become impaired, resulting in substantial losses and write-downs that would reduce our results of operations. as part of our overall strategy, we will, from time to time, acquire a minority or majority interest in a business. these investments are made upon careful target analysis and due diligence procedures designed to achieve a desired return or strategic objective. these procedures often involve certain assumptions and judgment in determining acquisition price. after acquisition, unforeseen issues could arise which adversely affect the anticipated returns or which are otherwise not recoverable as an adjustment to the purchase price. even after careful integration efforts, actual operating results may vary significantly from initial estimates. goodwill accounts for approximately 34 percent of our recorded total assets as of july 3, 2009. we evaluate the recoverability of recorded goodwill amounts annually, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. the annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. principally, a decrease in expected reporting segment cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill. for additional information on accounting policies we have in place for goodwill impairment, see our discussion under critical accounting policies and 21 table of contents estimates in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report and note 1: significant accounting policies and note 22: impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets in the notes. in order to be successful, we must attract and retain key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. our business has a continuing need to attract significant numbers of skilled personnel, including personnel holding security clearances, to support our growth and to replace individuals who have terminated employment due to retirement or for other reasons. to the extent that the demand for qualified personnel exceeds supply, as has been the case from time to time in recent years, we could experience higher labor, recruiting or training costs in order to attract and retain such employees, or could experience difficulties in performing under our contracts if our needs for such employees were unmet. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 54 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of doing business, we are exposed to the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rates and changes in interest rates. we employ established policies and procedures governing the use of financial instruments to manage our exposure to such risks. for a discussion of such policies and procedures and the related risks, see financial risk management in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report, which is incorporated by reference into this item 7a. 54risk factors 16 risk factors of this report. all forward-looking statements are qualified by, and should be read in conjunction with, those risk factors. forward-looking statements are made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended (the securities act ), and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the exchange act ), and we undertake no obligation, other than imposed by law, to update forward-looking statements to reflect further developments or information obtained after the date of filing of this report or, in the case of any document incorporated by reference, the date of that document, and disclaim any obligation to do so. part i item 1. business. harris harris corporation, together with its subsidiaries, is an international communications and information technology company serving government and commercial markets in more than 150 countries. we are dedicated to developing best-in-class assured communications products, systems and services for global markets, including rf communications, government communications and broadcast communications. harris corporation was incorporated in delaware in 1926 as the successor to three companies founded in the 1890s. our principal executive offices are located at 1025 west nasa boulevard, melbourne, florida 32919, and our telephone number is (321) 727-9100. our common stock is listed on the new york stock exchange under the symbol hrs. on july 2, 2010, we employed approximately 15,800 people. unless the context otherwise requires, the terms we, our, us, company and harris as used in this report refer to harris corporation and its subsidiaries. general we structure our operations primarily around the products and services we sell and the markets we serve, and we report our financial results in the following three business segments: our rf communications segment, comprised of our (i) tactical radio communications and (ii) public safety and professional communications businesses; our government communications systems segment, comprised of our (i) defense programs, (ii) national intelligence programs, (iii) civil programs and (iv) it services businesses; and our broadcast communications segment, comprised of our (i) workflow, infrastructure and networking solutions, (ii) media and (iii) transmission systems businesses. in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, in connection with the may 27, 2009 spin-off (the spin-off ) in the form of a taxable pro rata dividend to our shareholders of all the shares of harris stratex networks, inc. (now known as aviat networks, inc.) ( hstx ) common stock owned by us, we eliminated as a reporting segment our former hstx segment. accordingly, our historical financial results have been restated to account for hstx as discontinued operations for all periods presented in this report, and unless otherwise specified, disclosures in this report relate 1 table of contents solely to our continuing operations. for additional information regarding discontinued operations, see note 3: discontinued operations in the notes to consolidated financial statements in this report (the notes ). financial information with respect to all of our other activities, including corporate costs not allocated to the business segments or discontinued operations, is reported as part of the unallocated corporate expense or non-operating income (loss) line items in our consolidated financial statements. recent acquisitions acquisition of patriot technologies, llc. on november 16, 2009, we acquired patriot technologies, llc ( patriot ), which was privately held and had about 100 employees. patriot is a leading provider of department of veterans affairs ( va ) healthcare information technology ( it ), imaging and enterprise software solutions. we report patriot within our government communications systems segment. the acquisition of patriot expanded our position as a leading provider of integrated and interoperable healthcare it solutions for the u.s. government market. additionally, we believe the acquisition further positions us for providing a comprehensive solution addressing the national priority of integrating the va and military health systems. acquisition of signacert, inc. on may 28, 2010, we acquired privately held signacert, inc. ( signacert ), a leading provider of it compliance solutions that form the foundation for software supply chain assurance. we report signacert within our government communications systems segment. the acquisition of signacert expanded our position as a leading provider of cyber solutions for u.s. government and commercial customers, strengthened our cyber leadership team, brings discriminating technology to our cyber portfolio and better positions us to provide trusted, comprehensive solutions that address the national priority of enhancing critical cyber infrastructure. subsequent event acquisition of caprock on july 30, 2010, after the end of our fiscal 2010, we acquired privately held caprock holdings, inc. and its subsidiaries, including caprock communications, inc. (collectively, caprock ), a global provider of mission-critical managed satellite communications services for the government, energy and maritime markets. caprock highly reliable solutions include broadband internet access, voice over internet protocol ( voip ) telephony, wideband networking and real-time video, delivered to nearly 2,000 customer sites around the world, including many very harsh and remote locations, by leveraging best-of-breed partnerships, technical expertise and its robust global infrastructure that includes four self-owned and operated teleports and eleven regional support centers across north america, central and south america, europe, west africa and asia pacific. the purchase price for caprock was $525 million in cash, subject to possible post-closing upward or downward adjustment. we will report caprock within our government communications systems segment. the acquisition of caprock increased the breadth of our assured communications capabilities while enabling us to enter new vertical markets and increase our international presence. financial information about our business segments financial information with respect to our business segments, including revenue, operating income or loss and total assets, and with respect to our operations outside the united states, is contained in note 25: business segments in the notes and is incorporated herein by reference. description of business by segment rf communications rf communications is a global supplier of secure tactical radio communications and embedded high-grade encryption solutions for military and government organizations and also of secure communications systems and equipment for public safety, utility and transportation markets. rf communications is comprised of our (i) tactical radio communications and (ii) public safety and professional communications businesses. tactical radio communications: we design, develop and manufacture a comprehensive line of secure radio communications products and systems for manpack, handheld, soldier-worn, vehicular, strategic fixed-site and shipboard applications that operate in various radio frequency bands high-frequency ( hf ), very high-frequency ( vhf ) and ultra high-frequency ( uhf ) over satellite communications ( satcom ) and in multiband mode. these radio systems are highly flexible, interoperable and capable of supporting diverse mission requirements. our falcon family of tactical radios is built on a software-defined radio platform that is reprogrammable to add features or software upgrades. our falcon radios also have the highest grade embedded encryption and provide highly mobile, secure and reliable network communications capability without relying on a fixed infrastructure. this capability allows warfighters, for example, to remain connected with each other, their command structures and 2 table of contents support organizations, and gives them the ability to communicate information and maintain situational awareness of both friendly and opposing forces, which are critical to both the safety and success of their missions. unlike many of our competitors in the u.s. government market, we operate this business on a commercial customer and market-driven business model, as opposed to a government programs-driven business model. this means that we anticipate market needs, invest our internal research and development resources, build to our internal forecast, and provide ready-to-ship, commercial, off-the-shelf ( cots ) products to customers more quickly than customers can typically obtain similar products under government-funded programs. our falcon iii family of radios is the next generation of multiband, multi-mission tactical radios, which supports the u.s. military joint tactical radio system ( jtrs ) requirements as well as network-centric operations worldwide. our falcon iii radios address the full range of current mission and interoperability requirements and are fully upgradeable to address changing technical standards and mission requirements of the future. advances in our falcon iii radios include extended frequency range, significant reductions in weight and size compared with previous generations and programmable encryption. our falcon iii multiband handheld radio, the an/prc-152(c) ( 152c ), is the world most widely deployed jtrs-approved software-defined handheld radio and was our first falcon iii radio to be fielded. we have successfully fielded more than 100,000 152cs, which are widely fielded by all branches of the u.s. department of defense ( dod ), many allies worldwide and u.s. federal agencies. the 152c offers users a wide range of capabilities, such as legacy single channel ground and airborne system ( sincgars ) interoperability; uhf ground-to-ground line-of-sight communications; close-air support; tactical satcom; and the association of public safety communications officials international ( apco ) p25 waveform to provide direct communications with first responders. the 152c also serves as the handheld-based transceiver of our falcon iii an/vrc-110, a high-performance, multiband vehicular system that offers the added feature of easy vehicle dismount a grab-and-go feature that delivers continuous communications when removed from the vehicle, an important capability in urban environments. our falcon iii multiband manpack radio, the an/prc-117g ( 117g ), is the first jtrs software communications architecture ( jtrs sca )-certified and national security agency ( nsa ) type-1 certified manpack radio system providing wideband networking capability, enabling the transition to a networked battlefield communications environment and high-bandwidth applications such as streaming video, simultaneous voice and data feeds, collaborative chat, and connectivity to secure networks ( siprnet ). the 117g wideband network access capabilities give warfighters and field commanders critical real-time information. the 117g has been deployed to all branches of the dod and is being used in a wide variety of ground, vehicular and airborne applications, including intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance ( isr ). the radio offers an extended frequency range of 30 megahertz to 2 gigahertz. the 117g includes a remote operated video enhanced receiver ( rover ) interoperable mode that provides warfighters on the battlefield with the ability to receive live video directly from unmanned aerial vehicles ( uavs ). this capability allows users to receive video feeds directly from uavs without an intermediary or having to pass that information from a base station. in fiscal 2010, we announced the development of new mission modules that can be integrated with new and already fielded 117gs to provide greater flexibility and mission-specific customization of the radios. the modules enable users to add to the 117g, quickly, seamlessly, selectively and on an as-needed basis, advanced capabilities and expanded functions such as a second wideband radio channel, an hf radio channel or an isr module. the modules also are a future focused solution designed to keep pace with changing technologies in tactical communications, allowing integration into the 117g of newly developed capabilities to address future requirements. our cryptographic solutions encompass nsa-certified products and systems that range from single integrated circuits to major communications systems, including our sierra and citadel embedded encryption solutions and our secnet 11 and secnet 54 tm internet protocol ( ip ) communications families of communications security ( comsec ) terminals. in the international market, our tactical radios are the standard of nato and partnership for peace countries and are sold to more than 100 countries through our strong, longstanding international distribution channels consisting of regional sales offices and a broad dealer network. international tactical radio demand is being driven by continuing tactical communications modernization and standardization programs to provide more sophisticated communications capabilities to address traditional and emerging threats and to provide interoperability. in fiscal 2010, we received tactical radio orders from, and/or made deliveries to, a wide range of international customers, including australia, ethiopia, iraq, mexico, pakistan, saudi arabia, sweden and yemen, as well as other countries in the middle east and central asia. additionally, we are providing integrated communications systems for the international market. our integrated systems offerings are largely based on our products, but include other 3 table of contents companies products, as well as a wide variety of applications, in order to implement integrated command, control, communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance ( c4isr ) systems for many different types of platforms, including command post and transit case systems, vehicular and shelter communications systems and specialized airborne applications, which are frequently used in border security and surveillance systems. public safety and professional communications: we supply assured communications systems and equipment for public safety, federal, utility, commercial and transportation markets, with products ranging from complete end-to-end wireless network infrastructure solutions, including advanced ip voice and data networks, that support multiple platforms and provide interoperability among disparate systems, to portable and mobile single-band and multiband radios, to public safety-grade broadband video and data solutions. on may 29, 2009, we acquired substantially all of the assets of the tyco electronics wireless systems business ( wireless systems ) (formerly known as m/a-com). our acquisition of wireless systems served to form our public safety and professional communications business. this business has more than 80 years of experience and supports over 500 systems around the world. as part of our business of designing, building, distributing, maintaining and supplying wireless communications systems, we offer our voice, interoperability, data and access ( vida ) network solution a unique, cost-effective ip-based network that is flexible, responsive, expandable and easily upgradeable, and that supports a full line of communications systems, including opensky , networkfirst, p25 ip and enhanced digital access communication system ( edacs ), allowing seamless interconnection of diverse systems. our vida network solutions currently serve as the backbone in some of the largest and most advanced statewide and regional communications networks in north america, including the commonwealth of pennsylvania and state of florida. in addition to a full range of single-band land mobile radio terminals, we offer our unity tm family of multiband radios, including the unity xg-100p handheld radio and the new unity xg-100m full-spectrum mobile radio. our unity multiband radios cover all public safety frequency bands in a single radio; operate on apco p25 conventional and trunked systems; are backwards compatible with analog fm systems; and include advanced capabilities, such as an internal global positioning system ( gps ) receiver for situational awareness, internal secure bluetooth wireless technology, and background noise suppression features. they also include true software-defined radio architecture that allows flexibility for future growth, including a software-only upgrade to apco p25 phase 2, the next-generation emerging standard for mission-critical communications. our unity radios multiband, multi-mode capabilities enable a single radio to communicate with multiple organizations, jurisdictions and agencies operating on different frequencies and systems, thus providing a significant improvement over most current radio systems for u.s. public safety, which are not interoperable and thus require users to carry multiple radios or route transmissions through ad-hoc network bridges, often configured at the time of an emergency, and creating instances where agencies responding to a common incident cannot talk to each other. revenue, operating income and backlog: revenue for the rf communications segment increased 17 percent to $2,067 million in fiscal 2010 compared with $1,761 million in fiscal 2009, and was $1,507 million in fiscal 2008. segment operating income increased 24 percent to $707.4 million in fiscal 2010 compared with $571.5 million in fiscal 2009, and was $525.5 million in fiscal 2008. the rf communications segment contributed 40 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2010 compared with 35 percent in fiscal 2009 and 32 percent in fiscal 2008. the percentage of this segment revenue that was derived outside of the united states was 20 percent in fiscal 2010 compared with 39 percent in fiscal 2009 and 27 percent in fiscal 2008. u.s. government customers, including the dod and intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military sales through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, accounted for approximately 66 percent of this segment total revenue in fiscal 2010 compared with approximately 79 percent in fiscal 2009 and 82 percent in fiscal 2008. for a general description of our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, including a discussion of revenue generated from cost-reimbursement versus fixed-price contracts, see item 1. business principal customers; government contracts of this report. in general, this segment domestic products are sold and serviced directly to customers through its sales organization and through established distribution channels. internationally, this segment markets and sells its products and services through regional sales offices and established distribution channels. see item 1. business international business of this report. the funded backlog of unfilled orders for this segment was $1,764 million at july 2, 2010 compared with $922 million at july 3, 2009 and $982 million at june 27, 2008. we expect to fill approximately 79 percent of this funded backlog during fiscal 2011, but we can give no assurance of such fulfillment. additional information regarding funded backlog is provided under item 1. business funded and unfunded backlog of this report. for a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our u.s. government contracts 4 table of contents and subcontracts, see item 1. business principal customers; government contracts, item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this report. government communications systems government communications systems conducts advanced research studies and produces, integrates and supports highly reliable, net-centric communications and information technology that solve the mission-critical challenges of our defense, intelligence and civilian u.s. government customers, and is comprised of our (i) defense programs, (ii) national intelligence programs, (iii) civil programs and (iv) it services businesses. also, as described under item 1. business subsequent event acquisition of caprock of this report, on july 30, 2010, we acquired caprock, which we will report within our government communications systems segment. defense programs: we develop, supply and integrate communications and information processing products, systems and networks for a diverse base of aerospace, terrestrial and maritime applications supporting dod missions, and we are committed to delivering leading-edge technologies that support the military ongoing transformation to network-centric communications. our technologies are providing advanced mobile wideband networking capabilities to assure timely and secure network-centric capabilities across strategic, operational and tactical boundaries in support of the dod full spectrum of warfighting, intelligence and logistics missions. our major technology capabilities include satcom terminals for transportable ground, fixed-site and shipboard applications; flat-panel and phased-array antennas; aviation electronics for military jets and helicopters, including radios, digital maps, modems, sensors, data buses, fiber optics and microelectronics; high-speed data links and data networks for wireless communications and smart weapons; and advanced ground control systems. for example, our mobile ad hoc networking capability allows the military to take its communications infrastructure with it, creating mobile, self-forming and self-healing networks across the battlefield. our highband networking radio tm ( hnr ) provides secure, wireless, high-bandwidth (30 megabits per second), on-the-move communications among users of widely dispersed local area networks ( lans ) by establishing line-of-sight connectivity using a harris-developed waveform that automatically selects the best communications path available, allowing seamless communication of voice, video and data to all levels of command. we announced in fiscal 2009 that our hnr system was deployed to the u.s. army 101st airborne division (air assault) 2nd brigade combat team in iraq, which was the first combat deployment of the hnr system. in fiscal 2010, we were awarded a contract to provide hnrs to form the communications backbone of the u.s. army new integrated air and missile defense battle command system ( ibcs ). we also are currently producing and delivering hnrs under a warfighter information network-tactical ( win-t ) increment 2 low-rate initial production ( lrip ) contract. hnrs provide the first-ever use of directive beam technology to achieve higher throughput over longer distances in a robust, self-forming and self-healing directional mesh network. examples of ongoing programs for us include the following: the u.s. army modernization of enterprise terminals ( met ) program, for which we are developing, under a ten-year contract awarded to us in fiscal 2009 that is potentially worth $600 million, next-generation large satellite earth stations to provide the worldwide backbone for high-priority military communications and missile defense systems and to support ip and dedicated circuit connectivity within the global information grid ( gig ), providing critical reach-back capability for the warfighter; the f-35 joint strike fighter ( f-35 ), f-22 raptor and f/a-18e/f super hornet aircraft platform programs, for which we provide high-performance, advanced avionics such as high-speed fiber optic networking and switching, intra-flight data links, image processing, digital map software and other electronic components, including multifunction advanced data link ( madl ) communications subsystems primarily intended for stealth platform air-to-air communications and which allow f-35s to communicate in a stealth fashion with other network nodes without revealing their positions; the win-t program for the u.s. army, for which we are designing and testing the wireless transmission system architecture, applying our proven enabling technologies for wireless on-the-move communications, including phased arrays and high-speed secure wireless network solutions such as our hnr system; the multiple launch rocket system ( mlrs ) improved fire control system ( ifcs ) program for the u.s. army, for which we provide the launcher interface unit, power switching unit and weapon interface unit; and the commercial broadband satellite program ( cbsp ) for the u.s. navy, for which we supply broadband multiband satcom terminals that support essential mission requirements and provide enhanced morale-related communications services such as high-speed internet access and video communications, and for which we successfully completed in fiscal 2010 development of the unit level variant ( ulv ) and force level variant ( flv ) and delivery of the first production lot of ulv terminals. 5 table of contents national intelligence programs: a significant portion of this business involves classified programs. while classified programs generally are not discussed in this report, the operating results relating to classified programs are included in our consolidated financial statements. we believe that the business risks associated with those programs do not differ materially from the business risks of other u.s. government programs. we are a major developer, supplier and integrator of communications and information processing products, systems and networks for a diverse base of u.s. intelligence community programs, and we support the ongoing transformation of the intelligence community into a more collaborative enterprise. serving primarily national intelligence and security agency customers, including nsa and the national geospatial-intelligence agency ( nga ), we provide isr solutions that improve situational awareness, data collection accuracy and product analysis by correlating near real-time mission data and intelligence reference data for display and analysis by strategic and tactical planners and decision makers. our isr systems help to integrate information across the analyst workflow, accelerating the movement of information that has been collected and processed. we strive to produce innovative isr solutions that provide our customers with information dominance for battle-space superiority. for example, our image processing capabilities extend from algorithm development through delivery of operations systems, and we are providing advanced image exploitation and dissemination solutions for isr applications by advancing image processing, image data fusion, display technologies and digital product generation techniques. those technologies range from new techniques for merging and displaying imagery to automated techniques for image screening, cueing and remote visualization. also, our mapping and visualization capabilities provide complete, accurate and timely knowledge about the threat, the terrain, the status and the location of single or multiple opposing and friendly forces and their support by utilizing data, pictures, voice and video drawn from vast storage banks or from real-time input which can be transmitted around the world in fractions of a second. in addition, we have industry-leading capabilities in the architecture, design and development of highly specialized satellite antennas, structures, phased arrays and on-board processors, which are used to enable next-generation satellite systems to provide the u.s. military and intelligence communities with strategic and tactical advantages. we are also a leader in the design and development of antenna and reflector technologies for commercial space telecommunications applications. further, our capabilities include developing and supplying state-of-the-art wireless voice and data products and solutions, including surveillance and tracking equipment, spanning vehicular, man-portable, airborne and system-level applications for the u.s. intelligence community and law enforcement community. during fiscal 2010, we were awarded a number of new contracts and follow-on contracts under classified programs. we also have expanded our capabilities and customer footprint in the cyber security market through our acquisition of crucial security, inc. ( crucial ) in fiscal 2009. crucial offers an array of mission-enabling engineering solutions that address both offensive and defensive it security challenges, providing critical support to federal law enforcement and other u.s. government agencies. civil programs: we provide highly reliable, mission-critical communications and information processing systems that meet the most demanding needs of customers in the u.s. civilian federal market, including the federal aviation administration ( faa ), census bureau, national oceanic and atmospheric administration ( noaa ) and department of health and human services ( hhs ). we use our ability to implement and manage large, complex programs that integrate secure, advanced communications and information processing technologies in order to improve productivity and information processing and to achieve cost savings for our customers. our networks and information systems for large-scale, geographically dispersed enterprises offer advanced capabilities for collecting, processing, analyzing, interpreting, displaying, distributing, storing and retrieving data. we are a leader in satellite ground data processing and mission command-and-control ( c2 ) systems. our ground data processing systems consist of complex suites of hardware and software that receive sensor data from satellites, turning it into useable information. our c2 systems feature cots design and high levels of flexibility, are designed for government and commercial applications, and support single-satellite missions as well as some of the largest and most complex satellite fleets deployed. for example, we are the prime contractor under a 15-year contract, awarded in july 2002 that is potentially worth $3.5 billion, for the faa telecommunications infrastructure ( fti ) program to integrate, modernize, operate and maintain the communications infrastructure for the u.s. air traffic control system. fti is a modern, secure and efficient network providing voice, data and video communications deployed at more than 4,500 faa sites across the u.s., to enhance network efficiency, reliability and security and improve service while reducing operating costs. we designed and deployed the fti network and it is fully operational. the fti network consists of the operations network, the mission support network, the satellite network and the microwave network. the supporting infrastructure includes the network operations control centers ( noccs ) and security operations control centers 6 table of contents ( soccs ). the fti program has completed its equipment build-out phase and is transitioning to its telecommunication services and maintenance phase. in addition to being the prime contractor and system architect for the fti program, other faa programs we have developed include: the weather and radar processor, a weather system serving the en-route air traffic control environment; oasis, which provided integrated weather briefing and flight planning capabilities for preflight weather briefings and in-flight updates; the voice switching and control system, which provides the critical air-to-ground communications links between en-route aircraft and air traffic controllers throughout the continental united states; and the satellite-based alaskan national airspace system ( nas ) interfacility communications system. in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, we were awarded a six-year contract, potentially worth $97 million, with the faa for the weather and radar maintenance and sustainment services ii program, the scope of which includes software maintenance releases, depot support, on-site field support and engineering services at 22 operational faa facilities in the u.s. our acquisition in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 of the air traffic control business unit ( solacom atc ) of solacom technologies, inc. provided us with an immediate ability to address additional segments of the air traffic control voice/data systems market and we believe further positioned us to support the faa anticipated next generation air transportation system ( nextgen ) program. under the u.s. census bureau field data collection automation ( fdca ) program, awarded to us during fiscal 2006 in support of the 2010 census, we are the prime contractor responsible for integrating multiple automated systems. the fdca program is nearing completion. in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, we were awarded a ten-year contract, potentially worth $736 million, to provide a complete, end-to-end solution for noaa geostationary operational environmental satellite series r ground segment ( goes-r gs ) program, under which we will design, develop, deploy and operate the ground segment system, which will receive and process satellite data and generate and distribute weather data to more than 10,000 direct users. we will also provide the command and control of operational satellites under the goes-r gs program. following the close of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, we were awarded a ten-year contract, potentially worth $130 million, to supply antennas and control systems for noaa geostationary operational environmental satellite series r ( goes-r ) program. the antennas will provide communications links for command, telemetry and sensor data, as well as the communications link to direct data users. the new antennas will operate with next-generation goes-r satellites and will be compatible with existing goes-n through goes-p satellites. in our healthcare solutions business, we are continuing to focus on delivering standards-based interoperable healthcare solutions for government and commercial clients with security, privacy and patients in control of how their information is shared. for example, we are developing and integrating, under a contract from hhs, an open-source national health information network ( nhin ) connect gateway solution designed to enable seamless health information sharing among multiple federal agencies and regional healthcare providers. we are developing a multi-hospital military health network with image-sharing capabilities under the dod military health system global healthcare artifact and image management solution ( haims ) program. as described under item 1. business recent acquisitions of this report, we acquired patriot during the second quarter of fiscal 2010. in the third quarter of fiscal 2010, we were awarded a three-year contract, potentially worth $72 million, from the va for further improvements to the complex billing and collection activities of the va, one of the largest healthcare delivery organizations in the world with 21 networks and 170 medical centers nationwide. we were awarded the contract after successfully implementing a pilot project for the va mid-atlantic region. in our cyber integrated solutions business, we announced in fiscal 2010 that we are establishing the harris cyber integration center, which we believe can leverage our extensive cyber capabilities to address the evolving critical cyber infrastructure challenges of our government and commercial customers through a unique managed hosting service in a trusted environment. the harris cyber integration center will provide an integrated offering of infrastructure, managed security and tailored applications and services all provided as a secure, trusted total solution. the center will feature a trusted technology infrastructure, including a tested and accredited environment, supply chain integrity and advanced persistent threat deterrence. additionally, the center will offer industry-tailored applications and services on a tiered structure, providing both flexibility of service and superior value. the new harris cyber integration center will be located in a 140,000-square-foot facility in harrisonburg, virginia that we acquired in fiscal 2010. we expect the center to be fully operational in early calendar 2011. also in fiscal 2010, we acquired signacert as described under item 1. business recent acquisitions of this report. signacert it compliance solutions combine powerful change detection capabilities with custom and commercial software whitelists lists of software that are deemed safe and approved for a customer network. as an industry leader in cyber security, we have been using state-of-the-art technology assessment techniques and architecture engineering for decades to define and operate secure networks supporting nationally critical programs. we currently support three of the nation largest secure, mission-critical networks: (i) the fti program network, (ii) the global 7 table of contents communications and information systems ( patriot ) program network for the national reconnaissance office ( nro ), and (iii) the navy/marine corps intranet ( nmci ) program network. our technology, countermeasures and monitoring capabilities safeguard vital information systems that support the critical missions of u.s. military, intelligence and federal law enforcement customers. it services: we provide end-to-end solutions in mission-critical it transformation, managed solutions and information assurance. with over 3,000 professionals performing to the highest industry standards at locations worldwide, we offer demonstrated past performance, proven technical expertise and innovative solutions in supporting large-scale it programs that encompass the full technology lifecycle, including network design, deployment, operations and ongoing support. our distributed workforce, present in all 50 states, and extensive experience in performance-based contracting and managed it services, are key factors in delivering results to our defense, intelligence, homeland security, civil and commercial customers. our it transformation solutions use a holistic approach built on proven methodologies to design, implement and manage enterprise-wide architectures that align it goals with customers business and mission goals. our standards-based, repeatable it transformation solutions unify, streamline and modernize unwieldy and disparate networks and systems across distributed environments, resulting in highly simplified, flexible, secure and manageable network infrastructures. our managed services solutions include outsourced staffing and infrastructure, sustained by comprehensive operations and maintenance offerings, and are based on a flexible, scalable and repeatable service level agreement ( sla ) performance-driven business model, frequently in a fixed-price environment. our managed services solutions use an information technology infrastructure library ( itil )-based best-practices approach for optimizing and supporting it and communications environments, improving efficiencies, lowering operational costs and allowing customers to focus on mission performance. our information assurance solutions include architecture analysis; attack warning and defense; identity management; security assessments; certification and accreditation process support; forensics analysis and vulnerability remediation; system anomaly monitoring, detection and management; and physical security countermeasures. our information assurance solutions safeguard the confidentiality, integrity and availability of enterprise infrastructures, systems and critical business data over the full it lifecycle, from infrastructure design to integration and testing to operations and maintenance. those solutions meet widely used certification and accreditation standards, including the federal information security management act ( fisma ), the national security agency/central security service information system certification and accreditation process ( niscap ) and the department of defense information assurance certification and accreditation process ( diacap ). as examples, for nro, which designs, builds and operates u.s. reconnaissance satellites, we provide operations, maintenance and support services for its patriot program network in space and on the ground under a ten-year contract awarded in august 2004, potentially worth $1 billion, in support of nro global analyst community. we are providing the u.s. navy with comprehensive, end-to-end support for data, video and voice communications for over 700,000 users as a tier one subcontractor under the nmci program awarded in october 2000 and potentially worth $1.1 billion. in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, we were awarded a continuity of service subcontract under the nmci program to extend the support services we are providing and to add site support, beginning in the second quarter of fiscal 2011. under a five-year contract awarded by the u.s. department of state, bureau of consular affairs (the state 6 program) in august 2009, potentially worth $200 million, we provide it integration of installation, training, help desk, passport and configuration management services in support of more than 230 u.s. embassies and consulates around the world. we also provide system maintenance and engineering for the defense information systems agency ( disa ) crisis management system. additionally, under the network and space operations and maintenance ( nsom ) program contract awarded to us in january 2008 for a six-month base period with six one-year options, potentially worth $410 million in aggregate, we provide operations and maintenance support at locations around the world for the communications functions for the u.s. air force 50th space wing satellite control network ( afscn ), a global, continuously operational network of ground stations, operational control nodes and communications links that support launch and command and control of various space programs managed by the dod and other national security space organizations. we also have key positions on a number of indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity ( idiq ) contracts. we are a prime contractor under the u.s. air force network centric solutions ( netcents ) contract, which provides it installation, integration and operations and maintenance services for networks and systems and offers it products for networks. our netcents task orders include the maxwell air force base and the overseas navy enterprise 8 table of contents network ( one-net ). we are also a prime contractor under the u.s. army ites-2s contract, which provides it installation, integration, infrastructure and operations and maintenance services for networks and systems. our ites-2s task orders include the fort bliss department of information management ( doim ), the army g-1 support and the army.mil website and content support. in the second quarter of fiscal 2010, we were awarded an ites-2s task order for the u.s. southern command ( ussouthcom ) to migrate and consolidate the communications systems for nine ussouthcom buildings into a new headquarters complex. we are one of 59 awardees under the alliant government-wide acquisition contract ( gwac ) for the general services administration ( gsa ), which is an it procurement contract broadly accessible to all u.s. government agencies. in our commercial managed services business, we are providing end-to-end solutions and services across our vertical commercial markets, including cyberspace, healthcare and new media broadcast markets. for example, we are providing health first, inc., a florida-based healthcare provider, with managed services for back office infrastructure and networks. we also are collaborating with the broadcast communications segment to design and manage systems that manage, monitor and play out video content for a branded tv channel for the mcdonald fast food chain and systems that combine ip television ( iptv ) and digital signage and it infrastructure to create an advanced media workflow for an in-arena network for the orlando magic new basketball arena, as described in more detail below under item 1. business description of business by segment broadcast communications of this report. revenue, operating income and backlog: revenue for the government communications systems segment decreased 1 percent to $2,688 million in fiscal 2010 compared with $2,710 million in fiscal 2009, and was $2,478 million in fiscal 2008. segment operating income increased 11 percent to $337.0 million in fiscal 2010 compared with $302.8 million in fiscal 2009, and was $226.0 million in fiscal 2008. this segment contributed 51 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2010 compared with 54 percent in fiscal 2009 and 54 percent in fiscal 2008. in fiscal 2010, approximately 74 percent of revenue for this segment was under direct contracts with customers and approximately 26 percent of revenue was under contracts with prime contractors, compared with approximately 72 percent of revenue under direct contracts with customers and approximately 28 percent of revenue under contracts with prime contractors in fiscal 2009 and approximately 74 percent of revenue under direct contracts with customers and approximately 26 percent of revenue under contracts with prime contractors in fiscal 2008. some of this segment more significant programs in fiscal 2010 included fti, patriot, netcents, nmci, fdca, goes-r, nsom, f-35 and various classified programs. this segment largest program by revenue in a particular fiscal year represented approximately 9 percent of this segment revenue in fiscal 2010, compared with approximately 13 percent in fiscal 2009 and approximately 9 percent in fiscal 2008. this segment 10 largest programs by revenue in a particular fiscal year represented approximately 41 percent of this segment revenue in fiscal 2010, approximately 46 percent in fiscal 2009 and approximately 45 percent in fiscal 2008. in fiscal 2010, this segment had a diverse portfolio of over 300 programs. historically, that diversity has provided a stable backlog and reduced potential risks that come from reductions in funding or changes in customer priorities, and we expect that program diversity will continue to provide similar benefits in the future, although we can give no assurance. in fiscal 2010, fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, u.s. government customers, including the dod and intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military sales through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, accounted for approximately 96 percent of this segment total revenue. for a general description of our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, including a discussion of revenue generated from cost-reimbursement versus fixed-price contracts, see item 1. business principal customers; government contracts of this report. the funded backlog of unfilled orders for this segment was $1,238 million at july 2, 2010 compared with $1,146 million at july 3, 2009 and $836 million at june 27, 2008. unfunded backlog for this segment was $3,276 million at july 2, 2010 compared with $4,002 million at july 3, 2009 and $3,760 million at june 27, 2008. we expect to fill approximately 77 percent of this funded backlog during fiscal 2011, but we can give no assurance of such fulfillment. additional information regarding funded and unfunded backlog is provided under item 1. business funded and unfunded backlog of this report. for a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, see item 1. business principal customers; government contracts, item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this report. broadcast communications broadcast communications offers hardware and software products, systems and services that provide interoperable workflow solutions for broadcast, cable, satellite and out-of-home networks worldwide. those solutions are designed to receive content in any format and then manage, move and reformat that content for any delivery network to any viewing device. broadcast communications offers customers a comprehensive, single-source approach to delivering interoperable workflow capabilities and solutions spanning the entire broadcast value chain, 9 table of contents including content creation, management, distribution and delivery. the harris one tm solution for interoperable workflows that depend on it-centric systems, integrated infrastructure and enterprise software brings together highly integrated and cost-effective products that enable advanced media workflows for emerging content delivery business models. broadcast communications is supporting customers as they upgrade media operations to digital and high definition ( hd ) services from analog and standard definition ( sd ) services and as they expand services for hd television ( hdtv ), iptv, video-on-demand and interactive tv. this segment serves the global digital and analog media markets, providing workflow, infrastructure and networking products and solutions; media solutions; and television and radio transmission equipment and systems. workflow, infrastructure and networking solutions: our workflow, infrastructure and networking solutions offerings include sd and hd products and systems that enable media companies to streamline workflow from production through transmission. our workflow solutions offerings enable customers to transition into an it workflow by using servers to manage content flow, storage and other key facets of an increasingly file-based broadcast environment. we provide a comprehensive, next-generation portfolio of servers, signal processors, routers, master control and branding systems, network monitoring and control software, and test and measurement instruments that support content throughout the workflow application chain. we also provide advanced multi-image display processors and state-of-the-art broadcast graphics that change the way broadcasters view and manage content and provide broadcasters with options for presenting their brands. we also provide highly differentiated network access and multiplex platforms through our netvx tm solution, which offers customized integrated management and distribution applications for any content across any connection to support television, government video and public safety applications. our workflow, infrastructure and networking products also include our nexio amp tm hd/sd video server advanced media platform, part of our nexio tm family of scalable, interoperable video servers; x85 tm up/down/cross converter and frame synchronizer multiple application video and audio processing platform; opto+ tm fiber optic signal processing products offering 3 gb/s electrical-to-optical and optical-to-electrical conversion capabilities; platinum tm large router for mixed video and audio signal routing; iconmaster tm digital master control system; videotek line of precision test and measurement instruments; compact, scalable predator ii tm and larger-format multi-image display processors, or multiviewers; inscriber line of graphics and titling products; invenio tm digital asset management solution; and infocaster line of digital signage systems. we have also introduced a comprehensive end-to-end workflow for three-dimensional ( 3d ) applications, as well as three gigabit per second ( 3 gb/s ) solutions for the 1080p hd format. media: our media solutions offerings enable customers to manage their digital media workflow through a portfolio of software solutions for advertising, media management (traffic, billing and program scheduling), digital signage, broadband, digital asset management and play-out automation. our media solutions products include the harris media software suite and our osi traffic tm software. the harris media software suite is a unified system of interoperable broadcast and media applications based on open standards, with a network-, content- and service-agnostic approach, which supports customers core services and business operations, makes data exchange and workflow more efficient and facilitates adding services that can lead to new revenue streams. our products also include our velocity tm family of editing controllers that employ open standards to accelerate time-to-air and reduce the costs associated with content acquisition, production, distribution and media management; and punctuate tm out-of-home advertising and digital signage traffic, scheduling and ad sales advanced software solution. transmission systems: we develop, manufacture and supply digital and analog television and radio transmission systems for delivery of rich media over wireless broadcast terrestrial networks on a worldwide basis, including mobile tv applications. we can provide single products or end-to-end systems, including nationwide networks with hundreds of transmitters. our television and radio transmission systems solutions are scalable to meet the needs of broadcasters of all sizes. we are a leader in television transition from analog to digital technology and in technology for the u.s. digital standard known as atsc and the european digital standard dvb-t. in fiscal 2007, we introduced with lg electronics inc. the jointly developed mobile handheld in-band mobile digital tv system ( m/h ), a new technology capable of providing digital tv ( dtv ) signals and extending over-the-air broadcast tv signals beyond customary tv viewing at home to mobile, pedestrian and other handheld devices (such as mobile phones or laptop computers). our products also include our maxiva tm line of uhf multimedia transmitters, comprised of our maxiva ulx series of liquid-cooled transmitters for high-power uhf multimedia broadcasters and our maxiva uax series of air-cooled, solid-state transmitters for low-power uhf transmission. we are also a leader in the transition from analog to digital radio. our product offerings address the u.s. digital standard called iboc (in-band/on-channel), which is referred to in the market as hd radio , as well as international digital standards including dab and drm. our radio transmission products include our intraplex line of audio transport products, including studio-to-transmitter links, and our flexstar tm family, which provides a bandwidth-efficient bitstream so broadcasters can offer supplemental audio and data capability 10 table of contents along with the main program stream, offering listeners 5.1 surround sound, on-demand traffic, weather and sports reports, store-and-play capabilities and real-time navigation. this segment also is focused on three principal growth areas. first, in many international markets, the transition from analog to digital broadcasting is just beginning, which we believe will result in growing demand for both digital transmission systems and related infrastructure. second, in the u.s. government market for full-motion video systems, we believe we have unique technology capabilities. our full-motion video asset management engine ( fame tm ) solution provides our u.s. government customers with greater visibility into increasing amounts of digital isr information, including real-time and archived video, such as that collected from manned and unmanned aircraft and ground-based sensors. fame is a cots-based solution developed based on our digital asset management technologies, input from intelligence analysts and our government communications systems segment image processing, system integration and security capabilities. third, in digital out-of-home advertising, our solutions enable advertisers to reach consumers on the move, and we believe new systems will be increasingly deployed to deliver rich media content in live sports and entertainment venues and in retail establishments. revenue, operating income and backlog: revenue for the broadcast communications segment decreased 17 percent to $486 million in fiscal 2010 compared with $584 million in fiscal 2009, and was $643 million in fiscal 2008. the segment had an operating loss of $30.8 million in fiscal 2010 compared with an operating loss of $238.0 million in fiscal 2009, which included a $255.5 million non-cash charge for impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets, and operating income of $33.8 million in fiscal 2008. the broadcast communications segment contributed 9 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2010 compared with 11 percent in fiscal 2009 and 14 percent in fiscal 2008. the percentage of this segment revenue that was derived outside of the united states was approximately 56 percent in fiscal 2010 compared with 47 percent in fiscal 2009 and 47 percent in fiscal 2008. no single customer accounted for more than 3 percent of fiscal 2010 revenue for the broadcast communications segment. in general, this segment domestic products are sold and serviced directly to customers through its sales organization and through established distribution channels. internationally, this segment markets and sells its products and services through regional sales offices and established distribution channels. see item 1. business international business of this report. the funded backlog of unfilled orders for this segment was $260 million at july 2, 2010 compared with $247 million at july 3, 2009 and $305 million at june 27, 2008. we expect to fill approximately 45 percent of this backlog during fiscal 2011, but we can give no assurance of such fulfillment. for a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, see item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this report. international business revenue from products exported from the united states (including foreign military sales) or manufactured abroad was $724.6 million (14 percent of our total revenue) in fiscal 2010 compared with $1,016.6 million (20 percent of our total revenue) in fiscal 2009 and $759.7 million (17 percent of our total revenue) in fiscal 2008. essentially all of the international sales are derived from the rf communications and broadcast communications segments. direct export sales are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars, whereas sales from foreign subsidiaries are generally denominated in the local currency of the subsidiary. financial information regarding our domestic and international operations is contained in note 25: business segments in the notes and is incorporated herein by reference. our principal international manufacturing facilities are located in canada and the united kingdom. the majority of our international marketing activities are conducted through subsidiaries which operate in canada, europe, central and south america, and asia. we have also established international marketing organizations and several regional sales offices. reference is made to exhibit 21 subsidiaries of the registrant of this report for further information regarding our international subsidiaries. we utilize indirect sales channels, including dealers, distributors and sales representatives, in the marketing and sale of some lines of products and equipment, both domestically and internationally. these independent representatives may buy for resale or, in some cases, solicit orders from commercial or governmental customers for direct sales by us. prices to the ultimate customer in many instances may be recommended or established by the independent representative and may be above or below our list prices. our dealers and distributors generally receive a discount from our list prices and may mark up those prices in setting the final sales prices paid by the customer. revenue from indirect sales channels in fiscal 2010 represented 6 percent of our total revenue and approximately 35 percent of our international revenue, compared with revenue from indirect sales channels in fiscal 2009 representing 11 percent of our total revenue and approximately 55 percent of our international revenue, and revenue 11 table of contents from indirect sales channels in fiscal 2008 representing 7 percent of our total revenue and approximately 44 percent of our international revenue. fiscal 2010 international revenue came from a large number of countries, and no such single country accounted for more than 3 percent of our total revenue. some of our exports are paid for by letters of credit, with the balance carried either on an open account or installment note basis. advance payments, progress payments or other similar payments received prior to or upon shipment often cover most of the related costs incurred. significant foreign government contracts generally require us to provide performance guarantees. in order to stay competitive in international markets, we also sometimes enter into recourse and vendor financing arrangements to facilitate sales to certain customers. the particular economic, social and political conditions for business conducted outside the u.s. differ from those encountered by domestic businesses. our management believes that the overall business risk for the international business as a whole is somewhat greater than that faced by our domestic operations as a whole. a description of the types of risks to which we are subject in international business is contained in item 1a. risk factors of this report. nevertheless, in the opinion of our management, these risks are partially mitigated by the diversification of the international business and the protection provided by letters of credit and advance payments. competition we operate in highly competitive markets that are sensitive to technological advances. although successful product and systems development is not necessarily dependent on substantial financial resources, many of our competitors in each of our businesses are larger than we are and can maintain higher levels of expenditures for research and development. in each of our businesses we concentrate on the market opportunities that our management believes are compatible with our resources, overall technological capabilities and objectives. principal competitive factors in these businesses are product quality and reliability; technological capabilities; service; past performance; ability to develop and implement complex, integrated solutions; ability to meet delivery schedules; the effectiveness of third-party sales channels in international markets; and cost-effectiveness. within the it services market, there is intense competition among many companies. the ability to compete in the it services market depends on a number of factors, including the capability to deploy skilled professionals at competitive prices across the diverse spectrum of the it services market. in the rf communications segment, principal competitors include european aeronautic defence and space company n.v. ( eads ), general dynamics, itt industries, motorola, raytheon, rohde schwarz, selex, tadiran and thales. in the government communications systems segment, principal competitors include boeing, caci, general dynamics, gtsi, l-3 communications, lockheed martin, mantech, northrop grumman, raytheon, rignet, rockwell collins, schlumberger global connectivity services, sra and saic. consolidation among u.s. defense and aerospace companies has resulted in a reduction in the number of principal prime contractors. as a result of this consolidation, we frequently partner or are involved in subcontracting and teaming relationships with companies that are, from time to time, competitors on other programs. in the broadcast communications segment, principal competitors include avid, broadcast electronics, chyron, evertz, evs, harmonic, miranda, nautel, nec, omnibus, orad, open text, pilat media, rohde schwarz, sony broadcast, technicolor, tektronix/danaher, thomson, vizrt and wide orbit, as well as other smaller companies and divisions of large companies. principal customers; government contracts sales to u.s. government customers, including the dod and intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military sales through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, were 76 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2010 compared with 79 percent in both fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008. no other customer accounted for more than 2 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2010. additional information regarding customers for each of our segments is provided under item 1. business description of business by segment of this report. our u.s. government sales are predominantly derived from contracts with agencies of, and prime contractors to, the u.s. government. most of the sales of the government communications systems segment are made directly or indirectly to the u.s. government under contracts or subcontracts containing standard government contract clauses providing for redetermination of profits, if applicable, and for termination for the convenience of the u.s. government or for default based upon performance. 12 table of contents these u.s. government contracts and subcontracts include both cost-reimbursement and fixed-price contracts. our cost-reimbursement contracts provide for the reimbursement of allowable costs plus the payment of a fee. our cost-reimbursement contracts fall into three basic types: (i) cost-plus fixed-fee contracts, which provide for the payment of a fixed fee irrespective of the final cost of performance; (ii) cost-plus incentive-fee contracts, which provide for increases or decreases in the fee, within specified limits, based upon actual results compared with contractual targets relating to factors such as cost, performance and delivery schedule; and (iii) cost-plus award-fee contracts, which provide for the payment of an award fee determined at the discretion of the customer based upon the performance of the contractor against pre-established performance criteria. under cost-reimbursement contracts, we are reimbursed periodically for allowable costs and are paid a portion of the fee based on contract progress. some overhead costs have been made partially or wholly unallowable for reimbursement by statute or regulation. examples are certain merger and acquisition costs, lobbying costs, charitable contributions and certain litigation defense costs. our fixed-price contracts are either firm fixed-price contracts or fixed-price incentive contracts. under firm fixed-price contracts, we agree to perform a specific scope of work for a fixed price and, as a result, benefit from cost savings and carry the burden of cost overruns. under fixed-price incentive contracts, we share with the u.s. government both savings accrued from contracts performed for less than target costs as well as costs incurred in excess of targets up to a negotiated ceiling price (which is higher than the target cost), but carry the entire burden of costs exceeding the negotiated ceiling price. accordingly, under such incentive contracts, profit may also be adjusted up or down depending upon whether specified performance objectives are met. under firm fixed-price and fixed-price incentive contracts, we usually receive either milestone payments equaling 100 percent of the contract price or monthly progress payments from the u.s. government in amounts equaling 80 percent of costs incurred under the contract. the remaining amounts, including profits or incentive fees, are billed upon delivery and final acceptance of end items and deliverables under the contract. fixed-price contracts generally have higher profit margins than cost-reimbursement contracts. production contracts are mainly fixed-price contracts, and development contracts are generally cost-reimbursement contracts. in fiscal 2010, fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, approximately 38 percent, 36 percent and 35 percent, respectively, of the total combined revenue of our rf communications and government communications systems segments was from fixed-price contracts. gwac and idiq contracts, which can include task orders for each contract type, require us to compete both for the initial contract and then for individual task or delivery orders under such contracts. as stated above, u.s. government contracts are terminable for the convenience of the u.s. government, as well as for default based on performance. companies supplying goods and services to the u.s. government are dependent on congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of funds and may be affected by changes in u.s. government policies resulting from various military, political and international developments. long-term government contracts and related orders are subject to cancellation if appropriations for subsequent performance periods become unavailable. under contracts terminable for the convenience of the u.s. government, a contractor is entitled to receive payments for its allowable costs and, in general, the proportionate share of fees or earnings for the work done. contracts that are terminable for default generally provide that the u.s. government pays only for the work it has accepted and may require the contractor to pay for the incremental cost of reprocurement and may hold the contractor liable for damages. in many cases, there is also uncertainty relating to the complexity of designs, necessity for design improvements and difficulty in forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work. under many u.s. government contracts, we are required to maintain facility and personnel security clearances complying with dod and other federal agency requirements. for further discussion of risks relating to u.s. government contracts, see item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this report. funded and unfunded backlog our total company-wide funded and unfunded backlog was approximately $6,526 million at july 2, 2010 compared with approximately $6,317 million at july 3, 2009 and $5,883 million at june 27, 2008. the funded portion of this backlog was approximately $3,250 million at july 2, 2010 compared with approximately $2,315 million at july 3, 2009 and $2,123 million at june 27, 2008. the determination of backlog involves substantial estimating, particularly with respect to customer requirements contracts and development and production contracts of a cost-reimbursement or incentive nature. in fiscal 2010, we changed how we define funded backlog to be more consistent with industry practices. this change of methodology, which we applied retrospectively, had no impact on our total backlog, but did result in a reclassification of certain amounts of backlog from unfunded backlog to funded backlog for prior periods presented in this report. we now define funded backlog as unfilled firm orders for products and services for which funding 13 table of contents has been authorized and, in the case of u.s. government agencies, appropriated. we define unfunded backlog as primarily unfilled firm contract value for which funding has not yet been authorized or, in the case of u.s. government agencies, appropriated, including the value of contract options in cases of material contracts that have options we believe are probable of being exercised. we do not include potential task or delivery orders under idiq contracts in our backlog. in fiscal 2011, we expect to fill approximately 75 percent of our total funded backlog as of july 2, 2010. however, we can give no assurance of such fulfillment or that our funded backlog will become revenue in any particular period, if at all. backlog is subject to delivery delays and program cancellations, which are beyond our control. additional information with regard to the backlog of each of our segments is provided under item 1. business description of business by segment of this report. research, development and engineering research, development and engineering expenditures totaled approximately $1,047 million in fiscal 2010, $1,003 million in fiscal 2009 and $980 million in fiscal 2008. company-sponsored research and product development costs, which included research and development for commercial products and independent research and development related to government products and services, as well as concept formulation studies and bid and proposal efforts, were approximately $326 million in fiscal 2010, $244 million in fiscal 2009 and $248 million in fiscal 2008. a portion of our independent research and development costs are allocated among contracts and programs in process under u.s. government contractual arrangements. company-sponsored research and product development costs not otherwise allocable are charged to expense when incurred. the portion of total research, development and engineering expenditures that was not company-sponsored was funded by the u.s. government and is included in our revenue. customer-sponsored research and development was $721 million in fiscal 2010, $759 million in fiscal 2009 and $732 million in fiscal 2008. company-sponsored research is directed to the development of new products and to building technological capability in selected communications and electronic systems markets. u.s. government-funded research helps strengthen and broaden our technical capabilities. all of our segments maintain their own engineering and new product development departments, with scientific assistance provided by advanced-technology departments. as of july 2, 2010, we employed approximately 7,000 engineers and scientists and are continuing efforts to make the technologies developed in any of our business segments available for all other business segments. patents and other intellectual property we consider our patents and other intellectual property, in the aggregate, to constitute an important asset. we own a large and valuable portfolio of patents, trade secrets, know-how, confidential information, trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property. we also license intellectual property to and from third parties. as of july 2, 2010, we held approximately 1,075 u.s. patents and 645 foreign patents, and had approximately 550 u.s. patent applications pending and 1,260 foreign patent applications pending. unpatented research, development and engineering skills also make an important contribution to our business. while our intellectual property rights in the aggregate are important to our business and the operations of our business segments, we do not consider our business or any business segment to be materially dependent upon any single patent, license or other intellectual property right, or any group of related patents, licenses or other intellectual property rights. we are engaged in a proactive patent licensing program and have entered into a number of licenses and cross-license agreements, some of which generate royalty income. although existing license agreements have generated income in past years and may do so in the future, there can be no assurances we will enter into additional income-producing license agreements. from time to time we engage in litigation to protect our patents and other intellectual property. any of our patents, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights and other proprietary rights could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or may not provide competitive advantages. for further discussion of risks relating to intellectual property, see item 1a. risk factors of this report. with regard to patents relating to our government communications systems segment, the u.s. government often has an irrevocable, non-exclusive, royalty-free license, pursuant to which the u.s. government may use or authorize others to use the inventions covered by such patents. pursuant to similar arrangements, the u.s. government may consent to our use of inventions covered by patents owned by other persons. numerous trademarks used on or in connection with our products are also considered to be a valuable asset. environmental and other regulations our facilities and operations are subject to numerous domestic and international laws and regulations designed to protect the environment, particularly with regard to wastes and emissions. the applicable environmental laws and regulations are common within the industries and markets in which we operate and serve. we believe that we have complied with these requirements and that such compliance has not had a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. based upon currently available information, we do not expect 14 table of contents expenditures over the next several years to protect the environment and to comply with current environmental laws and regulations, as well as to comply with current and pending climate control legislation, regulation, treaties and accords, to have a material impact on our competitive position or financial condition, but we can give no assurance that such expenditures will not exceed current expectations. if future treaties, laws and regulations contain more stringent requirements than presently anticipated, actual expenditures may be higher than our present estimates of those expenditures. we have installed waste treatment facilities and pollution control equipment to satisfy legal requirements and to achieve our waste minimization and prevention goals. we did not spend material amounts on environmental capital projects in fiscal 2010, fiscal 2009 or fiscal 2008. a portion of our environmental expenditures relates to discontinued operations for which we have retained certain environmental liabilities. we currently expect that amounts to be spent for environmental-related capital projects will not be material in fiscal 2011. these amounts may increase in future years. additional information regarding environmental and regulatory matters is set forth in item 3. legal proceedings of this report and in note 1: significant accounting policies in the notes. electronic products are subject to governmental environmental regulation in a number of jurisdictions. equipment produced by our broadcast communications segment, in particular, is subject to domestic and international requirements requiring end-of-life management and/or restricting materials in products delivered to customers, including the european union directive 2002/96/ec on waste electrical and electronic equipment ( weee ) and directive 2002/95/ec on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment ( rohs ), as amended. other jurisdictions have adopted similar legislation. such requirements typically are not applicable to most equipment produced by our government communications systems and rf communications segments. we believe that we have complied with such rules and regulations, where applicable, with respect to our existing products sold into such jurisdictions. we intend to comply with such rules and regulations with respect to our future products. broadcast and wireless communications (whether tv, radio, satellite or telecommunications) are also subject to governmental regulation. equipment produced by our broadcast communications and rf communications segments, in particular, is subject to domestic and international requirements to avoid interference among users of radio and television frequencies and to permit interconnection of telecommunications equipment. additionally, our managed satellite communications services business holds licenses for very small aperture terminals ( vsats ) and satellite earth stations, which authorize operation of networks and teleports. we are also required to comply with technical operating and licensing requirements that pertain to our wireless licenses and operations. we believe that we have complied with such rules and regulations and licenses with respect to our existing products and services, and we intend to comply with such rules and regulations and licenses with respect to our future products and services. governmental reallocation of the frequency spectrum also could impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. raw materials and supplies because of the diversity of our products and services, as well as the wide geographic dispersion of our facilities, we use numerous sources for the wide array of raw materials (such as electronic components, printed circuit boards, metals and plastics) needed for our operations and for our products. we are dependent upon suppliers and subcontractors for a large number of components and subsystems and the ability of our suppliers and subcontractors to adhere to customer or regulatory materials restrictions and to meet performance and quality specifications and delivery schedules. in some instances, we are dependent upon one or a few sources, either because of the specialized nature of a particular item or because of local content preference requirements pursuant to which we operate on a given project. while we have been affected by financial and performance issues of some of our suppliers and subcontractors, we have not been materially adversely affected by the inability to obtain raw materials or products. on occasion, we have experienced component shortages from vendors as a result of the rohs environmental regulations in the european union or similar regulations in other jurisdictions. these regulations may cause a spike in demand for certain electronic components (such as lead-free components), resulting in industry-wide supply chain shortages. to date, these component shortages have not had a material adverse effect on our business. for further discussion of risks relating to subcontractors and suppliers, see item 1a. risk factors of this report. seasonality we do not consider any material portion of our business to be seasonal. various factors can affect the distribution of our revenue between accounting periods, including the timing of contract awards and the timing and availability of u.s. government funding, as well as the timing of product deliveries and customer acceptance. 15 table of contents employees we employed approximately 15,800 employees at the end of fiscal 2010 compared with approximately 15,400 employees at the end of fiscal 2009. approximately 91 percent of our employees as of the end of fiscal 2010 were located in the united states. a significant number of employees in our government communications systems segment possess a u.s. government security clearance. we also utilize a number of independent contractors. none of our employees in the united states is represented by a labor union. in certain international subsidiaries, our employees are represented by workers councils or statutory labor unions. in general, we believe that our relations with our employees are good. website access to harris reports; available information general. we maintain an internet website at http://www.harris.com. our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to such reports, filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act, are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the securities and exchange commission (the sec ). we also will provide the reports in electronic or paper form free of charge upon request. we also make available free of charge on our website our annual report to shareholders and proxy statement. our website and the information posted thereon are not incorporated into this report or any current or other periodic report that we file with or furnish to the sec. all reports we file with or furnish to the sec also are available free of charge via the sec electronic data gathering and retrieval ( edgar ) system available through the sec website at http://www.sec.gov . additional information relating to our businesses, including our operating segments, is set forth in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report. corporate governance principles and committee charters. we previously adopted corporate governance principles, which are available on the corporate governance section of our website at www.harris.com/harris/cg/ . in addition, the charters of each of the committees of our board, namely, the audit committee, business conduct and corporate responsibility committee, corporate governance committee, finance committee and management development and compensation committee, are also available on the corporate governance section of our website. a copy of the charters is also available free of charge upon written request to our secretary at harris corporation, 1025 west nasa boulevard, melbourne, florida 32919. certifications. we have filed with the sec the certifications required by section 302 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 as exhibits to this report. in addition, an annual ceo certification was submitted by our chief executive officer to the new york stock exchange ( nyse ) in november 2009 in accordance with the nyse listing standards, which included a certification that he was not aware of any violation by harris of the nyse corporate governance listing standards. item 1a. risk factors. we have described many of the trends and other factors that we believe could impact our business and future results in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report. in addition, our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition are subject to, and could be materially adversely affected by, various risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, those set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or our anticipated future results. we depend on u.s. government customers for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of this relationship or a shift in u.s. government funding priorities could have adverse consequences on our future business. we are highly dependent on sales to u.s. government customers. the percentage of our net revenue that was derived from sales to u.s. government customers, including the dod and intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military sales through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, was approximately 76 percent in fiscal 2010 and 79 percent in both fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008. therefore, any significant disruption or deterioration of our relationship with the u.s. government would significantly reduce our revenue. our u.s. government programs must compete with programs managed by other government contractors for limited resources and for uncertain levels of funding. our competitors continuously engage in efforts to expand their business relationships with the u.s. government and will continue these efforts in the future, and the u.s. government may choose to use other contractors. we expect that a majority of the business that we seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through competitive bidding. the u.s. government has increasingly relied on certain types of contracts that are subject to a competitive bidding process, including idiq, gwac, gsa schedule 16 table of contents and other multi-award contracts, which has resulted in greater competition and increased pricing pressure. we operate in highly competitive markets and our competitors may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do in some areas, and we may not be able to continue to win competitively awarded contracts or to obtain task orders under multi-award contracts. further, the competitive bidding process involves significant cost and managerial time to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us, and the risk that we may fail to accurately estimate the resources and costs required to fulfill any contract awarded to us. following any contract award, we may experience significant expense or delay, contract modification or contract rescission as a result of our competitors protesting or challenging contracts awarded to us in competitive bidding. we also compete with the u.s. government own capabilities and federal non-profit contract research centers. budget decisions made by the u.s. government are outside of our control and have long-term consequences for our business. a shift in u.s. government spending priorities or an increase in non-procurement spending at the expense of our programs (for example, through in-sourcing ), or a reduction in total u.s. government spending, could have material adverse consequences on our future business. we depend significantly on u.s. government contracts, which often are only partially funded, subject to immediate termination, and heavily regulated and audited. the termination or failure to fund one or more of these contracts could have an adverse impact on our business. over its lifetime, a u.s. government program may be implemented by the award of many different individual contracts and subcontracts. the funding of u.s. government programs is subject to congressional appropriations. although multi-year contracts may be authorized and appropriated in connection with major procurements, congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis. procurement funds are typically made available for obligation over the course of three years. consequently, programs often receive only partial funding initially, and additional funds are obligated only as congress authorizes further appropriations. the termination of funding for a u.s. government program would result in a loss of anticipated future revenue attributable to that program, which could have an adverse impact on our operations. in addition, the termination of a program or the failure to commit additional funds to a program that already has been started could result in lost revenue and increase our overall costs of doing business. generally, u.s. government contracts are subject to oversight audits by u.s. government representatives. such audits could result in adjustments to our contract costs. any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, and such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. we have recorded contract revenues based upon costs we expect to realize upon final audit. however, we do not know the outcome of any future audits and adjustments and we may be required to materially reduce our revenues or profits upon completion and final negotiation of audits. negative audit findings could also result in termination of a contract, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the u.s. government. in addition, u.s. government contracts generally contain provisions permitting termination, in whole or in part, without prior notice at the u.s. government convenience upon the payment only for work done and commitments made at the time of termination. we can give no assurance that one or more of our u.s. government contracts will not be terminated under these circumstances. also, we can give no assurance that we would be able to procure new contracts to offset the revenue or backlog lost as a result of any termination of our u.s. government contracts. because a significant portion of our revenue is dependent on our performance and payment under our u.s. government contracts, the loss of one or more large contracts could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. our government business also is subject to specific procurement regulations and a variety of socio-economic and other requirements. these requirements, although customary in u.s. government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. these costs might increase in the future, thereby reducing our margins, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could lead to suspension or debarment from u.s. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. among the causes for debarment are violations of various laws, including those related to procurement integrity, export control, u.s. government security regulations, employment practices, protection of the environment, accuracy of records, proper recording of costs and foreign corruption. the termination of a u.s. government contract or relationship as a result of any of these acts would have an adverse impact on our operations and could have an adverse effect on our standing and eligibility for future u.s. government contracts. 17 table of contents we enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses in the event of cost overruns or a significant increase in inflation. we have a number of firm fixed-price contracts. in fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009, approximately 38 percent and 36 percent, respectively, of the total combined revenue of our rf communications and government communications systems segments was from fixed-price contracts. these contracts allow us to benefit from cost savings, but they carry the risk of potential cost overruns because we assume all of the cost burden. if our initial estimates are incorrect, we can lose money on these contracts. u.s. government contracts can expose us to potentially large losses because the u.s. government can hold us responsible for completing a project or, in certain circumstances, paying the entire cost of its replacement by another provider regardless of the size or foreseeability of any cost overruns that occur over the life of the contract. because many of these contracts involve new technologies and applications and can last for years, unforeseen events, such as technological difficulties, fluctuations in the price of raw materials, problems with our suppliers and cost overruns, can result in the contractual price becoming less favorable or even unprofitable to us over time. the united states also may experience a significant increase in inflation. a significant increase in inflation rates could have a significant adverse impact on the profitability of these contracts. furthermore, if we do not meet contract deadlines or specifications, we may need to renegotiate contracts on less favorable terms, be forced to pay penalties or liquidated damages or suffer major losses if the customer exercises its right to terminate. in addition, some of our contracts have provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights, and if we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts we may not realize their full benefits. our results of operations are dependent on our ability to maximize our earnings from our contracts. cost overruns could have an adverse impact on our financial results. the potential impact of such risk on our financial results would increase if the mix of our contracts and programs shifted toward a greater percentage of firm fixed-price contracts. we derive a significant portion of our revenue from international operations and are subject to the risks of doing business internationally, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates. we are dependent on sales to customers outside the united states. in fiscal 2010, fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, revenue from products exported from the u.s. or manufactured abroad was 14 percent, 20 percent and 17 percent, respectively, of our total revenue. approximately 41 percent of our international business in fiscal 2010 was transacted in local currency. losses resulting from currency rate fluctuations can adversely affect our results. we expect that international revenue will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue. also, a significant portion of our international revenue is in less-developed countries. we are subject to risks of doing business internationally, including: currency exchange controls, fluctuations of currency and currency revaluations; the laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments relating to investments and operations, as well as u.s. laws affecting the activities of u.s. companies abroad, including the foreign corrupt practices act; changes in regulatory requirements, including imposition of tariffs or embargoes, export controls and other trade restrictions; uncertainties and restrictions concerning the availability of funding, credit or guarantees; the complexity and necessity of using international dealers, distributors, sales representatives and consultants; the difficulty of managing an organization doing business in many countries; import and export licensing requirements and regulations, as well as unforeseen changes in export regulations; uncertainties as to local laws and enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights and occasional requirements for onerous contract clauses; and rapid changes in government, economic and political policies, political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of international boycotts or u.s. anti-boycott legislation. our reputation and ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of our employees, agents or business partners. we have implemented extensive compliance controls, policies and procedures designed to prevent reckless or criminal acts from being committed by our employees, agents or business partners that would violate the laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including laws governing payments to government officials (such as the foreign corrupt practices act), and to detect any such reckless or criminal acts committed. we cannot ensure, however, that our controls, policies and procedures will prevent or detect all such reckless or criminal acts. if not prevented, such reckless or criminal acts could subject us to civil or criminal investigations and monetary and non-monetary 18 table of contents penalties and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct business, our results of operations and our reputation. we may not be successful in obtaining the necessary export licenses to conduct certain operations abroad, and congress may prevent proposed sales to certain foreign governments. we must first obtain export and other licenses and authorizations from various u.s. government agencies before we are permitted to sell certain products and technologies outside of the united states. for example, the u.s. department of state must notify congress at least 15-60 days, depending on the size and location of the sale, prior to authorizing certain sales of defense equipment and services to foreign governments. during that time, congress may take action to block the proposed sale. we can give no assurance that we will continue to be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses or authorizations or that congress will not prevent or delay certain sales. any significant impairment of our ability to sell products or technologies outside of the united states could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. our future success will depend on our ability to develop new products and technologies that achieve market acceptance in our current and future markets. both our commercial and government businesses are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry standards. accordingly, our performance depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: identify emerging technological trends in our current and target markets; develop and maintain competitive products; enhance our offerings by adding innovative hardware, software or other features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors; and develop, manufacture and bring cost-effective offerings to market quickly. we believe that, in order to remain competitive in the future, we will need to continue to develop new products and technologies, requiring the investment of significant financial resources. the need to make these expenditures could divert our attention and resources from other projects, and we cannot be sure that these expenditures ultimately will lead to the timely development of new products or technologies. due to the design complexity of some of our products and technologies, we may experience delays in completing development and introducing new products or technologies in the future. any delays could result in increased costs of development or redirect resources from other projects. in addition, we cannot provide assurances that the markets for our products or technologies will develop as we currently anticipate. the failure of our products or technologies to gain market acceptance could significantly reduce our revenue and harm our business. furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing products or technologies that gain market acceptance in advance of our products or technologies, or that our competitors will not develop new products or technologies that cause our existing products or technologies to become non-competitive or obsolete, which could adversely affect our results of operations. the future direction of the domestic and global economies, including its impact on customer demand, also will have a significant impact on our overall performance. we participate in markets that are often subject to uncertain economic conditions, which makes it difficult to estimate growth in our markets and, as a result, future income and expenditures. we participate in u.s. and international markets that are subject to uncertain economic conditions. as a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth in the markets in which we participate. because all components of our budgeting and forecasting are dependent upon estimates of growth in the markets we serve, the uncertainty renders estimates of future income and expenditures even more difficult. as a result, we may make significant investments and expenditures but never realize the anticipated benefits. we cannot predict the consequences of future geo-political events, but they may adversely affect the markets in which we operate, our ability to insure against risks, our operations or our profitability. ongoing instability and current conflicts in the middle east and asia and the potential for further conflicts and future terrorist activities and other recent geo-political events throughout the world have created economic and political uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and profitability. these matters cause uncertainty in the world financial and insurance markets and may increase significantly the political, economic and social instability in the geographic areas in which we operate. these matters also have caused the premiums charged for our insurance coverages to increase and may cause further increases or some coverages to be unavailable altogether. 19 table of contents we have made, and may continue to make, strategic acquisitions that involve significant risks and uncertainties. we have made, and we may continue to make, strategic acquisitions that involve significant risks and uncertainties. these risks and uncertainties include: difficulty in identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions, including the risk that our due diligence does not identify or fully assess valuation issues, potential liabilities or other acquisition risks; difficulty in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and cost-effective manner and the risk that we encounter significant unanticipated costs or other problems associated with integration; challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits expected from acquisitions; risk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the strategic acquisitions do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; risk that we assume significant liabilities that exceed the limitations of any applicable indemnification provisions or the financial resources of any indemnifying parties; potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses; and risk of diverting the attention of senior management from our existing operations. disputes with our subcontractors and the inability of our subcontractors to perform, or our key suppliers to timely deliver our components, parts or services, could cause our products or services to be produced or delivered in an untimely or unsatisfactory manner. on many of our contracts, we engage subcontractors. we may have disputes with our subcontractors, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor, customer concerns about the subcontract, our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders under a subcontract, our hiring of the personnel of a subcontractor or vice versa or the subcontractor failure to comply with applicable law. in addition, there are certain parts, components and services for many of our products and services which we source from other manufacturers or vendors. some of our suppliers, from time to time, experience financial and operational difficulties, which may impact their ability to supply the materials, components, subsystems and services that we require. any inability to develop alternative sources of supply on a cost-effective and timely basis could materially impair our ability to manufacture and deliver products and services to our customers. we can give no assurances that we will be free from disputes with our subcontractors, material supply problems or component, subsystems or services problems in the future. also, our subcontractors and other suppliers may not be able to acquire or maintain the quality of the materials, components, subsystems and services they supply, which might result in greater product returns, service problems and warranty claims and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. third parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their intellectual property rights, and third parties may infringe upon our intellectual property rights. many of the markets we serve are characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights, which often has resulted in protracted and expensive litigation. third parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing or to have infringed directly or indirectly upon those intellectual property rights. claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. moreover, we may not be able to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us, or at all. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain of our products. our success depends in large part on our proprietary technology. we rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, know-how, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. if we fail to successfully protect and enforce these rights, our competitive position could suffer. our pending patent and trademark registration applications may not be allowed, or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents or trademark registrations. in addition, our patents may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and police our intellectual property rights. we may not be able to detect infringement and our competitive position may be harmed before we do so. in addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. the outcome of litigation or arbitration in which we are involved is unpredictable and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we are defendants in a number of litigation matters and, from time to time, are involved in a number of arbitrations. these actions may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. no assurances can be given that the results of these or new matters will be favorable to us. an 20 table of contents adverse resolution of lawsuits or arbitrations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we face certain significant risk exposures and potential liabilities that may not be covered adequately by insurance or indemnity. we are exposed to liabilities that are unique to the products and services we provide. a significant portion of our business relates to designing, developing and manufacturing advanced defense and technology systems and products. new technologies associated with these systems and products may be untested or unproven. components of certain of the defense systems and products we develop are inherently dangerous. failures of satellites, missile systems, air traffic control systems, homeland security applications and aircraft have the potential to cause loss of life and extensive property damage. in most circumstances, we may receive indemnification from the u.s. government. while we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, and we may be forced to bear substantial costs from an accident or incident. it also is not possible to obtain insurance to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. substantial claims resulting from an incident in excess of u.s. government indemnity and our insurance coverage could harm our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. moreover, any accident or incident for which we are liable, even if fully insured, could negatively affect our standing among our customers and the public, thereby making it more difficult for us to compete effectively, and could significantly impact the cost and availability of adequate insurance in the future. changes in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. our future effective tax rate may be adversely affected by a number of factors including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not fully deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation expense; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; changes in domestic or international tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws; and the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact our results of operations for future periods. the effects of the recent recession in the united states and general downturn in the global economy could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results or financial condition. the united states economy has recently experienced a recession and there has been a general downturn in the global economy. although governments worldwide, including the u.s. government, have initiated sweeping economic plans, we are unable to predict the impact, severity and duration of these economic events. the continuing effects of the recent recession or a worsening of economic conditions could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results or financial condition in a number of ways. possible effects of these economic events include the following: the u.s. government could reprioritize its spending away from the government programs in which we participate; we may experience declines in revenues, profitability and cash flows as a result of reduced orders, payment delays or other factors caused by the economic problems of our customers and prospective customers (including u.s. state and local governments); we may experience supply chain delays, disruptions or other problems associated with financial constraints faced by our suppliers and subcontractors; and we may incur increased costs or experience difficulty with future borrowings under our commercial paper program or credit facilities or in the debt markets, or otherwise with financing our operating, investing (including any future acquisitions) or financing activities. we have significant operations in florida and other locations that could be materially and adversely impacted in the event of a natural disaster or other significant disruption. our corporate headquarters and significant operations of our government communications systems segment are located in florida, where major hurricanes have occurred. our worldwide operations could be subject to natural 21 table of contents disasters or other significant disruptions, including hurricanes, typhoons, tsunamis, floods, earthquakes, fires, water shortages, other extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics, acts of terrorism, power shortages and blackouts, telecommunications failures, cyber attacks and other natural and manmade disasters or disruptions. in the event of such a natural disaster or other disruption, we could experience disruptions or interruptions to our operations or the operations of our suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers or customers; destruction of facilities; and/or loss of life, all of which could materially increase our costs and expenses and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we could be negatively impacted by a security breach, through cyber attack, cyber intrusion or otherwise, or other significant disruption of our it networks and related systems or of those we operate for certain of our customers. we face the risk, as does any company, of a security breach, whether through cyber attack or cyber intrusion over the internet, malware, computer viruses, attachments to e-mails, persons inside our organization, or with persons with access to systems inside our organization, or other significant disruption of our it networks and related systems. we face an added risk of a security breach or other significant disruption of the it networks and related systems that we develop, install, operate and maintain for certain of our customers, which may involve managing and protecting information relating to national security and other sensitive government functions. the risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. as a communications and it company, and particularly as a government contractor, we face a heightened risk of a security breach or disruption from threats to gain unauthorized access to our and our customers proprietary or classified information on our it networks and related systems and to the it networks and related systems that we operate and maintain for certain of our customers. these types of information and it networks and related systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day-to-day operations, and in some cases are critical to the operations of certain of our customers. although we make significant efforts to maintain the security and integrity of these types of information and it networks and related systems, and we have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption, there can be no assurance that our security efforts and measures will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging. even the most well protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because attempted security breaches, particularly cyber attacks and intrusions, or disruptions will occur in the future, and because the techniques used in such attempts are constantly evolving and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed not be detected and, in fact, may not be detected. accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures, and thus it is virtually impossible for us to entirely mitigate this risk. a security breach or other significant disruption involving these types of information and it networks and related systems could: disrupt the proper functioning of these networks and systems and therefore our operations and/or those of certain of our customers; result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of proprietary, confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable information of ours or our customers, including trade secrets, which others could use to compete against us or for disruptive, destructive or otherwise harmful purposes and outcomes; compromise national security and other sensitive government functions; require significant management attention and resources to remedy the damages that result; subject us to claims for contract breach, damages, credits, penalties or termination; or damage our reputation among our customers (particularly agencies of the u.s. government and potential customers of our cyber integrated solutions business) and the public generally, any or all of which could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we rely on third parties to provide satellite bandwidth for our managed satellite communications services, and any bandwidth constraints could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. in our managed satellite communications services business, we compete for satellite bandwidth with other commercial entities, such as other satellite communications services providers and broadcasting companies, and with governmental entities, such as the military. in certain markets and at certain times, satellite bandwidth may be limited and/or pricing of satellite bandwidth could be subject to competitive pressure. in such cases, we may be 22 table of contents unable to secure sufficient bandwidth needed to provide our managed satellite communications services, either at favorable rates or at all. this inability could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in future business conditions could cause business investments and/or recorded goodwill to become impaired, resulting in substantial losses and write-downs that would reduce our results of operations. as part of our overall strategy, we will, from time to time, acquire a minority or majority interest in a business. these investments are made upon careful analysis and due diligence procedures designed to achieve a desired return or strategic objective. these procedures often involve certain assumptions and judgment in determining acquisition price. after acquisition, unforeseen issues could arise which adversely affect the anticipated returns or which are otherwise not recoverable as an adjustment to the purchase price. even after careful integration efforts, actual operating results may vary significantly from initial estimates. goodwill accounts for approximately 33 percent of our recorded total assets as of july 2, 2010. we evaluate the recoverability of recorded goodwill amounts annually, as well as when we change reporting segments and when events or circumstances indicate there may be an impairment. the annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. principally, a decrease in expected reporting segment cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill. for additional information on accounting policies we have in place for goodwill impairment, see our discussion under critical accounting policies and estimates in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report and note 1: significant accounting policies and note 22: impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets in the notes. we must attract and retain key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. our business has a continuing need to attract significant numbers of skilled personnel, including personnel holding security clearances, to support our growth and to replace individuals who have terminated employment due to retirement or for other reasons. to the extent that the demand for qualified personnel exceeds supply, as has been the case from time to time in recent years, we could experience higher labor, recruiting or training costs in order to attract and retain such employees, or could experience difficulties in performing under our contracts if our needs for such employees were unmet. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 56 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of doing business, we are exposed to the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rates and changes in interest rates. we employ established policies and procedures governing the use of financial instruments to manage our exposure to such risks. for a discussion of such policies and procedures and the related risks, see financial risk management in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report, which is incorporated by reference into this item 7a. 56risk factors 18 risk factors of this report. all forward-looking statements are qualified by, and should be read in conjunction with, those risk factors. forward-looking statements are made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended (the securities act ), and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the exchange act ), and we undertake no obligation, other than imposed by law, to update forward-looking statements to reflect further developments or information obtained after the date of filing of this report or, in the case of any document incorporated by reference, the date of that document, and disclaim any obligation to do so. part i item 1. business. harris harris corporation, together with its subsidiaries, is an international communications and information technology company serving government and commercial markets in more than 150 countries. we are dedicated to developing best-in-class assured communications products, systems and services for global markets, including rf communications, integrated network solutions and government communications systems. harris corporation was incorporated in delaware in 1926 as the successor to three companies founded in the 1890s. our principal executive offices are located at 1025 west nasa boulevard, melbourne, florida 32919, and our telephone number is (321) 727-9100. our common stock is listed on the new york stock exchange under the symbol hrs. on july 1, 2011, we employed approximately 16,900 people. unless the context otherwise requires, the terms we, our, us, company and harris as used in this report refer to harris corporation and its subsidiaries. general we structure our operations primarily around the products and services we sell and the markets we serve, and we report the financial results of our operations in the following three reportable operating segments: our rf communications segment, comprised of (i) u.s. department of defense and international tactical communications and (ii) public safety and professional communications; our integrated network solutions segment, comprised of (i) it services, (ii) managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions, (iii) healthcare solutions, (iv) cyber integrated solutions and (v) broadcast and new media solutions; and our government communications systems segment, comprised of (i) civil programs, (ii) defense programs and (iii) national intelligence programs. as previously reported and as discussed further in note 25: business segments in the notes to consolidated financial statements in this report (the notes ), our reportable operating segment structure reflects that, in the third quarter of fiscal 2011, we realigned our operations to provide increased market focus and address the fast-growing global market for integrated communications and information technology and services. as a result of the realignment of our operations, effective for the third quarter of fiscal 2011, we formed our integrated network solutions segment as a new segment. the new segment realigns it services, managed satellite and terrestrial 1 table of contents communications solutions, healthcare solutions and cyber integrated solutions (all of which were formerly under our government communications systems segment) with broadcast and new media solutions (formerly a separate reportable segment called broadcast communications). our rf communications segment did not change. the historical results, discussion and presentation of our operating segments as set forth in this report have been adjusted to reflect the impact of these changes to our reportable operating segment structure for all periods presented in this report. in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, in connection with the may 27, 2009 spin-off (the spin-off ) in the form of a taxable pro rata dividend to our shareholders of all the shares of harris stratex networks, inc. (now known as aviat networks, inc.) ( hstx ) common stock owned by us, we eliminated our former hstx operating segment. our historical financial results have been restated to account for hstx as discontinued operations for all periods presented in this report, and unless otherwise specified, disclosures in this report relate solely to our continuing operations. for additional information regarding discontinued operations, see note 3: discontinued operations in the notes. financial information with respect to all of our other activities, including corporate costs not allocated to the operating segments or discontinued operations, is reported as part of the unallocated corporate expense or non-operating loss line items in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. recent acquisitions acquisition of caprock. on july 30, 2010, we acquired privately held caprock holdings, inc. and its subsidiaries, including caprock communications, inc. (collectively, caprock ), a global provider of mission-critical, managed satellite communications services for the government, energy and maritime industries. caprock solutions include broadband internet access, voice over internet protocol ( voip ) telephony, wideband networking and real-time video, delivered to nearly 2,000 customer sites around the world. the acquisition of caprock increased the breadth of our assured communications capabilities, while enabling us to enter new vertical markets and increase our international presence. the total net purchase price for caprock was $517.5 million. we report caprock as part of managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions under our integrated network solutions segment. acquisition of schlumberger gcs. on april 4, 2011, we acquired from schlumberger b.v. and its affiliates ( schlumberger ) substantially all of the assets of the schlumberger group global connectivity services business ( schlumberger gcs ), a provider of satellite and terrestrial communications services for the worldwide energy industry. the total net purchase price for schlumberger gcs was $380.6 million, subject to post-closing adjustments. we report schlumberger gcs as part of managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions under our integrated network solutions segment. acquisition of carefx. also on april 4, 2011, we acquired privately held carefx corporation ( carefx ), a provider of interoperability workflow solutions for government and commercial healthcare providers. carefx solution suite is used by more than 800 hospitals, healthcare systems and health information exchanges across north america, europe and asia. this acquisition expanded our presence in government healthcare, provided entry into the commercial healthcare market, and is expected to leverage the healthcare interoperability workflow products offered by carefx and the broader scale of enterprise intelligence solutions and services that we provide. the total net purchase price for carefx was $152.6 million, subject to post-closing adjustments. we report carefx as part of healthcare solutions under our integrated network solutions segment. subsequent event share repurchase program on july 30, 2011, our board of directors approved a new $1 billion share repurchase program (the new repurchase program ) and increased the quarterly cash dividend rate on our common stock from $0.25 per share to $0.28 per share. the new repurchase program replaced our prior share repurchase program (the 2009 repurchase program ), which had a remaining, unused authorization of approximately $200 million. the new repurchase program does not have a stated expiration date. we currently expect to repurchase up to $500 million in shares under the new repurchase program by the end of calendar year 2011. the new repurchase program is expected to result in repurchases well in excess of the dilutive effect of shares issued under our share-based incentive plans. however, the level of our repurchases depends on a number of factors, including our financial condition, capital requirements, results of operations, future business prospects and other factors our board of directors may deem relevant. share repurchases are expected to be funded with available cash and commercial paper. repurchases under the new repurchase program may be made through open market purchases, private transactions, transactions structured through investment banking institutions, or any combination thereof. the timing, volume and nature of 2 table of contents share repurchases are subject to market conditions, applicable securities laws and other factors and are at our discretion and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. financial information about our business segments financial information with respect to our business segments, including revenue, operating income or loss and total assets, and with respect to our operations outside the united states, is contained in note 25: business segments in the notes and is incorporated herein by reference. description of business by segment rf communications rf communications is a global supplier of secure tactical radio communications and embedded high-grade encryption solutions for military, government and commercial organizations and also of secure communications systems and equipment for public safety, utility and transportation markets. rf communications is comprised of (i) u.s. department of defense and international tactical communications and (ii) public safety and professional communications. u.s. department of defense and international tactical communications: we design, develop and manufacture a comprehensive line of secure radio communications products and systems for manpack, handheld, soldier-worn, vehicular, strategic fixed-site and shipboard applications that operate in various radio frequency bands high-frequency ( hf ), very high-frequency ( vhf ) and ultra high-frequency ( uhf ) as well as in multiband mode and over satellite communications ( satcom ). these radio systems are highly flexible, interoperable and capable of supporting diverse mission requirements. our falcon family of tactical radios is built on a software-defined radio platform that is reprogrammable to add features or software upgrades. our falcon radios also have the highest grade embedded encryption and provide highly mobile, secure and reliable network communications capability without relying on a fixed infrastructure. this capability allows warfighters, for example, to remain connected with each other, their command structures and support organizations, and provides them the ability to communicate information and maintain situational awareness of both friendly and opposing forces, which are critical to both the safety and success of their missions. our falcon radio systems have been widely deployed in multiple variants of mine resistant ambush-protect ( mrap ) vehicles for the u.s. department of defense ( dod ). unlike many of our competitors in the u.s. government market, we operate this business on a commercial customer-driven business model, as opposed to a government programs-driven business model. this means that we anticipate market needs, invest our internal research and development resources, build to our internal forecast, and provide ready-to-ship, commercial, off-the-shelf ( cots ) products to customers more quickly than customers can typically obtain similar products under government-funded programs. our falcon iii family of radios is the next generation of multiband, multi-mission tactical radios supporting the u.s. military joint tactical radio system ( jtrs ) requirements as well as network-centric operations worldwide. our falcon iii radios address the full range of current mission and interoperability requirements and are fully upgradeable to address changing technical standards and mission requirements of the future. advances in our falcon iii radios include extended frequency range, significant reductions in weight and size compared with previous generations and programmable encryption. our falcon iii multiband handheld radio, the an/prc-152(c) ( 152c ), is the world most widely deployed jtrs-approved software-defined handheld radio and was our first falcon iii radio to be fielded. we have successfully fielded more than 100,000 152cs, which are widely fielded by all branches of the dod, many allies worldwide and u.s. federal agencies. the 152c offers users a wide range of capabilities, such as legacy single channel ground and airborne system ( sincgars ) interoperability; uhf ground-to-ground line-of-sight communications; close-air support; tactical satcom; and the association of public safety communications officials international ( apco ) p25 waveform to provide direct communications with first responders. the 152c also serves as the handheld-based transceiver of our falcon iii an/vrc-110, a high-performance, multiband vehicular system that offers the added feature of easy vehicle dismount a grab-and-go feature that delivers continuous communications when removed from the vehicle, an important capability in urban environments. our falcon iii multiband manpack radio, the an/prc-117g ( 117g ), is the first jtrs software communications architecture ( sca )-certified and national security agency ( nsa ) type-1 certified manpack radio system providing wideband networking capability, enabling the transition to a networked battlefield communications environment and high-bandwidth applications, including streaming video, simultaneous voice and data feeds, intelligence reporting and analysis, collaborative chat, route planning, convoy tracking, checkpoint biometrics and connectivity to secure networks ( siprnet ). the 117g uses the harris-developed adaptive 3 table of contents networking wideband waveform ( anw2 ) for high bandwidth data operation and is designed for future upgrade to the jtrs soldier radio waveform ( srw ). the 117g wideband network access capabilities give warfighters and field commanders critical real-time information. the 117g has been deployed to all branches of the dod and is being used in a wide variety of ground, vehicular and airborne applications, including intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance ( isr ). the 117g includes a remote operated video enhanced receiver ( rover ) interoperable mode that provides warfighters on the battlefield with the ability to receive live video directly from unmanned aerial vehicles ( uavs ). this capability allows users to receive video feeds directly from uavs without an intermediary or having to pass that information from a base station. our cryptographic solutions encompass nsa-certified products and systems that range from single integrated circuits to major communications systems, including our sierra and citadel embedded encryption solutions and kgv-72 blue force tracking programmable encryption devices and our secnet 11 and secnet 54 tm internet protocol ( ip ) communications families of communications security ( comsec ) terminals. in the international market, our tactical radios are the standard of nato and partnership for peace countries and have been sold to more than 100 countries through our strong, longstanding international distribution channels consisting of regional sales offices and a broad dealer network. international tactical radio demand is being driven by continuing tactical communications modernization and standardization programs to provide more sophisticated communications capabilities to address traditional and emerging threats and to provide interoperability. in fiscal 2011, we received tactical radio orders from, and/or made deliveries to, a wide range of international customers, including afghanistan, australia, brazil, canada, mexico and various countries in africa, asia and southeast asia that we are not permitted to name. additionally, we are providing integrated communications systems for the international market. our integrated systems offerings are largely based on our products, but include other companies products, as well as a wide variety of applications, in order to implement integrated command, control, communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance ( c4isr ) systems for many different types of platforms, including command post and transit case systems, vehicular and shelter communications systems and specialized airborne applications, which are frequently used in border security and surveillance systems. public safety and professional communications: we supply assured communications systems and equipment for public safety, federal, utility, commercial and transportation markets, with products ranging from complete end-to-end wireless network infrastructure solutions, including advanced ip voice and data networks, that support multiple platforms and provide interoperability among disparate systems, to portable and mobile single-band and multiband, multimode radios, to public safety-grade broadband voice, video and data solutions. on may 29, 2009, we acquired substantially all of the assets of the tyco electronics wireless systems business ( wireless systems ) (formerly known as m/a-com). our acquisition of wireless systems served to form our public safety and professional communications business. this business has more than 80 years of experience and supports over 500 systems around the world. as part of our business of designing, building, distributing, maintaining and supplying wireless communications systems, we offer our voice, interoperability, data and access ( vida ) network platform a unified ip-based voice and data communication system based on apco p25 industry standards that provides network-level interoperable communications among public safety agencies and that supports a full line of communications systems, including opensky , networkfirst, p25 ip and enhanced digital access communication system ( edacs ), allowing seamless interconnection of diverse systems. our vida network solutions currently serve as the backbone in some of the largest and most advanced statewide and regional communications networks in north america, including the commonwealth of pennsylvania and state of florida. in addition to a full range of single-band land mobile radio terminals, we offer our unity tm family of multiband radios, including the unity xg-100p handheld radio and the new unity xg-100m full-spectrum mobile radio for vehicles. our unity multiband radios cover all public safety frequency bands in a single radio; operate on apco p25 conventional and trunked systems; are backwards compatible with analog fm systems; and include advanced capabilities, such as an internal global positioning system ( gps ) receiver for situational awareness, internal secure bluetooth wireless technology, and background noise suppression features. they also include true software-defined radio architecture that allows flexibility for future growth, including a software-only upgrade to apco p25 phase 2, the next-generation emerging standard for mission-critical communications. our unity radios multiband, multi-mode capabilities enable a single radio to communicate with multiple organizations, jurisdictions and agencies operating on different frequencies and systems, thus providing a significant improvement over most current radio systems for u.s. public safety, which are not interoperable and thus require users to carry multiple radios or route transmissions through ad-hoc network bridges, often configured at the time of an emergency, and resulting in instances where agencies responding to a common incident cannot talk to each other. 4 table of contents we received two large, multi-year program awards in fiscal 2011, both in the third quarter: a contract by the government of alberta, canada to design and build the alberta first responders radio communications system that will provide public safety communications within the province 256,000 square-mile area, including an initial order of cad289 million; and a 10-year price agreement requirements contract by the state of oregon for the oregon state radio project ( osrp ) program designed to improve voice and data interoperability among state, local, county, tribal and federal agencies, under which oregon state and local agencies may purchase public safety communication systems, radios and other equipment. we received an initial order of $50 million under the osrp contract vehicle in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 that includes 4,200 of our new unity xg-100m multiband mobile radios. revenue, operating income and backlog: revenue for the rf communications segment increased 10.7 percent to $2,289 million in fiscal 2011 compared with $2,067 million in fiscal 2010, and was $1,761 million in fiscal 2009. segment operating income increased 11.3 percent to $787.0 million in fiscal 2011 compared with $707.4 million in fiscal 2010, and was $571.5 million in fiscal 2009. the rf communications segment contributed 39 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2011 compared with 40 percent in fiscal 2010 and 35 percent in fiscal 2009. the percentage of this segment revenue that was derived outside of the united states was 31 percent in fiscal 2011 compared with 20 percent in fiscal 2010 and 39 percent in fiscal 2009. in fiscal 2011, fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009, u.s. government customers, including the dod and intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military sales through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, accounted for approximately 63 percent of this segment total revenue. for a general description of our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, including a discussion of revenue generated from cost-reimbursable versus fixed-price contracts, see item 1. business principal customers; government contracts of this report. in general, this segment domestic products are sold and serviced directly to customers through its sales organization and through established distribution channels. internationally, this segment markets and sells its products and services through regional sales offices and established distribution channels. see item 1. business international business of this report. the funded backlog of unfilled orders for this segment was $1,503 million at july 1, 2011 compared with $1,764 million at july 2, 2010 and $922 million at july 3, 2009. we expect to fill approximately 62 percent of this funded backlog during fiscal 2012, but we can give no assurance of such fulfillment. additional information regarding funded backlog is provided under item 1. business funded and unfunded backlog of this report. for a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, see item 1. business principal customers; government contracts, item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this report. integrated network solutions our integrated network solutions segment addresses the fast-growing global market for integrated communications and information technology and services and provides a variety of trusted networking capabilities to support government, energy, healthcare, enterprise and broadcast customers. these capabilities include mission-critical end-to-end information technology ( it ) services; managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions; standards-based healthcare interoperability and image management solutions; cyber integration and cloud application hosting solutions; and digital media management solutions. it services: we provide end-to-end solutions in mission-critical it transformation, it services and information assurance. with over 3,000 professionals performing to the highest industry standards, we offer demonstrated past performance, proven technical expertise and innovative solutions in supporting large-scale it programs that encompass the full technology lifecycle, including network design, deployment, operations and ongoing support. our distributed workforce and extensive experience in performance-based contracting and it services are key factors in delivering results to our defense, intelligence, homeland security, civil and commercial customers. our it transformation solutions use a holistic approach built on proven methodologies to design, implement and manage enterprise-wide architectures that align it goals with customers business and mission goals. our standards-based, repeatable it transformation solutions unify, streamline and modernize unwieldy and disparate networks and systems across distributed environments, resulting in highly simplified, flexible, secure and manageable network infrastructures. our it services solutions include outsourced staffing and infrastructure, sustained by comprehensive operations and maintenance offerings, and are based on a flexible, scalable and repeatable service level agreement ( sla ) 5 table of contents performance-driven business model, frequently in a fixed-price environment. our it services solutions use an information technology infrastructure library ( itil )-based best-practices approach for optimizing and supporting it and communications environments, improving efficiencies, lowering operational costs and allowing customers to focus on mission performance. our information assurance solutions include architecture analysis; attack warning and defense; identity management; security assessments; certification and accreditation process support; forensics analysis and vulnerability remediation; system anomaly monitoring, detection and management; and physical security countermeasures. our information assurance solutions safeguard the confidentiality, integrity and availability of enterprise infrastructures, systems and critical business data over the full it lifecycle, from infrastructure design to integration and testing to operations and maintenance. those solutions meet widely used certification and accreditation standards, including the federal information security management act ( fisma ), the national security agency/central security service information system certification and accreditation process ( niscap ) and the department of defense information assurance certification and accreditation process ( diacap ). we design, deploy, operate and support customer-centric, secure communications systems and information networks for high-profile customers, and examples include the following: we provide operations and maintenance support at locations around the world for the communications functions for the u.s. air force 50th space wing satellite control network ( afscn ), a global, continuously operational network of ground stations, operational control nodes and communications links that support launch and command and control of various space programs managed by the dod and other national security space organizations, under the network and space operations and maintenance ( nsom ) program; we provide the u.s. navy with comprehensive, end-to-end support for data, video and voice communications for over 700,000 users as a tier one subcontractor under the navy/marine corps intranet ( nmci ) program; we provide operations, maintenance and support services for the global communications and information systems network for the national reconnaissance office ( nro ) under a program called patriot ; we provide it integration of installation, training, help desk, passport and configuration management services for the u.s. department of state, bureau of consular affairs in support of more than 230 u.s. embassies and consulates around the world; we provide system maintenance and engineering for the defense information systems agency ( disa ) crisis management system; we design and manage systems that combine ip television ( iptv ) and digital signage and it infrastructure to create an advanced media workflow for an in-arena network for the orlando magic new basketball arena; and we provide it services, content delivery, hardware and software for a project in collaboration with digital display networks, inc. and abc to create one of the largest digital out-of-home advertising networks in the world, 7-eleven tv, which has been installed in over 3,000 7-eleven stores. examples of awards we received in fiscal 2011 include a contract, with a potential value of $77 million, by the u.s. army materiel command ( amc ) to provide it infrastructure and follow-on operations and maintenance support for the relocation of the amc headquarters building to huntsville, alabama and a nine-year follow-on contract, with a potential value of cad 273 million, by the government of canada to provide engineering services to support the avionics systems on the cf-18 hornet fighter aircraft under the cf-18 avionics optimized weapon system support ( owss ) program. we also received a contract to install an advanced, digital, out-of-home and iptv network for the new madison square garden transformation project that will include 1,100 arena displays to deliver a dynamic viewing experience to fans. we also have key positions on a number of indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity ( idiq ) contracts for it services, including as a prime contractor under the u.s. air force network centric solutions ( netcents ) contract and as a prime contractor under the u.s. army ites-2s contract. our ites-2s task orders include the amc headquarters relocation example above and the migration and consolidation of the communications systems for nine u.s. southern command ( ussouthcom ) buildings into a new headquarters complex. managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions: we are a global provider of managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions, specifically for remote and harsh environments including the energy, government and maritime industries. we own and operate a robust global infrastructure that includes teleports on six continents; five network operations centers running 24 hours per day, seven days per week; local presence in 23 countries; and over 275 global field service personnel supporting customer locations across north america, central and south america, europe, west africa and asia-pacific. our customers include chevron, diamond offshore, 6 table of contents exxonmobil, halliburton, modec, shell, transocean, kbr, green reefers, gulf offshore, seatrans, oceaneering, subsea 7, the dod, the department of homeland security and other federal civilian u.s. government agencies, and in addition, we are a preferred supplier to the schlumberger group. our solutions include broadband internet access, voip telephony, wideband networking and real-time video, delivered to customer sites around the world. our managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions operations are the result of our combination in fiscal 2011 of (i) caprock, a global provider of mission-critical, managed satellite communications services for the government, energy and maritime industries, which we acquired on july 30, 2010; (ii) schlumberger gcs, a provider of satellite and terrestrial communications services for the worldwide energy industry, which we acquired on april 4, 2011; and (iii) the terrestrial network infrastructure assets of the government business of core180, inc. (the core180 infrastructure ) that we acquired in the third quarter of fiscal 2011, with (iv) our existing maritime communications services operations. examples of awards we received in fiscal 2011 include the following: four contracts to provide managed network services and more than 400 mhz of commercial satellite capacity to four separate u.s. government agencies, under which the services provided will be used to support a range of missions, including airborne isr, tactical field-deployed communications and continuity of operations; an option-year extension, with a potential value of $80 million, on the defense information systems network access transport services ( dats ) contract with the disa; three contracts from intelligence agency customers to provide satellite bandwidth, logistics and related communications services; a five-year contract with schahin brazil to provide data, voice and internet service to three drilling ships operating in the campos basin; 14 task orders on the disn satellite transmission services global ( dsts-g ) and future commercial satcom acquisition ( fcsa ) contracts, with a potential value of $150 million, to provide c-, ku-, and x-band space segment capacity, monitoring and control, teleport services, and operations and maintenance to dod agency customers operating in asia, europe, the united states and all major ocean regions; a three-year master service agreement, with a potential value of $58 million, to operate the offshore communications backbone ( ocb ), a modular system of seafloor communications equipment for deep-ocean observation located in the eastern mediterranean sea; and a two-year contract from odfjell drilling in norway for offshore satellite communications. healthcare solutions: we provide enterprise intelligence solutions and services for government and commercial customers including systems integration, intelligent infrastructure, interoperability, imaging and other it solutions. we are a leader in federal healthcare it integration, and we also offer commercial providers a full range of interoperability solutions, including it infrastructure and management, clinical workflow and analytics, health information exchange, and imaging. our products, systems and services help improve healthcare quality, safety, efficiency, cost and outcomes by ensuring that the right information travels, with security and privacy, to the right person, at the right time, on the right device, at the point of care. for example, we developed under a contract from the department of health and human services ( hhs ) an open-source national health information network ( nhin ) connect gateway solution designed to enable seamless health information sharing among multiple federal agencies and regional healthcare providers. we developed a multi-hospital military health network with image-sharing capabilities under the dod military health system global healthcare artifact and image management solution ( haims ) program. in fiscal 2011, we were one of eight companies in the large business category awarded the five-year transformation twenty-one total technology ( t4 ) idiq contracting vehicle from the department of veterans affairs ( va ) designed to upgrade the va it system and covering services that will streamline and modernize va operations, including patient care delivery at more than 150 va hospitals. we also were awarded a second va contract vehicle, the enhance the veteran experience and access to healthcare ( eveah ) blanket purchase agreement with a ceiling value of $199 million, and received initial task orders. after the close of fiscal 2011, we were awarded a contract from the va for the enterprise management foundation federated data repository ( emf fdr ) program to create a centralized network monitoring system that will provide the va with a unified view of its critical infrastructure. in addition, we have provided interoperability solutions for large-scale health information exchange enterprises such as the va, the dod and the social security administration. we also have extended federal interoperability solutions to the private sector where over half of all care is provided for active duty and retired service members. in 7 table of contents fiscal 2011, we were awarded a four-year contract by the state of florida agency for health care administration ( ahca ) to implement a statewide health information exchange ( hie ) that will improve the delivery and coordination of healthcare. as described under item 1. business recent acquisitions of this report, we acquired carefx during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011. carefx is a provider of interoperability workflow solutions for government and commercial healthcare providers, and its solution suite, fusionfx, gives care providers a unified look at patient data and closes data gaps to ensure a more consistent, higher quality experience for the patient, reducing clinical errors and increasing individual productivity. also in fiscal 2011, we received an option year extension from the va for healthcare imaging software and systems engineering services for the vista imaging application, and we announced a joint venture with johns hopkins medicine to focus on developing next-generation medical image management solutions to be deployed by the johns hopkins health system and later, to hospitals and healthcare providers around the united states. cyber integrated solutions: we are working closely with government and commercial organizations in introducing a new offering to help them move part or all of their operations to a trusted cloud computing environment in an effective and efficient manner by using our cyber integration capabilities to bring together an innovative combination of patented trust methodologies, industry-leading technologies, partnerships with market leaders and world-class infrastructure. for example, the harris trusted enterprise cloud tm is a newly launched cloud application hosting system that we offer as a unique infrastructure-as-a-service ( iaas ) designed to enable clients to extend and enhance their it operations in order to improve operational agility and reduce costs. our trusted enterprise cloud solution is delivered via the harris cyber integration center tm , located in our over 100,000-square-foot advanced data center facility in the mid-atlantic region. the center is an innovative cloud node that was designed from the ground up to offer technology and services that meet the highest industry and government standards for reliability and security. key differentiators in these offerings are our proprietary trust enablement technologies, including the global trust repository and the enterprise trust server, which provide continuous monitoring, assurance, and attestation that the software and configurations in the cloud computing environment are deployed and operating according to specification and have not been compromised, and which we also may license to partners and customers. in fiscal 2011, we announced a strategic alliance with emc corporation and the virtual computing environment company ( vce ) to jointly develop and market new trusted multi-tenant cloud solutions to further accelerate the adoption of cloud computing iaas by government and commercial enterprises. in pursuing these new, high-value applications for our capabilities and technologies, we are seeking to leverage our experience as an industry leader in cyber security. for example, we have been using state-of-the-art technology assessment techniques and architecture engineering for decades to define and operate secure networks supporting nationally critical programs, including three of the u.s. largest, secure mission-critical networks the federal aviation administration telecommunications infrastructure ( fti ) program network, the patriot program network and the nmci program network. our technology, countermeasures and monitoring capabilities safeguard vital information systems that support the critical missions of u.s. military, intelligence and federal law enforcement customers. broadcast and new media solutions: we offer hardware and software products, systems and services that provide interoperable workflow solutions for broadcast, cable, satellite and out-of-home networks worldwide. the harris one tm solution brings together highly integrated and cost-effective products that enable advanced media workflows for emerging content delivery business models. we are supporting customers as they upgrade media operations to digital and high definition ( hd ) services from analog and standard definition ( sd ) services and as they expand services for hd television ( hdtv ), iptv, video-on-demand and interactive tv. we serve the global digital and analog media markets, providing infrastructure and networking products and solutions; media and server systems; and television and radio transmission equipment and systems. our infrastructure and networking solutions offerings enable media companies to streamline workflow from production through transmission. we offer a portfolio of advanced products, including signal processors, routers, master control and branding systems, network monitoring and control software, test and measurement instruments, multi-image display processors, broadcast graphics, and highly differentiated network access and multiplex platforms. our media and server systems offerings enable customers to manage their digital media workflow and storage, as well as other key facets of an increasingly file-based broadcast environment, through our portfolio of software solutions for advertising, media management (traffic, billing and program scheduling), digital signage, broadband, digital asset management and play-out automation, and our family of scalable, interoperable video servers. 8 table of contents we develop, manufacture and supply television and radio transmission systems for delivery of rich media over wireless broadcast terrestrial networks on a worldwide basis, including mobile tv applications. we can provide single products or end-to-end systems, including nationwide networks with hundreds of transmitters. in addition, supporting digital out-of-home advertising is an emerging growth area, and our solutions enable advertisers to reach consumers on the move. we believe new systems will be increasingly deployed to deliver rich media content in live sports and entertainment venues and in retail establishments. for example, we helped design the system of iptv, digital signage and it infrastructure to create an in-arena network for the orlando magic new basketball arena, and we are providing hardware and software supporting content delivery for a project in collaboration with digital display networks, inc. and abc to create one of the largest digital out-of-home advertising networks in the world, 7-eleven tv, which has been installed in over 3,000 7-eleven stores. in fiscal 2011, we installed our first digital signage system in the united kingdom at harrods, a luxury department store, and began designing an advanced, digital, out-of-home and iptv network for the new madison square garden transformation project that will include 1,100 arena displays to deliver a dynamic viewing experience to fans. revenue, operating income and backlog: revenue for the integrated network solutions segment increased 33.7 percent to $1,986 million in fiscal 2011 compared with $1,485 million in fiscal 2010, and was $1,476 million in fiscal 2009. segment operating income decreased 18 percent to $70.2 million in fiscal 2011 compared with $85.3 million in fiscal 2010, and there was an operating loss of $133.6 million in fiscal 2009, which included a $255.5 million non-cash charge for impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets. the integrated network solutions segment contributed 34 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2011 compared with 29 percent in both fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009. the percentage of this segment revenue that was derived outside of the united states was approximately 30 percent in fiscal 2011 compared with 24 percent in both fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009. the following information pertains to the portions of this segment it services, managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions and healthcare solutions operations in connection with u.s. government programs ( integrated network solutions government business ): some of the more significant programs in fiscal 2011 included netcents, patriot, nmci, dats and nsom; the largest program by revenue in a particular fiscal year represented approximately 7 percent of this segment total revenue in fiscal 2011 compared with approximately 10 percent in fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009; the five largest programs by revenue in a particular fiscal year represented approximately 27 percent of this segment total revenue in fiscal 2011 compared with approximately 37 percent in fiscal 2010 and approximately 36 percent in fiscal 2009; u.s. government customers, including the dod and intelligence and civilian agencies, whether directly or through prime contractors, accounted for approximately 55 percent of this segment total revenue in fiscal 2011 compared with approximately 64 percent in fiscal 2010 and approximately 57 percent in fiscal 2009. for integrated network solutions government business, in fiscal 2011, approximately 78 percent of revenue was under direct contracts with customers and approximately 22 percent of revenue was under contracts with prime contractors, compared with approximately 61 percent of revenue under direct contracts with customers and approximately 39 percent of revenue under contracts with prime contractors in fiscal 2010 and approximately 58 percent of revenue under direct contracts with customers and approximately 42 percent of revenue under contracts with prime contractors in fiscal 2009. for a general description of our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, including a discussion of revenue generated from cost-reimbursable versus fixed-price contracts, see item 1. business principal customers; government contracts of this report. in general, this segment domestic products are sold and serviced directly to customers through its sales organization and through established distribution channels. internationally, this segment markets and sells its products and services through regional sales offices and established distribution channels. see item 1. business international business of this report. the funded backlog of unfilled orders for this segment was $1,064 million at july 1, 2011 compared with $649 million at july 2, 2010 and $632 million at july 3, 2009. unfunded backlog for this segment was $1,295 million at july 1, 2011 compared with $772 million at july 2, 2010 and $780 million at july 3, 2009. we expect to fill approximately 87 percent of this funded backlog during fiscal 2012, but we can give no assurance of such fulfillment. additional information regarding funded and unfunded backlog is provided under item 1. business funded and unfunded backlog of this report. for a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, 9 table of contents including risks relating to our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, see item 1. business principal customers; government contracts, item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this report. government communications systems government communications systems conducts advanced research and produces, integrates and supports highly reliable, net-centric communications and information technology that solve the mission-critical challenges of our civilian, defense and intelligence government customers, primarily the u.s. government, and is comprised of (i) civil programs, (ii) defense programs and (iii) national intelligence programs. civil programs: we provide highly reliable, mission-critical communications and information processing systems that meet the most demanding needs of customers in the u.s. civilian federal market, including the federal aviation administration ( faa ) and the national oceanic and atmospheric administration ( noaa ). we use our ability to implement and manage large, complex programs that integrate secure, advanced communications and information processing technologies in order to improve productivity and information processing and to achieve cost savings for our customers. our networks and information systems for large-scale, geographically dispersed enterprises offer advanced capabilities for collecting, processing, analyzing, interpreting, displaying, distributing, storing and retrieving data. we are a leader in satellite ground data processing and mission command-and-control ( c2 ) systems. our ground data processing systems consist of complex suites of hardware and software that receive sensor data from satellites, turning it into useable information. our c2 systems feature cots design and high levels of flexibility, are designed for government and commercial applications, and support single-satellite missions as well as some of the largest and most complex satellite fleets deployed. for example, we are the prime contractor and system architect under a 15-year contract awarded in july 2002, with a potential value of $3.5 billion, for the fti program to integrate, modernize, operate and maintain the communications infrastructure for the u.s. air traffic control system. fti is a modern, secure and efficient network providing voice, data and video communications deployed at more than 4,500 faa sites across the united states to enhance network efficiency, reliability and security and to improve service while reducing operating costs. we designed and deployed the fti network and it is fully operational. the fti network consists of the operations network, the mission support network, the satellite network and the microwave network. the supporting infrastructure includes the network operations control centers ( noccs ) and security operations control centers ( soccs ). the fti program has completed its equipment build-out phase and is transitioning to its telecommunication services and maintenance phase. other faa programs under which we have developed solutions include the following: the operational and supportability implementation system ( oasis ), for which we are the prime contractor and which provides integrated weather briefing and flight planning capabilities for preflight weather briefings and in-flight updates for alaska general aviation community. in fiscal 2011, we were awarded a follow-on contract by the faa to upgrade and manage the oasis system; the weather and radar processor ( warp ) system, a meteorological data processing system serving the en-route air traffic control environment that generates radar mosaic data for air traffic controller displays and delivers weather data to critical subsystems within the national airspace system ( nas ). in fiscal 2010, we were awarded a six-year contract, with a potential value of $97 million, by the faa under the warp maintenance and sustainment services ii program to continue to maintain the warp system by providing hardware and software maintenance, depot support, on-site field support and engineering services at 22 operational faa facilities in the united states; the voice switching and control system ( vscs ), which provides the critical air-to-ground communications links between en-route aircraft and air traffic controllers throughout the continental united states.; and the satellite-based alaskan nas interfacility communications system ( anics ), which links the alaskan air route traffic control center in anchorage with 64 faa facilities throughout the region. after the close of fiscal 2011, we were selected as the prime contractor under the alaska satellite telecommunications infrastructure ( asti ) program for a 10-year contract, with a potential value of $85 million, from the faa to upgrade the anics network by replacing and upgrading components and providing a new network management system, system security enhancements, logistics support and training in order to increase network performance and availability while reducing the faa operating and maintenance costs. another example of our capabilities relates to noaa geostationary operational environmental satellite series r ( goes-r ) ground and antenna segment weather programs. under two ten-year contracts, with an aggregate potential value of approximately $1 billion (including change orders), we are providing a complete, 10 table of contents end-to-end solution in which we will design, develop, deploy and operate the ground segment system that will receive and process satellite data and generate and distribute weather data to more than 10,000 direct users, as well as providing the command and control of operational satellites. we also are supplying antennas and control systems that will provide communications links for command, telemetry and sensor data, as well as the communications link to direct data users. the new antennas will operate with next-generation goes-r satellites and will be compatible with existing goes-n through goes-p satellites. defense programs: we develop, supply and integrate communications and information processing products, systems and networks for a diverse base of aerospace, terrestrial and maritime applications supporting dod missions, and we are committed to delivering leading-edge technologies that support the ongoing transformations of military communications for u.s. and international customers. our technologies are providing advanced mobile wideband networking capabilities to assure timely and secure network-centric capabilities across strategic, operational and tactical boundaries in support of the dod full spectrum of warfighting, intelligence and logistics missions. our major technology capabilities include advanced ground control systems and satcom terminals for transportable ground, fixed-site and shipboard applications; flat-panel, phased-array and single-mission antennas; advanced aviation electronics for military jets, including digital maps, modems, sensors, data buses, fiber optics and microelectronics; and high-speed data links and data networks for wireless communications. for example, our mobile ad hoc networking capability allows the military to take its communications infrastructure with it, creating mobile, robust, self-forming and self-healing networks across the battlefield. our highband networking radio tm ( hnr ) provides secure, wireless, high-bandwidth, on-the-move communications among users of widely dispersed local area networks ( lans ) by establishing line-of-sight connectivity using directive beam antenna technology and a harris-developed waveform that automatically selects the best communications path available, allowing seamless communication of voice, video and data to all levels of command. we announced in fiscal 2009 that our hnr system was deployed to the u.s. army 101st airborne division (air assault) 2nd brigade combat team in iraq, which was the first combat deployment of the hnr system. in fiscal 2010, we were awarded a contract to provide hnrs to form the communications backbone of the u.s. army new integrated air and missile defense battle command system ( ibcs ). we are currently producing and delivering hnrs under the u.s. army warfighter information network-tactical ( win-t ) program, and also we were awarded a contract in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 from the u.s. army for rapid deployment of hnrs into afghanistan. in fiscal 2011, we also introduced knighthawk tm 3g, a ruggedized, highly mobile tactical base station that enables warfighters on the move to maintain third generation ( 3g ) cellular services in locations with limited or no cellular connectivity. knighthawk 3g is a customizable cellular network in a box compatible with cots equipment, including smartphones and tablets. examples of ongoing programs for us include the following: the u.s. army modernization of enterprise terminals ( met ) program, for which we are developing, under a ten-year contract, with a potential value of $600 million, awarded to us in fiscal 2009, next-generation large satellite earth stations to provide the worldwide backbone for high-priority military communications and missile defense systems and to support ip and dedicated circuit connectivity within the global information grid ( gig ), providing critical reach-back capability for the warfighter; the f-35 joint strike fighter ( f-35 ), f-22 raptor and f/a-18e/f super hornet aircraft platform programs, for which we provide high-performance, advanced avionics such as high-speed fiber optic networking and switching, intra-flight data links, image processing, digital map software and other electronic components, including multifunction advanced data link ( madl ) communications subsystems primarily intended for stealth platform air-to-air communications and which allow f-35s to communicate in a stealth fashion with other network nodes without revealing their positions; the win-t program for the u.s. army, for which we are designing and testing the wireless transmission system architecture, applying our proven enabling technologies for wireless on-the-move communications, including phased arrays and high-speed secure wireless network solutions such as our hnr system; and the commercial broadband satellite program ( cbsp ) for the u.s. navy, for which we supply broadband multiband satcom terminals that support essential mission requirements and provide enhanced morale-related communications services such as high-speed internet access and video communications. national intelligence programs: a significant portion of this business involves classified programs. while classified programs generally are not discussed in this report, the operating results relating to classified programs are included in our consolidated financial statements. we believe that the business risks associated with those programs do not differ materially from the business risks of other u.s. government programs. 11 table of contents we are a major developer, supplier and integrator of communications and information processing products, systems and networks for a diverse base of u.s. intelligence community programs, and we support the ongoing transformation of the intelligence community into a more collaborative enterprise. serving primarily national intelligence and security agency customers, including nsa, nro and the national geospatial-intelligence agency ( nga ), we provide integrated isr solutions that improve situational awareness, data collection accuracy and product analysis by correlating near real-time mission data and intelligence reference data for display and analysis by strategic and tactical planners and decision makers. our isr systems help to integrate information across the analyst workflow, accelerating the movement of information that has been collected and processed. we strive to produce innovative isr solutions that provide our customers with information dominance for battle-space superiority. for example, our image processing capabilities extend from algorithm development through delivery of operations systems, and we are providing advanced image exploitation and dissemination solutions for isr applications by advancing image processing, image data fusion, display technologies and digital product generation techniques. those technologies range from new techniques for merging and displaying imagery to automated techniques for image screening, cueing and remote visualization. also, our mapping and visualization capabilities provide complete, accurate and timely knowledge about the threat, the terrain, the status and the location of single or multiple opposing and friendly forces and their support by utilizing data, pictures, voice and video drawn from vast storage banks or from real-time input which can be transmitted around the world in fractions of a second. in addition, we have industry-leading capabilities in the architecture, design and development of highly specialized satellite antennas, structures, phased arrays and on-board processors, which are used to enable next-generation satellite systems to provide the u.s. military and intelligence communities with strategic and tactical advantages. we are also a leader in the design and development of antenna and reflector technologies for commercial space telecommunications applications. further, our capabilities include developing and supplying state-of-the-art wireless voice and data products and solutions, including surveillance and tracking equipment, spanning vehicular, man-portable, airborne and system-level applications for the u.s. intelligence community and law enforcement community. we also offer cyber security solutions and enterprise analytics, including an array of mission-enabling engineering solutions that address both offensive and defensive it security challenges, providing critical support to federal law enforcement and other u.s. government agencies. during fiscal 2011, we were awarded a number of new contracts and follow-on contracts under classified programs. we also were awarded a 30-month contract by sierra nevada corporation to design, build and integrate the synthetic aperture radar ( sar ) satellite payload as part of nasa rapid response space works and modular space vehicles program; a three-year contract from boeing space and intelligence systems to build ka-band antennas for three inmarsat-5 satellites; and a three-year contract from boeing space and intelligence systems for a 22-meter deployable l-band reflector to support military and civil communications in mexico. in addition, our full motion video ( fmv ) initiatives support the isr market for fmv products and systems, including all u.s. government, international military and federal law enforcement activities for the harris full motion video asset management engine ( fame tm ) architecture and related technologies. fame is a cots-based collaborative platform that provides video, audio and metadata coding, video analytics, and archive capabilities all within a unified digital asset management solution giving our customers greater visibility and better access to increasing amounts of digital isr information, including higher-resolution fmv, motion imagery and visual imagery, such as that collected from manned and unmanned aircraft and ground-based sensors. revenue, operating income and backlog: revenue for the government communications systems segment increased 1.7 percent to $1,777 million in fiscal 2011 compared with $1,747 million in fiscal 2010, and was $1,864 million in fiscal 2009. segment operating income was $227.0 million in fiscal 2011 compared with $227.4 million in fiscal 2010 and $199.2 million in fiscal 2009. this segment contributed 30 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2011 compared with 34 percent in fiscal 2010 and 37 percent in fiscal 2009. in fiscal 2011, approximately 70 percent of revenue for this segment was under direct contracts with customers and approximately 30 percent of revenue was under contracts with prime contractors, compared with approximately 73 percent of revenue under direct contracts with customers and approximately 27 percent of revenue under contracts with prime contractors in fiscal 2010 and approximately 72 percent of revenue under direct contracts with customers and approximately 28 percent of revenue under contracts with prime contractors in fiscal 2009. some of this segment more significant programs in fiscal 2011 included fti, goes-r, f-35, met, win-t and various classified and space communications systems programs. this segment largest program by revenue in a particular fiscal year represented approximately 14 percent of this segment revenue in fiscal 2011 compared with approximately 14 percent in fiscal 2010 and approximately 19 percent in fiscal 2009. this segment ten largest programs by revenue in a particular fiscal year represented approximately 46 percent of this segment revenue in fiscal 2011, 12 table of contents compared with approximately 46 percent in fiscal 2010 and approximately 50 percent in fiscal 2009. in fiscal 2011, this segment had a diverse portfolio of approximately 200 programs. u.s. government customers, including the dod and intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military sales through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, accounted for approximately 97 percent of this segment total revenue in fiscal 2011 compared with approximately 94 percent in both fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009. for a general description of our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, including a discussion of revenue generated from cost-reimbursable versus fixed-price contracts, see item 1. business principal customers; government contracts of this report. the funded backlog of unfilled orders for this segment was $800 million at july 1, 2011 compared with $848 million at july 2, 2010 and $762 million at july 3, 2009. unfunded backlog for this segment was $3,193 million at july 1, 2011 compared with $2,504 million at july 2, 2010 and $3,223 million at july 3, 2009. we expect to fill approximately 81 percent of this funded backlog during fiscal 2012, but we can give no assurance of such fulfillment. additional information regarding funded and unfunded backlog is provided under item 1. business funded and unfunded backlog of this report. for a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, see item 1. business principal customers; government contracts, item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this report. international business revenue from products and services exported from the united states (including foreign military sales) or manufactured or rendered abroad was $1,307.1 million (22 percent of our total revenue) in fiscal 2011 compared with $724.6 million (14 percent of our total revenue) in fiscal 2010 and $1,016.6 million (20 percent of our total revenue) in fiscal 2009. essentially all of the international sales are derived from our rf communications and integrated network solutions segments. direct export sales are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars, whereas sales from foreign subsidiaries are generally denominated in the local currency of the subsidiary. financial information regarding our domestic and international operations is contained in note 25: business segments in the notes and is incorporated herein by reference. our principal international manufacturing facilities are located in canada and the united kingdom. the majority of our international marketing activities are conducted through subsidiaries which operate in canada, europe, central and south america, and asia. we have also established international marketing organizations and several regional sales offices. reference is made to exhibit 21 subsidiaries of the registrant of this report for further information regarding our international subsidiaries. we utilize indirect sales channels, including dealers, distributors and sales representatives, in the marketing and sale of some lines of products and equipment, both domestically and internationally. these independent representatives may buy for resale or, in some cases, solicit orders from commercial or governmental customers for direct sales by us. prices to the ultimate customer in many instances may be recommended or established by the independent representative and may be above or below our list prices. our dealers and distributors generally receive a discount from our list prices and may mark up those prices in setting the final sales prices paid by the customer. revenue from indirect sales channels in fiscal 2011 represented 10 percent of our total revenue and approximately 40 percent of our international revenue, compared with revenue from indirect sales channels in fiscal 2010 representing 6 percent of our total revenue and approximately 35 percent of our international revenue, and revenue from indirect sales channels in fiscal 2009 representing 11 percent of our total revenue and approximately 55 percent of our international revenue. fiscal 2011 international revenue came from a large number of countries, and no such single country accounted for more than 4 percent of our total revenue. some of our exports are paid for by letters of credit, with the balance carried either on an open account or installment note basis. advance payments, progress payments or other similar payments received prior to or upon shipment often cover most of the related costs incurred. significant foreign government contracts generally require us to provide performance guarantees. in order to stay competitive in international markets, we also sometimes enter into recourse and vendor financing arrangements to facilitate sales to certain customers. the particular economic, social and political conditions for business conducted outside the united states differ from those encountered by domestic businesses. our management believes that the overall business risk for the international business as a whole is somewhat greater than that faced by our domestic operations as a whole. a description of the types of risks to which we are subject in international business is contained in item 1a. risk factors of this report. nevertheless, in the opinion of our management, these risks are partially mitigated by the diversification of the international business and the protection provided by letters of credit and advance payments. 13 table of contents competition we operate in highly competitive markets that are sensitive to technological advances. although successful product and systems development is not necessarily dependent on substantial financial resources, many of our competitors in each of our businesses are larger than we are and can maintain higher levels of expenditures for research and development. in each of our businesses we concentrate on the market opportunities that our management believes are compatible with our resources, overall technological capabilities and objectives. principal competitive factors in these businesses are product quality and reliability; technological capabilities; service; past performance; ability to develop and implement complex, integrated solutions; ability to meet delivery schedules; the effectiveness of third-party sales channels in international markets; and cost-effectiveness. within the it services market, there is intense competition among many companies. the ability to compete in the it services market depends on a number of factors, including the capability to deploy skilled professionals at competitive prices across the diverse spectrum of the it services market. in the rf communications segment, principal competitors include european aeronautic defence and space company n.v. ( eads ), general dynamics, itt industries, motorola solutions, raytheon, rohde schwarz, tadiran and thales. in the integrated network solutions segment, principal competitors include avid, computer sciences corporation, evertz, evs corporation, general dynamics, globecomm, harmonic, hewlett packard, lockheed martin, mantech, miranda, mtn, nci information systems, nec, northrop grumman, omnibus, raytheon, rignet, rohde schwarz, sony broadcast, stratos, tcs, technicolor, tektronix/danaher, telos corporation, thomson, and vizada, as well as other smaller companies and divisions of large companies. in the government communications systems segment, principal competitors include bae systems, boeing, general dynamics, l-3 communications, lockheed martin, northrop grumman, raytheon and rockwell collins. we frequently partner or are involved in subcontracting and teaming relationships with companies that are, from time to time, competitors on other programs. principal customers; government contracts sales to u.s. government customers, including the dod and intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military sales through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, were 72 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2011 compared with 75 percent in fiscal 2010 and 74 percent in fiscal 2009. no other customer accounted for more than 1 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2011. additional information regarding customers for each of our segments is provided under item 1. business description of business by segment of this report. our u.s. government sales are predominantly derived from contracts with agencies of, and prime contractors to, the u.s. government. most of the sales of our government communications systems segment and of the portions of our integrated networks solutions segment it services, managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions and healthcare solutions operations in connection with u.s. government programs are made directly or indirectly to the u.s. government under contracts or subcontracts containing standard government contract clauses providing for redetermination of profits, if applicable, and for termination for the convenience of the u.s. government or for default based upon performance. our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts include both cost-reimbursable and fixed-price contracts. governmentwide acquisition contracts ( gwacs ) and idiq contracts, which can include task orders for each contract type, require us to compete both for the initial contract and then for individual task or delivery orders under such contracts. our u.s. government cost-reimbursable contracts provide for the reimbursement of allowable costs plus the payment of a fee. our u.s. government cost-reimbursable contracts fall into three basic types: (i) cost-plus fixed-fee contracts, which provide for the payment of a fixed fee irrespective of the final cost of performance; (ii) cost-plus incentive-fee contracts, which provide for increases or decreases in the fee, within specified limits, based upon actual results compared with contractual targets relating to factors such as cost, performance and delivery schedule; and (iii) cost-plus award-fee contracts, which provide for the payment of an award fee determined at the discretion of the customer based upon the performance of the contractor against pre-established performance criteria. under our u.s. government cost-reimbursable contracts, we are reimbursed periodically for allowable costs and are paid a portion of the fee based on contract progress. some overhead costs have been made partially or wholly unallowable for reimbursement by statute or regulation. examples are certain merger and acquisition costs, lobbying costs, charitable contributions and certain litigation defense costs. our u.s. government fixed-price contracts are either firm fixed-price contracts or fixed-price incentive contracts. under our u.s. government firm fixed-price contracts, we agree to perform a specific scope of work for a 14 table of contents fixed price and, as a result, benefit from cost savings and carry the burden of cost overruns. under our u.s. government fixed-price incentive contracts, we share with the u.s. government both savings accrued from contracts performed for less than target costs as well as costs incurred in excess of targets up to a negotiated ceiling price (which is higher than the target cost), but carry the entire burden of costs exceeding the negotiated ceiling price. accordingly, under such incentive contracts, profit may also be adjusted up or down depending upon whether specified performance objectives are met. under our u.s. government firm fixed-price and fixed-price incentive contracts, we usually receive either milestone payments equaling 100 percent of the contract price or monthly progress payments from the u.s. government in amounts equaling 80 percent of costs incurred under the contract. the remaining amounts, including profits or incentive fees, are billed upon delivery and final acceptance of end items and deliverables under the contract. our u.s. government fixed-price contracts generally have higher profit margins than our u.s. government cost-reimbursable contracts. our production contracts are mainly fixed-price contracts, and development contracts are generally cost-reimbursable contracts. as stated above, u.s. government contracts are terminable for the convenience of the u.s. government, as well as for default based on performance. companies supplying goods and services to the u.s. government are dependent on congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of funds and may be affected by changes in u.s. government policies resulting from various military, political, economic and international developments. long-term u.s. government contracts and related orders are subject to cancellation if appropriations for subsequent performance periods become unavailable. under contracts terminable for the convenience of the u.s. government, a contractor is entitled to receive payments for its allowable costs and, in general, the proportionate share of fees or earnings for the work done. contracts that are terminable for default generally provide that the u.s. government pays only for the work it has accepted and may require the contractor to pay for the incremental cost of reprocurement and may hold the contractor liable for damages. in many cases, there is also uncertainty relating to the complexity of designs, necessity for design improvements and difficulty in forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work. under many u.s. government contracts, we are required to maintain facility and personnel security clearances complying with dod and other federal agency requirements. for further discussion of risks relating to u.s. government contracts, see item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this report. funded and unfunded backlog our total company-wide funded and unfunded backlog was approximately $7,786 million at july 1, 2011 compared with approximately $6,526 million at july 2, 2010 and $6,317 million at july 3, 2009. the funded portion of this backlog was approximately $3,358 million at july 1, 2011 compared with approximately $3,250 million at july 2, 2010 and $2,315 million at july 3, 2009. the determination of backlog involves substantial estimating, particularly with respect to customer requirements contracts and development and production contracts of a cost-reimbursable or incentive nature. we define funded backlog as unfilled firm orders for products and services for which funding has been authorized and, in the case of u.s. government agencies, appropriated. we define unfunded backlog as primarily unfilled firm contract value for which funding has not yet been authorized or, in the case of u.s. government agencies, appropriated, including the value of contract options in cases of material contracts that have options we believe are probable of being exercised. we do not include potential task or delivery orders under idiq contracts in our backlog. in fiscal 2012, we expect to fill approximately 75 percent of our total funded backlog as of july 1, 2011. however, we can give no assurance of such fulfillment or that our funded backlog will become revenue in any particular period, if at all. backlog is subject to delivery delays and program cancellations, which are beyond our control. additional information with regard to the backlog of each of our segments is provided under item 1. business description of business by segment of this report. research, development and engineering research, development and engineering expenditures totaled approximately $983 million in fiscal 2011, $1,047 million in fiscal 2010 and $1,003 million in fiscal 2009. company-sponsored research and product development costs, which included research and development for commercial products and services and independent research and development related to government products and services, as well as concept formulation studies and bid and proposal efforts, were approximately $336 million in fiscal 2011, $326 million in fiscal 2010 and $244 million in fiscal 2009. a portion of our independent research and development costs are allocated among contracts and programs in process under u.s. government contractual arrangements. company-sponsored research and product development costs not otherwise allocable are charged to expense when incurred. the portion of total research, development and engineering expenditures that was not company-sponsored was funded by the u.s. government and is included in our revenue. customer-sponsored research and development was $647 million 15 table of contents in fiscal 2011, $721 million in fiscal 2010 and $759 million in fiscal 2009. company-sponsored research is directed to the development of new products and services and to building technological capability in selected communications and electronic systems markets. u.s. government-funded research helps strengthen and broaden our technical capabilities. all of our segments maintain their own engineering and new product development departments, with scientific assistance provided by advanced-technology departments. as of july 1, 2011, we employed approximately 7,100 engineers and scientists and are continuing efforts to make the technologies developed in any of our operating segments available for all other operating segments. patents and other intellectual property we consider our patents and other intellectual property, in the aggregate, to constitute an important asset. we routinely apply for and own a large and valuable portfolio of patents, trade secrets, know-how, confidential information, trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property. we also license intellectual property to and from third parties. as of july 1, 2011, we held approximately 950 u.s. patents and 850 foreign patents, and had approximately 500 u.s. patent applications pending and 1,140 foreign patent applications pending. unpatented research, development and engineering skills also make an important contribution to our business. while our intellectual property rights in the aggregate are important to our business and the operations of our operating segments, we do not consider our business or any operating segment to be materially dependent upon any single patent, license or other intellectual property right, or any group of related patents, licenses or other intellectual property rights. we are engaged in a proactive patent licensing program and have entered into a number of licenses and cross-license agreements, some of which generate royalty income. although existing license agreements have generated income in past years and may do so in the future, there can be no assurances we will enter into additional income-producing license agreements. from time to time we engage in litigation to protect our patents and other intellectual property. any of our patents, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights and other proprietary rights could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or may not provide competitive advantages. for further discussion of risks relating to intellectual property, see item 1a. risk factors of this report. with regard to patents relating to our government communications systems segment, the u.s. government often has an irrevocable, non-exclusive, royalty-free license, pursuant to which the u.s. government may use or authorize others to use the inventions covered by such patents. pursuant to similar arrangements, the u.s. government may consent to our use of inventions covered by patents owned by other persons. numerous trademarks used on or in connection with our products are also considered to be a valuable asset. environmental and other regulations our facilities and operations are subject to numerous domestic and international laws and regulations designed to protect the environment, particularly with regard to wastes and emissions. the applicable environmental laws and regulations are common within the industries and markets in which we operate and serve. we believe that we have complied with these requirements and that such compliance has not had a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. based upon currently available information, we do not expect expenditures over the next several years to protect the environment and to comply with current environmental laws and regulations, as well as to comply with current and pending climate control legislation, regulation, treaties and accords, to have a material impact on our competitive position or financial condition, but we can give no assurance that such expenditures will not exceed current expectations. if future treaties, laws and regulations contain more stringent requirements than presently anticipated, actual expenditures may be higher than our present estimates of those expenditures. we have installed waste treatment facilities and pollution control equipment to satisfy legal requirements and to achieve our waste minimization and prevention goals. we did not spend material amounts on environmental capital projects in fiscal 2011, fiscal 2010 or fiscal 2009. a portion of our environmental expenditures relates to discontinued operations for which we have retained certain environmental liabilities. we currently expect that amounts to be spent for environmental-related capital projects will not be material in fiscal 2012. these amounts may increase in future years. additional information regarding environmental and regulatory matters is set forth in item 3. legal proceedings of this report and in note 1: significant accounting policies in the notes. electronic products are subject to governmental environmental regulation in a number of jurisdictions. equipment produced by our integrated network solutions segment, in particular, is subject to domestic and international requirements requiring end-of-life management and/or restricting materials in products delivered to customers, including the european union directive 2002/96/ec on waste electrical and electronic equipment ( weee ) and directive 2002/95/ec on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment ( rohs ), as amended. other jurisdictions have adopted similar legislation. such requirements typically are not applicable to most equipment produced by our government communications systems 16 table of contents and rf communications segments. we believe that we have complied with such rules and regulations, where applicable, with respect to our existing products sold into such jurisdictions. we intend to comply with such rules and regulations with respect to our future products. broadcast and wireless communications (whether tv, radio, satellite or telecommunications) are also subject to governmental regulation. equipment produced by our integrated network solutions and rf communications segments, in particular, is subject to domestic and international requirements to avoid interference among users of radio and television frequencies and to permit interconnection of telecommunications equipment. additionally, our managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions operations hold licenses for very small aperture terminals ( vsats ) and satellite earth stations, which authorize operation of networks and teleports. we are also required to comply with technical operating and licensing requirements that pertain to our wireless licenses and operations. we believe that we have complied with such rules and regulations and licenses with respect to our existing products and services, and we intend to comply with such rules and regulations and licenses with respect to our future products and services. governmental reallocation of the frequency spectrum also could impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. raw materials and supplies because of the diversity of our products and services, as well as the wide geographic dispersion of our facilities, we use numerous sources for the wide array of raw materials (such as electronic components, printed circuit boards, metals and plastics) needed for our operations and for our products. we are dependent upon suppliers and subcontractors for a large number of components and subsystems and the ability of our suppliers and subcontractors to adhere to customer or regulatory materials restrictions and to meet performance and quality specifications and delivery schedules. in some instances, we are dependent upon one or a few sources, either because of the specialized nature of a particular item or because of local content preference requirements pursuant to which we operate on a given project. while we have been affected by financial and performance issues of some of our suppliers and subcontractors, we have not been materially adversely affected by the inability to obtain raw materials or products. on occasion, we have experienced component shortages from vendors as a result of natural disasters, or the rohs environmental regulations in the european union or similar regulations in other jurisdictions. these events or regulations may cause a spike in demand for certain electronic components (such as lead-free components), resulting in industry-wide supply chain shortages. to date, these component shortages have not had a material adverse effect on our business. for further discussion of risks relating to subcontractors and suppliers, see item 1a. risk factors of this report. seasonality we do not consider any material portion of our business to be seasonal. various factors can affect the distribution of our revenue between accounting periods, including the timing of contract awards and the timing and availability of u.s. government funding, as well as the timing of product deliveries and customer acceptance. employees we employed approximately 16,900 employees at the end of fiscal 2011 compared with approximately 15,800 employees at the end of fiscal 2010. approximately 88 percent of our employees as of the end of fiscal 2011 were located in the united states. a significant number of employees in our government communications systems segment possess a u.s. government security clearance. we also utilize a number of independent contractors. none of our employees in the united states is represented by a labor union. in certain international subsidiaries, our employees are represented by workers councils or statutory labor unions. in general, we believe that our relations with our employees are good. website access to harris reports; available information general. we maintain an internet website at http://www.harris.com. our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to such reports, filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act, are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the securities and exchange commission (the sec ). we also will provide the reports in electronic or paper form free of charge upon request. we also make available free of charge on our website our annual report to shareholders and proxy statement. our website and the information posted thereon are not incorporated into this report or any current or other periodic report that we file with or furnish to the sec. all reports we file with or furnish to the sec also are available free of charge via the sec electronic data gathering and retrieval ( edgar ) system available through the sec website at http://www.sec.gov . 17 table of contents additional information relating to our businesses, including our operating segments, is set forth in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report. corporate governance principles and committee charters. we previously adopted corporate governance principles, which are available on the corporate governance section of our website at www.harris.com/harris/cg/ . in addition, the charters of each of the standing committees of our board, namely, the audit committee, business conduct and corporate responsibility committee, corporate governance committee, finance committee and management development and compensation committee, are also available on the corporate governance section of our website. a copy of the charters is also available free of charge upon written request to our secretary at harris corporation, 1025 west nasa boulevard, melbourne, florida 32919. certifications. we have filed with the sec the certifications required by section 302 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 as exhibits to this report. in addition, an annual ceo certification was submitted by our chief executive officer to the new york stock exchange ( nyse ) in november 2010 in accordance with the nyse listing standards, which included a certification that he was not aware of any violation by harris of the nyse corporate governance listing standards. item 1a. risk factors. we have described many of the trends and other factors that we believe could impact our business and future results in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report. in addition, our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition are subject to, and could be materially adversely affected by, various risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, those set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or our anticipated future results. we depend on u.s. government customers for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of this relationship or a shift in u.s. government funding priorities could have adverse consequences on our future business. we are highly dependent on sales to u.s. government customers. the percentage of our net revenue that was derived from sales to u.s. government customers, including the dod and intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military sales through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, was approximately 72 percent in fiscal 2011, 75 percent in fiscal 2010 and 74 percent in fiscal 2009. therefore, any significant disruption or deterioration of our relationship with the u.s. government would significantly reduce our revenue. our u.s. government programs must compete with programs managed by other government contractors for limited resources and for uncertain levels of funding. our competitors continuously engage in efforts to expand their business relationships with the u.s. government and will continue these efforts in the future, and the u.s. government may choose to use other contractors. we expect that a majority of the business that we seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through competitive bidding. the u.s. government has increasingly relied on certain types of contracts that are subject to a competitive bidding process, including idiq, gwac, general services administration ( gsa ) schedule and other multi-award contracts, which has resulted in greater competition and increased pricing pressure. we operate in highly competitive markets and our competitors may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do in some areas, and we may not be able to continue to win competitively awarded contracts or to obtain task orders under multi-award contracts. further, the competitive bidding process involves significant cost and managerial time to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us, and the risk that we may fail to accurately estimate the resources and costs required to fulfill any contract awarded to us. following any contract award, we may experience significant expense or delay, contract modification or contract rescission as a result of our competitors protesting or challenging contracts awarded to us in competitive bidding. budget decisions made by the u.s. government are outside of our control and have long-term consequences for our business. a shift in u.s. government spending priorities or an increase in non-procurement spending at the expense of our programs (for example, through in-sourcing ), or a reduction in total u.s. government spending, could have material adverse consequences on our future business. we depend significantly on u.s. government contracts, which often are only partially funded, subject to immediate termination, and heavily regulated and audited. the termination or failure to fund one or more of these contracts could have an adverse impact on our business. over its lifetime, a u.s. government program may be implemented by the award of many different individual contracts and subcontracts. the funding of u.s. government programs is subject to congressional appropriations. 18 table of contents although multi-year contracts may be authorized and appropriated in connection with major procurements, congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis. procurement funds are typically made available for obligation over the course of three years. consequently, programs often receive only partial funding initially, and additional funds are obligated only as congress authorizes further appropriations. the termination of funding for a u.s. government program would result in a loss of anticipated future revenue attributable to that program, which could have an adverse impact on our operations. in addition, the termination of a program or the failure to commit additional funds to a program that already has been started could result in lost revenue and increase our overall costs of doing business. generally, u.s. government contracts are subject to oversight audits by u.s. government representatives. such audits could result in adjustments to our contract costs. any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, and such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. we have recorded contract revenues based upon costs we expect to realize upon final audit. however, we do not know the outcome of any future audits and adjustments and we may be required to materially reduce our revenues or profits upon completion and final negotiation of audits. negative audit findings could also result in termination of a contract, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the u.s. government. in addition, u.s. government contracts generally contain provisions permitting termination, in whole or in part, without prior notice at the u.s. government convenience upon the payment only for work done and commitments made at the time of termination. we can give no assurance that one or more of our u.s. government contracts will not be terminated under these circumstances. also, we can give no assurance that we would be able to procure new contracts to offset the revenue or backlog lost as a result of any termination of our u.s. government contracts. because a significant portion of our revenue is dependent on our performance and payment under our u.s. government contracts, the loss of one or more large contracts could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. our government business also is subject to specific procurement regulations and a variety of socio-economic and other requirements. these requirements, although customary in u.s. government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. these costs might increase in the future, thereby reducing our margins, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could lead to fines, penalties, repayments, or compensatory or treble damages, or suspension or debarment from u.s. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. among the causes for debarment are violations of various laws, including those related to procurement integrity, export control, u.s. government security regulations, employment practices, protection of the environment, accuracy of records, proper recording of costs and foreign corruption. the termination of a u.s. government contract or relationship as a result of any of these acts would have an adverse impact on our operations and could have an adverse effect on our standing and eligibility for future u.s. government contracts. we enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses in the event of cost overruns or a significant increase in inflation. we have a number of firm fixed-price contracts. these contracts allow us to benefit from cost savings, but they carry the risk of potential cost overruns because we assume all of the cost burden. if our initial estimates are incorrect, we can lose money on these contracts. u.s. government contracts can expose us to potentially large losses because the u.s. government can hold us responsible for completing a project or, in certain circumstances, paying the entire cost of its replacement by another provider regardless of the size or foreseeability of any cost overruns that occur over the life of the contract. because many of these contracts involve new technologies and applications and can last for years, unforeseen events, such as technological difficulties, fluctuations in the price of raw materials, problems with our suppliers and cost overruns, can result in the contractual price becoming less favorable or even unprofitable to us over time. the united states also may experience a significant increase in inflation. a significant increase in inflation rates could have a significant adverse impact on the profitability of these contracts. furthermore, if we do not meet contract deadlines or specifications, we may need to renegotiate contracts on less favorable terms, be forced to pay penalties or liquidated damages or suffer major losses if the customer exercises its right to terminate. in addition, some of our contracts have provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights, and if we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts we may not realize their full benefits. our results of operations are dependent on our ability to maximize our earnings from our contracts. cost overruns could have an adverse impact on our financial results. the potential impact of such risk on our financial results would increase if the mix of our contracts and programs shifted toward a greater percentage of firm fixed-price contracts. 19 table of contents we could be negatively impacted by a security breach, through cyber attack, cyber intrusion or otherwise, or other significant disruption of our it networks and related systems or of those we operate for certain of our customers. we face the risk, as does any company, of a security breach, whether through cyber attack or cyber intrusion over the internet, malware, computer viruses, attachments to e-mails, persons inside our organization or persons with access to systems inside our organization, or other significant disruption of our it networks and related systems. we face an added risk of a security breach or other significant disruption of the it networks and related systems that we develop, install, operate and maintain for certain of our customers, which may involve managing and protecting information relating to national security and other sensitive government functions. the risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. as a communications and it company, and particularly as a government contractor, we face a heightened risk of a security breach or disruption from threats to gain unauthorized access to our and our customers proprietary or classified information on our it networks and related systems and to the it networks and related systems that we operate and maintain for certain of our customers. these types of information and it networks and related systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day-to-day operations, and, in some cases, are critical to the operations of certain of our customers. although we make significant efforts to maintain the security and integrity of these types of information and it networks and related systems, and we have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption, there can be no assurance that our security efforts and measures will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging. even the most well protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because attempted security breaches, particularly cyber attacks and intrusions, or disruptions will occur in the future, and because the techniques used in such attempts are constantly evolving and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed not be detected and, in fact, may not be detected. in some cases, the resources of foreign governments may be behind such attacks. accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures, and thus it is virtually impossible for us to entirely mitigate this risk. a security breach or other significant disruption involving these types of information and it networks and related systems could: disrupt the proper functioning of these networks and systems and therefore our operations and/or those of certain of our customers; result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of proprietary, confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable information of ours or our customers, including trade secrets, which others could use to compete against us or for disruptive, destructive or otherwise harmful purposes and outcomes; compromise national security and other sensitive government functions; require significant management attention and resources to remedy the damages that result; subject us to claims for contract breach, damages, credits, penalties or termination; or damage our reputation among our customers (particularly agencies of the u.s. government and potential customers of cyber integrated solutions) and the public generally, any or all of which could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we derive a significant portion of our revenue from international operations and are subject to the risks of doing business internationally, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates. we are dependent on sales to customers outside the united states. in fiscal 2011, fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009, revenue from products and services exported from the u.s. or manufactured or rendered abroad was 22 percent, 14 percent and 20 percent, respectively, of our total revenue. approximately 33 percent of our international business in fiscal 2011 was transacted in local currency. losses resulting from currency rate fluctuations can adversely affect our results. we expect that international revenue will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue. also, a significant portion of our international revenue is from, and an increasing portion of our business activity is being conducted in, less-developed countries. we are subject to risks of doing business internationally, including: currency exchange controls, fluctuations of currency and currency revaluations; the laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments relating to investments and operations, as well as u.s. laws affecting the activities of u.s. companies abroad, including the foreign corrupt practices act; 20 table of contents changes in regulatory requirements, including business or operating license requirements, imposition of tariffs or embargoes, export controls and other trade restrictions; uncertainties and restrictions concerning the availability of funding, credit or guarantees; the complexity and necessity of using international dealers, distributors, sales representatives and consultants; the difficulties of managing a geographically dispersed organization and culturally diverse workforces, including compliance with local laws and practices; difficulties associated with repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner and changes in tax laws; import and export licensing requirements and regulations, as well as unforeseen changes in export regulations; uncertainties as to local laws and enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights and occasional requirements for onerous contract clauses; and rapid changes in government, economic and political policies, political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of international boycotts or u.s. anti-boycott legislation. our reputation and ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of our employees, agents or business partners. we have implemented compliance controls, policies and procedures designed to prevent reckless or criminal acts from being committed by our employees, agents or business partners that would violate the laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including laws governing payments to government officials (such as the foreign corrupt practices act), and to detect any such reckless or criminal acts committed. we cannot ensure, however, that our controls, policies and procedures will prevent or detect all such reckless or criminal acts. if not prevented, such reckless or criminal acts could subject us to civil or criminal investigations and monetary and non-monetary penalties and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct business, our results of operations and our reputation. we may not be successful in obtaining the necessary export licenses to conduct certain operations abroad, and congress may prevent proposed sales to certain foreign governments. we must first obtain export and other licenses and authorizations from various u.s. government agencies before we are permitted to sell certain products and technologies outside of the united states. for example, the u.s. department of state must notify congress at least 15-60 days, depending on the size and location of the sale, prior to authorizing certain sales of defense equipment and services to foreign governments. during that time, congress may take action to block the proposed sale. we can give no assurance that we will continue to be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses or authorizations or that congress will not prevent or delay certain sales. any significant impairment of our ability to sell products or technologies outside of the united states could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. the continued effects of the general downturn in the global economy and the u.s. government budget deficits and national debt could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results or financial condition. there has been a general downturn in the global economy and the economies of the united states and many foreign countries in which we do business continue to show weakness. although governments worldwide, including the u.s. government, have initiated sweeping economic plans, we are unable to predict the impact, severity and duration of these economic events. the continuing effects of the general downturn in the global economy and the u.s. government budget deficits and national debt could have an adverse impact on our business, operations results or financial condition in a number of ways. possible effects of these economic conditions include the following: the u.s. government could reduce or delay its spending on, reprioritize its spending away from, the government programs in which we participate; the u.s. government may be unable complete its budget process before the end of its fiscal year on september 30 and thus would be required either to shut down or to be funded pursuant to a continuing resolution that authorizes agencies of the u.s. government to continue operations but does not authorize new spending initiatives, either of which could result in reduced or delayed orders or payments for products and services we provide. while this historically has not had a material adverse impact on our business, operating results or financial condition, if the u.s. government budget process results in a shutdown or prolonged operation under a continuing resolution, it may decrease our revenues, profitability or cash flows or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. 21 table of contents we may experience declines in revenues, profitability and cash flows as a result of reduced or delayed orders or payments or other factors caused by the economic problems of our customers and prospective customers (including u.s. federal, state and local governments); we may experience supply chain delays, disruptions or other problems associated with financial constraints faced by our suppliers and subcontractors; and we may incur increased costs or experience difficulty with future borrowings under our commercial paper program or credit facilities or in the debt markets, or otherwise with financing our operating, investing (including any future acquisitions) or financing activities. our future success will depend on our ability to develop new products, services and technologies that achieve market acceptance in our current and future markets. both our commercial and government businesses are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry standards. accordingly, our performance depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: identify emerging technological trends in our current and target markets; develop and maintain competitive products and services; enhance our offerings by adding innovative hardware, software or other features that differentiate our products and services from those of our competitors; and develop, manufacture and bring cost-effective offerings to market quickly. we believe that, in order to remain competitive in the future, we will need to continue to develop new products, services and technologies, requiring the investment of significant financial resources. the need to make these expenditures could divert our attention and resources from other projects, and we cannot be sure that these expenditures ultimately will lead to the timely development of new products, services or technologies. due to the design complexity of some of our products, services and technologies, we may experience delays in completing development and introducing new products, services or technologies in the future. any delays could result in increased costs of development or redirect resources from other projects. in addition, we cannot provide assurances that the markets for our products, services or technologies will develop as we currently anticipate. the failure of our products, services or technologies to gain market acceptance could significantly reduce our revenue and harm our business. furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing products, services or technologies that gain market acceptance in advance of our products, services or technologies, or that our competitors will not develop new products, services or technologies that cause our existing products, services or technologies to become non-competitive or obsolete, which could adversely affect our results of operations. the future direction of the domestic and global economies, including its impact on customer demand, also will have a significant impact on our overall performance. we participate in markets that are often subject to uncertain economic conditions, which makes it difficult to estimate growth in our markets and, as a result, future income and expenditures. we participate in u.s. and international markets that are subject to uncertain economic conditions. as a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth in the markets in which we participate. because all components of our budgeting and forecasting are dependent upon estimates of growth in the markets we serve, the uncertainty renders estimates of or guidance relating to future revenue, income and expenditures even more difficult. as a result, we may make significant investments and expenditures but never realize the anticipated benefits. we cannot predict the consequences of future geo-political events, but they may adversely affect the markets in which we operate, our ability to insure against risks, our operations or our profitability. ongoing instability and current conflicts in the middle east and asia and the potential for further conflicts and future terrorist activities and other recent geo-political events throughout the world have created economic and political uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and profitability. these matters cause uncertainty in the world financial and insurance markets and may increase significantly the political, economic and social instability in the geographic areas in which we operate. these matters also have caused the premiums charged for our insurance coverages to increase and may cause further increases or some coverages to be unavailable altogether. 22 table of contents we have made, and may continue to make, strategic acquisitions that involve significant risks and uncertainties. we have made, and we may continue to make, strategic acquisitions that involve significant risks and uncertainties. these risks and uncertainties include: difficulty in identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions, including the risk that our due diligence does not identify or fully assess valuation issues, potential liabilities or other acquisition risks; difficulty in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations, including combining product and service offerings, and in entering into new markets in which we are not experienced, in an efficient and cost-effective manner while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures, and the risk that we encounter significant unanticipated costs or other problems associated with integration; difficulty in consolidating and rationalizing it infrastructure, which may include multiple legacy systems from various acquisitions and integrating software code; challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits expected from acquisitions; risk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the strategic acquisitions do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; risk that we assume significant liabilities that exceed the limitations of any applicable indemnification provisions or the financial resources of any indemnifying parties; potential loss of key employees or customers of the acquired businesses; and risk of diverting the attention of senior management from our existing operations. disputes with our subcontractors and the inability of our subcontractors to perform, or our key suppliers to timely deliver our components, parts or services, could cause our products or services to be produced or delivered in an untimely or unsatisfactory manner. on many of our contracts, we engage subcontractors. we may have disputes with our subcontractors, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor, customer concerns about the subcontract, our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders under a subcontract, our hiring of the personnel of a subcontractor or vice versa or the subcontractor failure to comply with applicable law. in addition, there are certain parts, components and services for many of our products and services which we source from other manufacturers or vendors. some of our suppliers, from time to time, experience financial and operational difficulties, which may impact their ability to supply the materials, components, subsystems and services that we require. any inability to develop alternative sources of supply on a cost-effective and timely basis could materially impair our ability to manufacture and deliver products and services to our customers. we can give no assurances that we will be free from disputes with our subcontractors, material supply problems or component, subsystems or services problems in the future. also, our subcontractors and other suppliers may not be able to acquire or maintain the quality of the materials, components, subsystems and services they supply, which might result in greater product returns, service problems and warranty claims and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. third parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their intellectual property rights, and third parties may infringe upon our intellectual property rights. many of the markets we serve are characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights, which often has resulted in protracted and expensive litigation. third parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing or to have infringed directly or indirectly upon those intellectual property rights. claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. moreover, we may not be able to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us, or at all. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain of our products, services and solutions. our success depends in large part on our proprietary technology. we rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, know-how, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. if we fail to successfully protect and enforce these rights, our competitive position could suffer. our pending patent and trademark registration applications may not be allowed, or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents or trademark registrations. in addition, our patents may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and police our intellectual property rights. we may not be able to detect infringement and our competitive position may be harmed before we do so. in addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. 23 table of contents the outcome of litigation or arbitration in which we are involved is unpredictable and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we are defendants in a number of litigation matters and, from time to time, are involved in a number of arbitrations. these actions may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. no assurances can be given that the results of these or new matters will be favorable to us. an adverse resolution of lawsuits or arbitrations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we face certain significant risk exposures and potential liabilities that may not be covered adequately by insurance or indemnity. we are exposed to liabilities that are unique to the products and services we provide. a significant portion of our business relates to designing, developing and manufacturing advanced defense, technology and communications systems and products. new technologies associated with these systems and products may be untested or unproven. components of certain of the defense systems and products we develop are inherently dangerous. failures of satellites, missile systems, air traffic control systems, homeland security applications and aircraft have the potential to cause loss of life and extensive property damage. in most circumstances, we may receive indemnification from the u.s. government. while we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, and we may be forced to bear substantial costs from an accident or incident. it also is not possible to obtain insurance to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. substantial claims resulting from an incident in excess of u.s. government indemnity and our insurance coverage could harm our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. moreover, any accident or incident for which we are liable, even if fully insured, could negatively affect our standing among our customers and the public, thereby making it more difficult for us to compete effectively, and could significantly impact the cost and availability of adequate insurance in the future. changes in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. our future effective tax rate may be adversely affected by a number of factors including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not fully deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation expense; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; changes in domestic or international tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws; and the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact our results of operations for future periods. we have significant operations in florida and other locations that could be materially and adversely impacted in the event of a natural disaster or other significant disruption. our corporate headquarters and significant operations of our government communications systems segment are located in florida, where major hurricanes have occurred. our worldwide operations and operations of our suppliers could be subject to natural disasters or other significant disruptions, including hurricanes, typhoons, tsunamis, floods, earthquakes, fires, water shortages, other extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics, acts of terrorism, power shortages and blackouts, telecommunications failures, cyber attacks and other natural and manmade disasters or disruptions. in the event of such a natural disaster or other disruption, we could experience disruptions or interruptions to our operations or the operations of our suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers or customers; destruction of facilities; and/or loss of life, all of which could materially increase our costs and expenses and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in the regulatory framework under which our managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions operations are operated could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. our domestic satellite and terrestrial communications solutions are currently provided on a private carrier basis and are therefore subject to lighter regulation by the federal communications commission (the fcc ) and other federal, state and local agencies than if provided on a common carrier basis. our international satellite and 24 table of contents terrestrial communications solutions operations are regulated by governments of various countries other than the united states and by other international authorities. the regulatory regimes applicable to our international satellite and terrestrial communications solutions operations frequently require that we obtain and maintain licenses for our operations and conduct our operations in accordance with prescribed standards. compliance with such requirements may inhibit our ability to quickly expand our operations into new countries, including in circumstances in which such expansion is required in order to provide uninterrupted service to existing customers with mobile operations as they move to new locations on short notice. failure to comply with such regulatory requirements could subject us to various penalties or sanctions. the adoption of new laws or regulations, changes to the existing domestic or international regulatory framework, new interpretations of the laws that apply to our operations, or the loss of, or a material limitation on, any of our material licenses could materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. we rely on third parties to provide satellite bandwidth for our managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions, and any bandwidth constraints could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. in our managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions operations, we compete for satellite bandwidth with other commercial entities, such as other satellite communications services providers and broadcasting companies, and with governmental entities, such as the military. in certain markets and at certain times, satellite bandwidth may be limited and/or pricing of satellite bandwidth could be subject to competitive pressure. in such cases, we may be unable to secure sufficient bandwidth needed to provide our managed satellite communications services, either at favorable rates or at all. this inability could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in future business conditions could cause business investments and/or recorded goodwill to become impaired, resulting in substantial losses and write-downs that would reduce our results of operations. as part of our overall strategy, we will, from time to time, acquire a minority or majority interest in a business. these investments are made upon careful analysis and due diligence procedures designed to achieve a desired return or strategic objective. these procedures often involve certain assumptions and judgment in determining acquisition price. after acquisition, unforeseen issues could arise which adversely affect the anticipated returns or which are otherwise not recoverable as an adjustment to the purchase price. even after careful integration efforts, actual operating results may vary significantly from initial estimates. goodwill accounts for approximately 39 percent of our recorded total assets as of july 1, 2011. we evaluate the recoverability of recorded goodwill amounts annually, as well as when we change reportable segments and when events or circumstances indicate there may be an impairment. the annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. principally, a decrease in expected reportable segment cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill. for additional information on accounting policies we have in place for goodwill impairment, see our discussion under critical accounting policies and estimates in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report and note 1: significant accounting policies and note 22: impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets in the notes. we must attract and retain key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. our business has a continuing need to attract significant numbers of skilled personnel, including personnel holding security clearances, to support our growth and to replace individuals who have terminated employment due to retirement or for other reasons. to the extent that the demand for qualified personnel exceeds supply, as has been the case from time to time in recent years, we could experience higher labor, recruiting or training costs in order to attract and retain such employees, or could experience difficulties in performing under our contracts if our needs for such employees were unmet. in addition, we are currently undertaking a search for a successor chief executive officer, which is a critical management position. the search for and transition to a successor chief executive officer may result in disruptions to our business and uncertainty among investors, employees and others concerning our future direction and performance. it also may be more difficult for us to recruit and retain other personnel until a successor chief executive officer is identified and the transition is completed. any such disruptions and uncertainty, as well as the failure to successfully identify, attract and/or retain a successor chief executive officer or other executives and key employees could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 57 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of doing business, we are exposed to the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rates and changes in interest rates. we employ established policies and procedures governing the use of financial instruments to manage our exposure to such risks. for a discussion of such policies and procedures and the related risks, see financial risk management in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report, which is incorporated by reference into this item 7a. 57 table of contentsrisk factors 14 risk factors below. forward-looking statements are made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended, and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, and we undertake no obligation, other than imposed by law, to update forward-looking statements to reflect further developments or information obtained after the date of filing of this annual report on form 10-k or, in the case of any document incorporated by reference, the date of that document, and disclaim any obligation to do so. part i item 1. business. harris harris corporation, together with its subsidiaries, is an international communications and information technology company focused on providing assured communications products, systems and services for government and commercial customers. our operating divisions serve markets for government communications, secure tactical radios, microwave communications and broadcast communications and systems. harris was incorporated in delaware in 1926 as the successor to three companies founded in the 1890s. our principal executive offices are located at 1025 west nasa boulevard, melbourne, florida 32919, and our telephone number is (321) 727-9100. our common stock is listed on the new york stock exchange under the symbol hrs. on august 18, 2006, we employed approximately 13,900 people. we sell products in more than 150 countries. unless the context otherwise requires, the terms we, our, us, company, and harris as used in this annual report on form 10-k refer to harris corporation and its subsidiaries. general we structure our operations around the following four business segments: (1) government communications systems, (2) rf communications, (3) microwave communications, and (4) broadcast communications. in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, in conjunction with the sale of our tools and test systems ( tts ) product line, we changed our segment reporting structure by eliminating the network support segment as a separate reportable segment. the tts product line is reported as a discontinued operation, and the netboss network operations software business, which was part of the network support segment, has been consolidated into the microwave communications segment. segment information for all periods presented has been reclassified to reflect such segment reporting structure. unless otherwise noted, disclosures in this annual report on form 10-k relate only to our continuing operations. financial information with respect to all of our other activities, including corporate costs not allocated to the operating segments or discontinued operations, is reported as part of headquarters expense or non-operating income (loss). each of our business segments, which we also refer to as divisions, has been organized on the basis of specific communications markets. each business segment has its own marketing, engineering, manufacturing and product service and maintenance organization. we produce most of the products we sell. our total revenue in fiscal 2006 was approximately $3.5 billion compared to approximately $3.0 billion in fiscal 2005. total revenue in the united states increased approximately 12 percent from fiscal 2005 while international revenue, which amounted to approximately 21 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2006, increased 1 table of contents approximately 34 percent from fiscal 2005. our net income for fiscal 2006 was $237.9 million compared to $202.2 million in fiscal 2005, an increase of 18 percent. recent acquisitions acquisition of leitch technology corporation. on october 25, 2005, we acquired leitch technology corporation ( leitch ), a publicly-held provider of high-performance video systems for the television broadcast industry, including routers and distribution equipment, signal processing, signal management and monitoring, servers and storage area networks, branding software and post-production editing systems. the cash purchase price for leitch, including assumed liabilities, was approximately $513 million. the leitch business is being operated within our broadcast communications segment. acquisition of optimal solutions, inc. on april 28, 2006, we acquired optimal solutions, inc. ( osi ), a privately-held provider of air-time sales, traffic and billing software to broadcast stations. the acquisition of osi expands our capabilities in enterprise-wide software for managing and scheduling advertising and programming for broadcasters. the purchase price for osi, including assumed liabilities, was approximately $37 million. the purchase price, which is subject to post-closing adjustment, may be increased if certain operating goals are achieved. the osi business is being operated within our broadcast communications segment. acquisition of aastra digital video. on may 31, 2006, we acquired aastra digital video, a business unit of aastra technologies limited. aastra digital video develops and markets video networking, encoding, decoding and multiplexing technologies used by television broadcasters, telecommunications providers and satellite networks. the purchase price for aastra digital video, including assumed liabilities, was approximately $36 million. the aastra digital video business is being operated within our broadcast communications segment. subsequent event agreement with stratex networks, inc. on september 5, 2006, we announced that we entered into a definitive agreement with stratex networks, inc. ( stratex networks ), a publicly held provider of high-speed wireless transmission systems, under which we will combine our microwave communications division with stratex networks to form a new company named harris stratex networks, inc. under the terms of the agreement, we will contribute our microwave communications division and $25 million of cash in exchange for approximately 56 percent ownership of the combined company. stratex networks shareholders will exchange their existing ownership of stratex networks for approximately 44 percent ownership of the combined company. the transaction is subject to approval by stratex networks shareholders, customary regulatory approvals, and other customary closing conditions. following the closing, it is expected that harris stratex networks, inc. will be listed on the nasdaq global market. the transaction is expected to close during the second or third quarter of our fiscal year 2007. the financial results of harris stratex networks, inc. will be reflected in our consolidated financial statements, with appropriate elimination of the minority interest not held by us. financial information about our business segments financial information with respect to our business segments, including revenue, operating income or loss and total assets, is contained in note 23: business segments in the notes to consolidated financial statements (the notes ) and is incorporated herein by reference. financial information with respect to our operations outside the united states is also contained in note 23: business segments in the notes and is incorporated herein by reference. description of business by segment government communications systems government communications systems designs, develops and supports state-of -the-art communications and information networks and equipment; develops intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance solutions; designs and supports information systems for image and other data collection, processing, interpretation, storage and retrieval; and offers engineering, operations and support services. this segment serves a diversified customer base within the u.s. government, including the department of defense ( dod ), federal aviation administration ( faa ), national reconnaissance office ( nro ), national geospatial-intelligence agency ( nga ), census bureau, department of state, national security agency ( nsa ), national oceanic and atmospheric administration ( noaa ), defense information systems agency ( disa ) and other government agencies. government communications systems also provides services, systems and products for other aerospace and defense companies, including lockheed martin corporation, the boeing company, northrop grumman 2 table of contents corporation, space systems/ loral and itt industries. the government communications systems segment serves four strategic program areas: department of defense programs: government communications systems is a major supplier of spaceborne and airborne communications and information processing systems and equipment. government communications systems provides military satellite communications, data links, avionics, network communications, large deployable satellite antenna systems, and flat-panel, phased-array and single-mission antennas. government communications systems is a supplier of high-frequency satellite ground terminals for the dod, supplying the u.s. army, navy, air force and marines. government communications systems is providing high-speed networking and satellite communications, including processors, encryptors and terminals, to assist the dod ongoing transformation of military communications. the dod global information grid will provide forces with access to information when and where they need it via secure, interoperable and mobile communications networks. a key element of this information grid is the u.s. army warfighter information network tactical ( win-t ), for which government communications systems is providing secure, high-speed wireless local area networking and phased array capabilities for win-t wireless transmission system. government communications systems is also providing multiband satellite communications technology and development to the u.s. navy advanced extremely high frequency ( aehf ) satellite program, supplying four navy multiband terminal prototypes to support the aehf program. these terminals will allow units at sea and onshore to communicate from anywhere via military and commercial satellites simultaneously, and will enable secure command and control capability and enhanced communications, such as tactical data and imagery, real-time video, battlefield maps, and targeting information. government communications systems is developing network-centric communications system architectures and technologies that will link sensors, platforms, weapons and soldiers and is also developing open-architecture, directional, mobile ad hoc networking capabilities. during fiscal 2006, government communications systems was awarded significant contracts, including: a three-year, $27 million contract to develop and integrate a communications system that will link the u.s. navy advanced deployable system undersea surveillance sensors with host littoral combat ships; a contract with the u.s. air force for anti-jam gps technology for munitions; a contract to develop an encrypted data link system for an air force missile; and a contract to develop a solid state recording device for army helicopters. ongoing previously awarded programs also include: a contract to provide tactical common data links for the u.s. navy light airborne multi-purpose system ( lamps ) helicopters; a contract to provide large unfurlable spaceborne antennas for the mobile user objective system, a narrowband tactical satellite communications system that will enhance the u.s. navy existing satellite tactical communications system; a contract with the u.s. navy for multi-band shipboard satellite communications terminals ( mssct ); contracts for portions of the communications systems for the ground-based midcourse defense ( gmd ) program (formerly known as national missile defense); follow-on awards for the u.s. army multiple launch rocket system program, including improved fire control systems ( ifcs ); a contract for multi-function information distribution systems ( mids ) terminals for aircraft such as the u.s. navy f/a-18 and the u.s. air force f-16, as well as ground-based applications; and contracts for the f-22 raptor, f/a-18e/f super hornet and f-35 joint strike fighter aircraft platforms to provide high-performance, advanced avionics such as high-speed fiber optic networking and switching, intra-flight data links, image processing, digital map software and other electronic components. national programs: government communications systems also is a provider of communications equipment and systems, and image and information processing solutions to national intelligence and security agencies and customers. government communications systems provides comprehensive solutions for intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance. government communications systems addresses each of the six steps of the intelligence cycle: tasking, collection, processing, exploitation, dissemination and analysis of information. government communications systems provides communications equipment, advanced imagery products and information processing for intelligence systems, and develops and supplies state-of -the-art wireless surveillance and tracking equipment for vehicular, man-portable, airborne, and remote/unattended applications. such intelligence and surveillance solutions help improve situational awareness, data collection accuracy and product analysis by correlating near real-time mission data and intelligence reference data for display and analysis by strategic and tactical planners and decision makers. a significant portion of this program area involves classified programs. while classified programs generally are not discussed in this annual report on form 10-k, the operating results relating to classified programs are included in our consolidated financial statements, and the business risks associated with such programs do not differ materially from those of other u.s. government programs. during fiscal 2006, government communications systems was awarded a contract with space systems/loral to design and construct four unfurlable mesh reflectors for commercial satellites. during fiscal 2005, government communications systems was awarded a three-year, potential $77 million rapidly 3 table of contents deployable integrated command and control system ( radic ) program by the nsa to develop a knowledge-management software system for its analysts. government communications systems is also supplying geospatial and imagery-derived products for the nga under the global geospatial intelligence program, including foundation data products, three-dimensional visualization, mapping and charting production services, surveying services and production management. civil programs: government communications systems also is a supplier to civilian agencies of the u.s. government, including the faa and the census bureau, supplying these agencies with custom systems and software designed to collect, store, retrieve, process, analyze, interpret, display and distribute information, including meteorological data processing systems, electronic archival systems, graphic information systems and telecommunication services systems. government communications systems provides systems integration to large-scale, geographically dispersed enterprises. government communications systems is assisting the faa in modernizing the u.s. air traffic control system and infrastructure. for example, we are the prime contractor on a 15-year, $2.2 billion contract to integrate and modernize the faa telecommunications infrastructure ( fti ). this program is consolidating telecommunications at more than 4,400 faa facilities nationwide, while reducing operating costs, enhancing network security and improving service. during fiscal 2005, we were awarded a further contract by the faa to add mission support services to the fti program, as well as a follow-on contract for the faa weather and advanced radar processing system. the total contract amount for the fti program, including options, could reach $3.5 billion through 2017. government communications systems is also working with the faa on other programs, including the voice switching and control system program, which allows air traffic controllers to establish critical air-to -ground and ground-to -ground communications with pilots as well as other air traffic controllers. government communications systems also is a developer of complex, large-scale databases and information systems and services. government communications systems is the prime contractor for the u.s. census bureau master address file/ topologically integrated geographic encoding and referencing accuracy improvement project ( mtaip ). the mtaip contract was awarded to harris in 2002 and during fiscal 2006 the u.s. census bureau exercised its option to extend the contract for four years. currently anticipated to provide total revenue of $210 million over an eight-year period ending in 2010, the mtaip program will provide a computer database of all addresses and locations where people live or work, covering an estimated 115 million residences and 60 million businesses in the u.s. during fiscal 2006, government communications systems was awarded a five-year, $600 million contract from the u.s. census bureau as prime contractor for its field data collection automation ( fdca ) program. under the fdca program, government communications systems will integrate multiple automated systems required to obtain data from field census takers during the 2010 census. the automated system will capture information collected during field interviews. during fiscal 2005, government communications systems, together with broadcast communications, completed a contract to rebuild the iraqi media network ( imn ), which is bringing modern radio, tv broadcast and newspaper infrastructure and media content to the people of iraq. technical services programs: government communications systems also provides technical engineering, operations and services to the u.s. government. such services include information technology outsourcing, enterprise management, engineering and systems design. information technology outsourcing services include data entry, network administration, system operations and maintenance and procurement and logistics support. enterprise management services include systems engineering and integration, network design, capacity expansions and information assurance and security. during fiscal 2005, government communications systems was selected by the nro to provide operations, maintenance and support services for the agency global communications and information systems ( patriot ) program which is expected to yield more cost-effective information technology service management. this program has a potential value of $1 billion over 10 years. during fiscal 2005, government communications systems was also awarded a contract with a potential value of $175 million, over nine years, from the disa in support of its crisis management system. under the mission communications operations and maintenance ( mcom ) program, government communications systems provides operations and maintenance services to the u.s. air force satellite control network communications functions at schriever afb, colorado, and onizuka afs, california. under the operational space services and support ( osss ) program, government communications systems provides operations and maintenance services to the air force satellite control network remote tracking stations and global positioning satellite sites worldwide. during the first quarter of fiscal 2005, harris completed the acquisition of the orkand corporation ( orkand ), a privately-held provider of technical services and information technology for u.s. government agencies, including the department of state, department of labor, department of the interior, department of 4 table of contents health and human services, and department of energy. the acquisition of orkand continues to provide insight into additional opportunities with these new customers. revenue, backlog and contracts: revenue in fiscal 2006 for the government communications systems segment increased to $1,813 million from $1,805 million in fiscal 2005 and $1,506 million in fiscal 2004. segment operating income increased 6 percent to $216.5 million from $203.4 million in fiscal 2005 and $153.4 million in fiscal 2004. this segment contributed 52 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2006, 60 percent in fiscal 2005 and 60 percent in fiscal 2004. in fiscal 2006, approximately 33 percent of the revenue for this segment was under contracts with prime contractors and approximately 67 percent was under direct contracts with customers, compared to 28 percent of revenue under contracts with prime contractors and 72 percent of revenue under direct contracts with customers in fiscal 2005. some of this segment significant programs in fiscal 2006 included the fti program, the patriot program, the mcom program, the f-35 joint strike fighter platform and various classified programs. other significant programs included the aehf, f/ a-18e/ f, ifcs, mtaip, mids, mssct and the u.s. air force family of beyond line-of -sight ( fab-t ) program and several classified programs. the largest program by revenue represented approximately 10 percent of this segment revenue for fiscal 2006, compared to approximately 6 percent for fiscal 2005. the 10 largest programs by revenue represented approximately 33 percent of this segment revenue in fiscal 2006, 31 percent in fiscal 2005 and approximately 30 percent in fiscal 2004. this segment currently has a diverse portfolio of approximately 300 programs, each having a value over $1 million. historically, this diversity has provided a stable backlog and reduced potential risks that come from reductions in funding or changes in customer priorities. in fiscal 2006, u.s. government customers, whether directly or through prime contractors, accounted for approximately 95 percent of this segment total revenue compared to 91 percent in fiscal 2005, with the dod accounting for 56 percent of this segment fiscal 2006 revenue and the faa accounting for 13 percent. the funded backlog of unfilled orders for this segment was $382 million at july 28, 2006, compared with $410 million at july 29, 2005 and $463 million at july 30, 2004. substantially all this funded backlog is expected to be filled during fiscal 2007, but we can give no assurance of such fulfillment. unfunded backlog for this segment was $4,159 million at july 28, 2006, compared with $4,019 million at july 29, 2005 and $3,170 million at july 30, 2004. additional information regarding funded and unfunded backlog for this segment is provided under item 1. business funded and unfunded backlog. most of the sales of the government communications systems segment are made directly or indirectly to the u.s. government under contracts or subcontracts containing standard government contract clauses providing for redetermination of profits, if applicable, and for termination at the convenience of the u.s. government or for default based upon performance of the contractor. this segment contracts include both cost-reimbursement and fixed-price contracts. cost-reimbursement contracts provide for the reimbursement of allowable costs plus the payment of a fee. these contracts fall into three basic types: (i) cost-plus fixed-fee contracts, which provide for the payment of a fixed fee irrespective of the final cost of performance; (ii) cost-plus incentive-fee contracts, which provide for increases or decreases in the fee, within specified limits, based upon actual results compared to contractual targets relating to factors such as cost, performance and delivery schedule; and (iii) cost-plus award-fee contracts, which provide for the payment of an award fee determined at the discretion of the customer based upon the performance of the contractor against pre-established performance criteria. under cost-reimbursement contracts, this segment is reimbursed periodically for allowable costs and is paid a portion of the fee based on contract progress. some costs incident to performing a contract have been made partially or wholly unallowable for reimbursement by statute or regulation. examples are certain merger and acquisition costs, lobbying costs and certain litigation defense costs. this segment fixed-price contracts are either firm fixed-price contracts or fixed-price incentive contracts. under firm fixed-price contracts, this segment agrees to perform a specific scope of work for a fixed price and, as a result, benefits from cost savings and carries the burden of cost overruns. under fixed-price incentive contracts, this segment shares with the u.s. government both savings accrued from contracts performed for less than target costs as well as costs incurred in excess of targets up to a negotiated ceiling price (which is higher than the target cost), but carries the entire burden of costs exceeding the negotiated ceiling price. accordingly, under such incentive contracts, profit may also be adjusted up or down depending upon whether specified performance objectives are met. under firm fixed-price and fixed-price incentive contracts, this segment usually receives either milestone payments equaling 100 percent of the contract price or monthly progress payments from the u.s. government in amounts equaling 75 percent of costs incurred under u.s. government contracts. the remaining amounts, including profits or incentive fees, are billed upon delivery and final acceptance of end items and deliverables under the contract. fixed-price contracts generally have higher profit margins than cost-reimbursement contracts. production contracts are mainly fixed-price contracts, and development contracts are 5 table of contents generally cost-reimbursement contracts. for fiscal 2006, 52 percent of the revenue of this segment was generated from cost-reimbursement contracts and 48 percent was generated from fixed-price contracts compared to 60 percent and 40 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2005 and 68 percent and 32 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2004. for a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, see item 1. business principal customers; government contracts, item 3. legal proceedings and item 1a. risk factors. rf communications rf communications is a worldwide supplier of secure voice and data radio communications products, systems and networks to the dod, federal and state agencies, and military, government, and commercial organizations worldwide. rf communications offers a comprehensive line of secure radio products and systems for manpack, handheld, vehicular, strategic fixed-site and shipboard applications. these radio systems are highly flexible, interoperable and capable of supporting diverse mission requirements. rf communications falcon family of tactical radios includes the falcon ii secure high-frequency, very high-frequency, ultra high-frequency and multiband software-defined tactical radios, and the falcon iii multiband handheld and vehicular radio systems. these radios are built on a software-defined radio platform that is reprogrammable to add features or software upgrades. software-defined radio technology offers significantly increased flexibility in support of a variety of wireless communications protocols. these radios also have military-strength embedded encryption and can be linked to computers, providing network capabilities on the battlefield. the falcon iii an/ prc-152(c) has been certified by the nsa for the protection of voice and data traffic up through top secret/ sci level. the joint tactical radio system ( jtrs ) software communications architecture ( sca ) of the an/ prc-152(c) has been certified sca compliant with waivers by the joint program executive office joint tactical radio system test and evaluation laboratory ( jpeo jtel ). falcon iii radios provide interoperability with key legacy waveforms, including single channel ground and airborne systems ( sincgars ), and can be configured to accommodate vehicle-mounted functionality while providing handheld portability for quick-dismount scenarios. these radios provide soldiers with total battlefield connections, including secure ground-to -air and tactical satellite communications, and an embedded global positioning system for situational awareness. rf communications provides embedded encryption. its sierra tm ii cryptographic subsystem is a miniaturized programmable module that can be integrated into radios and other voice and data communications devices to encrypt classified information prior to transmission and storage. sierra ii was certified in fiscal 2005 by the nsa. rf communications encryption modules currently meet or exceed the highest security standards established by the u.s. government. sierra ii can be used for tactical radios, wireless local-area-networks, remote sensors, guided munitions and unmanned aerial vehicles. rf communications also offers the citadel cryptographic engine which provides military grade encryption for non-type 1 applications. rf communications also provides unattended ground sensor systems. these include remote, battery-operated products that are designed for surveillance and monitoring of high-value resources such as troop encampments, airfields, base installations, supply routes and depots. the worldwide transformation to modernize tactical communications to provide secure, interoperable and reliable communications is driving strong demand and positive results for this segment. force modernization efforts, including ground force restructuring and expansion, have gained increasing momentum and funding as the dod seeks to deliver enhanced command, control and communications to more and smaller operating units. in fiscal 2006, rf communications responded to requirements for its falcon family of radios from a broad base of u.s. government customers. for example, the u.s. army modularity program is a major force-transformation initiative that includes smaller, more agile and rapidly deployable fighting units. the smaller units are more independent and require greater capabilities for communications up and down the command structure, which has created demand for our falcon radios. similar communications modernization programs are under way by the u.s. marines, the army reserve and the national guard. internationally, rf communications radios are the standard of nato and partnership for peace countries. sales in fiscal 2006 were made to nato members, including the united kingdom, canada, romania, poland, germany, hungary and bulgaria. additionally, sales in fiscal 2006 were made to the following countries: pakistan, iraq, ethiopia, chile, algeria, georgia, uganda, saudi arabia, sweden, australia, tajikistan and yemen. rf communications has a key position on the u.k. ministry of defence bowman tactical radio programme ( bowman ). under the terms of the bowman contract with general dynamics united kingdom limited, with a value to rf communications of approximately $245 million, this segment is providing more 6 table of contents than 10,000 high-frequency radio units over the course of the five-year program. production for bowman began in fiscal 2003. revenue in fiscal 2006 for the rf communications segment increased 51 percent over fiscal 2005 to $809 million from $537 million and was $430 million in fiscal 2004. segment operating income increased 68 percent to $278.9 million in fiscal 2006, compared to $166.5 million in fiscal 2005 and was $118.9 million in fiscal 2004. the rf communications segment contributed 23 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2006, 17 percent in fiscal 2005 and 17 percent in fiscal 2004. in fiscal 2006, approximately 37 percent of the revenue of this segment were derived outside of the united states, compared to 45 percent in fiscal 2005 and 47 percent in fiscal 2004. in fiscal 2006, u.s. government customers, whether directly or through others, accounted for approximately 72 percent of this segment total revenue, compared to 54 percent in fiscal 2005 and 56 percent in fiscal 2004. in general, this segment domestic products are sold and serviced directly to customers through its sales organizations and through established distribution channels. internationally, this segment markets and sells its products and services through regional sales offices and established distribution channels. see item 1. business international business. the backlog of unfilled orders for this segment was $703 million at july 28, 2006, compared to $427 million at july 29, 2005 and $331 million at july 30, 2004. approximately 90 percent of this backlog of unfilled orders is expected to be filled during fiscal 2007, but we can give no assurance of such fulfillment. for a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, see item 1. business principal customers; government contracts, item 3. legal proceedings and item 1a. risk factors. microwave communications microwave communications designs, manufactures and sells a broad range of microwave radios for use in worldwide wireless communications networks. applications include wireless/mobile infrastructure connectivity; secure data networks; public safety transport for state, local and federal government users; and right-of -way connectivity for utilities, pipelines, railroads and industrial companies. in general, wireless networks are constructed using microwave radios and other equipment to connect cell sites, fixed-access facilities, switching systems, land mobile radio systems and other similar systems. for many applications, microwave systems offer a lower-cost, highly reliable alternative to competing transmission technologies such as fiber or wired systems. this segment microwave product line spans frequencies from 2 to 38 ghz and includes the: truepoint tm family of microwave radios. this is our next-generation microwave point-to -point radio platform which provides synchronous digital hierarchy ( sdh ) and plesiochronous digital hierarchy ( pdh ) in a single platform and is designed to meet the current and future needs of network operators, including mobile, private network, government and access service providers. the unique architecture of the core platform reduces both capital expenditures and life cycle costs, while meeting international and north american standards. the software-based architecture enables transition between traditional microwave access applications and higher-capacity transport interconnections. the wide range of capacities, interfaces, modulation schemes, frequency and channel plans, and power levels are made available to meet the requirements of networks around the world. the truepoint product family delivers service from 4 to 180 megabits-per-second capacity at frequencies ranging from 6 to 38 ghz; constellation medium-to -high-capacity family of point-to -point digital radios operating in the 6, 7/8 and 10/11 ghz frequencies, which are designed for network applications and support both pdh and synchronous optical network ( sonet ), the standard for digital transport over optical fiber in north american applications. constellation radios are suited for wireless mobile carriers and private operators, including critical public safety networks; and megastar high-capacity, carrier-class digital point-to -point radios, which operate in the 5, 6, 7/8 and 11 ghz frequencies, and are designed to eliminate test equipment requirements, reduce network installation and operation costs, and conform to pdh, sonet and sdh standards. microwave communications provides turnkey microwave systems and service capabilities, offering complete network and systems engineering support and services, including planning, design and systems integration, site surveys, deployment, management, training and customer service a key competitive discriminator for the microwave communications segment in the microwave radio industry. microwave communications also offers a comprehensive network management system. its netboss integrated communications network management platform supports wireless, wireline and internet service providers. netboss offers fault management, performance management, service activation, billing mediation and 7 table of contents operational support system ( oss ) integration in a modular, off-the -shelf solution designed for rapid deployment. the modularity of netboss enables customers to implement a comprehensive set of capabilities immediately or gradually, as their needs dictate. the newest product offering is netboss em, an element manager. following the sale of our tts business during fiscal 2004, the netboss network operations software product line became part of the microwave communications segment and prior periods have been restated to reflect this change. principal customers for microwave communications products and services include domestic and international wireless/mobile service providers, original equipment manufacturers, as well as private network users such as public safety agencies, utilities, pipelines, railroads and other industrial enterprises. no single customer accounted for more than 15 percent of fiscal 2006 revenue for the microwave communications segment. during fiscal 2006, microwave communications entered into a contract with vmobile nigeria to provide radios for the build-out of its telecom network that spans more than 5,000 kilometers. as part of providing both backbone and access microwave solutions for this complex and expansive network, microwave communications is also providing network architecture and planning. during fiscal 2006, microwave communications entered into a contract to supply radios and products to the commonwealth of kentucky to assist in the conversion of the kentucky early warning system from analog to digital, utilizing truepoint radios that will be used to provide first-responders with critical voice and video services. approximately 57 percent of the revenue of this segment was derived outside of the united states in fiscal 2006, compared to 46 percent in fiscal 2005 and 52 percent in fiscal 2004. in general, this segment north american products and services are sold directly to customers through its sales organizations and through established distribution channels. internationally, this segment markets and sells its products and services through regional sales offices and established distribution channels. see item 1. business international business. revenue in fiscal 2006 for the microwave communications segment increased 9 percent from $320 million in fiscal 2005 to $349 million in fiscal 2006 and was $330 million in fiscal 2004. this segment had an operating loss of $19.6 million in fiscal 2006, compared to operating income of $7.7 million in fiscal 2005 and an operating loss of $12.1 million in fiscal 2004. the microwave communications segment contributed 10 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2006, 11 percent in fiscal 2005 and 13 percent in fiscal 2004. the backlog of unfilled orders for this segment was $164 million at july 28, 2006, compared with $94 million at july 29, 2005 and $81 million at july 30, 2004. substantially all of this backlog is expected to be filled during fiscal 2007, but we can give no assurance of such fulfillment. for a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, see item 3. legal proceedings and item 1a. risk factors. broadcast communications broadcast communications hardware and software solutions support the entire content creation, management, distribution, and delivery process for broadcast, cable, satellite, and other media content providers. this segment serves the global digital and analog markets, providing enterprise software and studio, video distribution and digital media products, network management, and transmission equipment and systems. the current trend and future of broadcast media involves digitizing content and transporting it simultaneously over many different networks to many types of devices. this transition from analog to digital technology enables content owners and service providers to consolidate and automate their operations. as a result, this need to create, manage, and ultimately deliver digital media content is driving an infrastructure upgrade cycle for the media industry. television: broadcast communications develops, manufactures, and supplies digital and analog television transmission equipment for over-the -air broadcasters and for the emerging mobile television market. in addition to high definition picture clarity, digital technology gives broadcasters the opportunity to expand channel and service offerings. in response to the u.s. government-mandated transition from analog to digital transmission, broadcast communications provided the nation first advanced digital television transmitter, as well as the first commercial digital television application and is a leader with respect to the u.s. digital standard known as atsc. innovations have included the development of a line of analog transmitters that can be upgraded for digital operation in the field. additionally, in fiscal 2005, broadcast communications introduced powercd tm , a new family of high-power uhf atsc transmitters designed to deliver maximum in-band rf power per watt of electricity, and broadcast communications continues to develop next-generation transmission equipment to provide broadcasters with a smooth path from analog to digital broadcasting. broadcast communications is also a provider of european-standard digital dvb-t transmission equipment supported by a technology development center in austria that focuses on european-standard dvb-t transmissions systems. broadcast 8 table of contents communications is also expanding efforts to reach the emerging mobile television market under the concept of transmitting real-time television to personal devices such as cell phones, pdas or other mobile devices. mobile video is in its early stage of growth, with only a limited number of content providers. broadcast communications is developing and providing transmission equipment for various mobile video broadcasting trials in australia, china, the netherlands, the u.k. and the u.s. radio: broadcast communications develops, manufactures, and supplies end-to -end products, systems, and services for the radio broadcast market. product offerings include digital and analog transmission equipment, audio and networking consoles, studio products, monitoring and control solutions, and systems that range from single-radio studios to consolidated operations and complete nationwide networks with hundreds of radio sites. broadcast communications is a leader in the transition from analog to digital radio. product offerings address the u.s. digital standard called iboc (in-band/ on-channel), which is referred to in the market as hd radio tm , as well as international digital standards including dab (digital audio broadcasting) and drm (digital radio mondiale). the rollout of hd radio in the u.s. is progressing with approximately 2,500 of 13,500 radio stations committing to implement hd radio over the next several years and approximately 800 stations currently on-air. during fiscal 2005, broadcast communications introduced its second-generation transmission product family called flexstar tm , which provides a bandwidth-efficient bitstream so broadcasters can offer supplemental audio and data capability along with the main program stream. this enables broadcasters to develop new revenue-generating opportunities including multiple programs on the same channel, 5.1 surround sound, on-demand traffic, weather and sports reports, store-and-play capabilities, and real-time navigation. software systems: broadcast communications software systems offering, which was significantly expanded with the fiscal 2005 acquisition of encoda systems holdings, inc. ( encoda ), enables customers to better manage their digital media workflow through a portfolio of software products for programming, scheduling, traffic and billing, as well as for complementary automation and digital asset management solutions. initial modules of the next-generation digital content delivery platform, called h-class, were launched during fiscal 2005. the h-class software system, which began deliveries in fiscal 2006, is an enterprise platform which can intelligently manage delivery of rich digital media across multiple networks, channels, formats, and devices. h-class provides broadcasters and other media, entertainment, and content distribution customers with a means to integrate disparate processes from creation to consumption into a single, modular system. our recent acquisition of osi expands broadcast communications capabilities in enterprise-wide software for managing and scheduling advertising and programming for broadcasters. video distribution and networking solutions: video distribution products and solutions offered by broadcast communications assist the movement of broadcasters to a multi-channel and multi-media environment as such products enable the movement of rich media, audio and data efficiently over a variety of networks. during the second quarter of fiscal 2006, we acquired leitch, a provider of high-performance video systems for the television broadcast industry, including routers and distribution equipment, signal processing, signal management and monitoring, servers and storage area networks, branding software and post-production editing systems. broadcast communications is a leader in the conversion from analog to digital video networking equipment. products include: the platinum tm large router for mixed video and audio signal routing, the iconmaster tm digital master control system and the nexio tm line of video servers. broadcast communications further enhanced its video networking offerings with the acquisition in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 of aastra digital video, a developer of video networking, encoding, decoding and multiplexing technologies used by television broadcasters, telecommunications providers and satellite networks. networking solutions provided by broadcast communications include routing and distribution, signal processing, and network monitoring and management tools for multiple markets. in addition to providing solutions to the traditional broadcast and cable markets, customers also include the u.s. government and public safety organizations for mission-critical, first-response scenarios. for example, broadcast communications, in conjunction with government communications systems, is providing extensive networking solutions for the fti program. rapidly growing demand for content over an increasing number of devices is driving a transition from single, dedicated networks to flexible systems that automatically deliver content over the most appropriate and cost-effective network, transporting the right content to the right person on the right device. revenue for the broadcast communications segment increased 40 percent from $384 million in fiscal 2005 to $538 million in fiscal 2006 and was $287 million in fiscal 2004. segment operating income was $22.8 million in fiscal 2006, compared to $18.1 million in fiscal 2005 and $8.1 million in fiscal 2004. the broadcast communications segment contributed 15 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2006, 12 percent in fiscal 2005 and 11 percent in fiscal 2004. approximately 41 percent of the revenue of this segment were derived outside of 9 table of contents the united states in fiscal 2006, compared to 34 percent in fiscal 2005 and 39 percent in fiscal 2004. principal customers for broadcast communications products and services include domestic and international television and radio broadcast networks and content originators. no single customer accounted for more than 2 percent of fiscal 2006 revenue for the broadcast communications segment. during fiscal 2006, broadcast communications entered into a multi-year agreement with cumulus broadcasting to provide hd radio transmission systems to over 250 cumulus am and fm stations. broadcast communications also supplied hd radio transmission products for clear channel communications and cbs radio. customers for software and networking systems included tribune broadcasting, turner broadcasting, british sky broadcasting ( bskyb ) in the u.k., tv azteca in mexico, norkring in norway, skyperfect in japan, antena 3 in spain, swisscom broadcasting in switzerland, bridgenetworks in australia and kub telekomunikasi in malaysia. in general, this segment domestic products are sold and serviced directly to customers through its sales organizations and through established distribution channels. internationally, this segment markets and sells its products and services through regional sales offices and established distribution channels. see item 1. business international business. the backlog of unfilled orders for this segment was $240 million at july 28, 2006, compared with $210 million at july 29, 2005 and $105 million at july 30, 2004. approximately 67 percent of this backlog is expected to be filled during fiscal 2007, but we can give no assurance of such fulfillment. for a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, see item 3. legal proceedings and item 1a. risk factors. international business revenue in fiscal 2006 from products exported from the united states (including foreign military sales) or manufactured abroad was $746.5 million (21 percent of our total revenue), compared with $559.0 million (19 percent of our total revenue) in fiscal 2005 and $507.5 million (20 percent of our total revenue) in fiscal 2004. our international sales include both direct exports from the united states and sales from foreign subsidiaries. most of the international sales are derived from the microwave communications, rf communications and broadcast communications segments. direct export sales are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars, whereas sales from foreign subsidiaries are generally denominated in the local currency of the subsidiary. exports from the united states, principally to europe, asia, africa and canada, totaled $418.0 million (56 percent of our international revenue) in fiscal 2006, $326.6 million (58 percent of our international revenue) in fiscal 2005 and $308.6 million (61 percent of our international revenue) in fiscal 2004. foreign operations represented 9 percent of revenue in fiscal 2006, 8 percent of revenue in fiscal 2005 and 8 percent of revenue in fiscal 2004. foreign operations represented 24 percent of long-lived assets as of june 30, 2006 and 9 percent of long-lived assets as of july 1, 2005. financial information regarding our domestic and international operations is contained in note 23: business segments in the notes and is incorporated herein by reference. principal international manufacturing facilities are located in canada, china and the united kingdom. international marketing activities are conducted through subsidiaries which operate in canada, europe, central and south america and asia. we have also established international marketing organizations and several regional sales offices. reference is made to exhibit 21 subsidiaries of the registrant for further information regarding our foreign subsidiaries. we utilize indirect sales channels, including dealers, distributors and sales representatives, in the marketing and sale of some lines of products and equipment, both domestically and internationally. these independent representatives may buy for resale or, in some cases, solicit orders from commercial or governmental customers for direct sales by us. prices to the ultimate customer in many instances may be recommended or established by the independent representative and may be above or below our list prices. these independent representatives generally receive a discount from our list prices and may mark up those prices in setting the final sales prices paid by the customer. during fiscal 2006, revenue from indirect sales channels represented 6 percent of our total revenue and 23 percent of our international revenue, compared to revenue from indirect sales channels in fiscal 2005 representing 6 percent of our total revenue and 32 percent of our international revenue. fiscal 2006 revenue came from a large number of foreign countries, of which no single country accounted for 4 percent or more of our total revenue. some of our exports are paid for by letters of credit, with the balance carried either on an open account or installment note basis. advance payments, progress payments or other similar payments received prior to, or upon shipment often cover most of the related costs incurred. significant foreign government contracts generally require us to provide performance guarantees. in order to stay 10 table of contents competitive in international markets, we also enter into recourse and vendor financing to facilitate sales to certain customers. the particular economic, social and political conditions for business conducted outside the u.s. differ from those encountered by domestic businesses. our management believes that the overall business risk for the international business as a whole is somewhat greater than that faced by our domestic operations as a whole. a description of the types of risks to which we are subject in international business is contained in item 1a. risk factors. nevertheless, in the opinion of our management, these risks are offset by the diversification of the international business and the protection provided by letters of credit and advance payments. competition we operate in highly competitive markets that are sensitive to technological advances. although successful product and systems development is not necessarily dependent on substantial financial resources, some of our competitors in each of our businesses are larger than we are and can maintain higher levels of expenditures for research and development. in each of our businesses we concentrate on the market opportunities that our management believes are compatible with our resources, overall technological capabilities and objectives. principal competitive factors in these businesses are cost-effectiveness, product quality and reliability, technological capabilities, service, ability to meet delivery schedules and the effectiveness of dealers in international areas. in the government communications systems segment principal competitors include: boeing, computer sciences, general dynamics, itt industries, l-3 communications, lockheed martin, northrop grumman, raytheon and saic. consolidation among u.s. defense and aerospace companies has resulted in a reduction in the number of principal prime contractors. as a result of this consolidation, we frequently partner or are involved in subcontracting and teaming relationships with companies that are, from time to time, competitors on other programs. in the rf communications segment principal competitors include: general dynamics, itt industries, raytheon, rohde schwarz, tadiran and thales. in the microwave communications segment principal competitors include: alcatel, ericsson, fujitsu, nec, nokia, siemens and stratex networks, as well as other smaller companies. several of our competitors are original equipment manufacturers or systems integrators through which we sometimes distribute and sell products and services to end-users. we believe that our network and systems engineering support and service are key competitive strengths for this segment. in the broadcast communications segment principal competitors include: broadcast electronics, nec, omnibus, rohde schwarz, sony, and thomson/ grass valley, as well as other smaller companies and divisions of large companies. we believe that our broad product offering and total content delivery solutions are key competitive strengths for this segment. principal customers; government contracts sales to the u.s. government, which is our only customer accounting for 3 percent or more of our total revenue, were 66 percent of our total revenue in each of fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004. additional information regarding customers for each of our segments is provided under item 1. business description of business by segment. our u.s. government sales are predominantly derived from contracts with agencies of, and prime contractors to, the u.s. government. u.s. government contracts are terminable at the convenience of the u.s. government, as well as for default based on performance. companies engaged in supplying goods and services to the u.s. government are dependent on congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of funds and may be affected by changes in u.s. government policies resulting from various military, political and international developments. long-term government contracts and related orders are subject to cancellation if appropriations for subsequent performance periods become unavailable. under contracts terminable at the convenience of the u.s. government, a contractor is entitled to receive payments for its allowable costs and, in general, the proportionate share of fees or earnings for the work done. contracts that are terminable for default generally provide that the u.s. government pays only for the work it has accepted and may require the contractor to pay for the incremental cost of reprocurement and may hold the contractor liable for damages. in many cases, there is also uncertainty relating to the complexity of designs, necessity for design improvements and difficulty in forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work. under many u.s. government contracts, we are required to maintain facility and personnel 11 table of contents security clearances complying with dod and other federal agency requirements. for further discussion of risks relating to u.s. government contracts, see item 3. legal proceedings and item 1a. risk factors. funded and unfunded backlog our total company-wide funded and unfunded backlog was approximately $5,641 million at july 28, 2006, $5,160 million at july 29, 2005 and $4,132 million at july 30, 2004. the funded portion of this backlog was approximately $1,482 million at july 28, 2006, $1,141 million at july 29, 2005 and $962 million at july 30, 2004. the determination of backlog involves substantial estimating, particularly with respect to customer requirements contracts and development and production contracts of a cost-reimbursement or incentive nature. we define funded backlog as unfilled firm orders for which funding has been authorized. unfunded backlog is primarily unfilled firm and expected follow-on orders that have not yet met our established funding criteria. our established funding criteria require both authorization by the customer as well as our management determination that there is little or no risk to the authorized funding being rescinded. in fiscal 2007, we expect to fill approximately 88 percent of our total funded backlog as of july 28, 2006. however, there can be no assurance that our funded backlog will become revenue in any particular period, if at all. backlog is subject to delivery delays and program cancellations, which are beyond our control. additional information with regard to the backlog of each of our segments is provided under item 1. business description of business by segment and item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. research, development and engineering research, development and engineering expenditures totaled approximately $814 million in fiscal 2006, $870 million in fiscal 2005 and $841 million in fiscal 2004. company-sponsored research and product development costs, which included research and development for commercial products and independent research and development related to government products and services, were approximately $188 million in fiscal 2006, $137 million in fiscal 2005 and $111 million in fiscal 2004. a portion of our independent research and development costs are allocated among contracts and programs in process under u.s. government contractual arrangements. company-sponsored research and product development costs not otherwise allocable are charged to expense when incurred. the portion of total research, development and engineering expenditures not company-sponsored was funded by u.s. government and commercial customers and is included in our revenue. company-funded research is directed to the development of new products and to building technological capability in selected communications and electronic systems markets. u.s. government-funded research helps strengthen and broaden our technical capabilities. almost all of our segments maintain their own engineering and new product development departments, with scientific assistance provided by advanced-technology departments. as of june 30, 2006, we employed approximately 6,200 engineers and scientists and are continuing efforts to make the technologies developed in any of our business segments available for all other business segments. patents and other intellectual property we consider our patents and other intellectual property rights, in the aggregate, to constitute an important asset. we own a large and valuable portfolio of patents, trade secrets, know-how, confidential information, trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property. we also license intellectual property to and from third parties. as of june 30, 2006, we held approximately 892 u.s. patents and 470 foreign patents, and had approximately 396 u.s. patent applications pending and 937 foreign patent applications pending. however, we do not consider our business or any business segment to be materially dependent upon any single patent, license or other intellectual property right, or any group of related patents, licenses or other intellectual property rights. we are engaged in a proactive patent licensing program and have entered into a number of licenses and cross-license agreements, some of which generate royalty income. although existing license agreements have generated income in past years and may do so in the future, there can be no assurances we will enter into additional income-producing license agreements. from time to time we engage in litigation to protect our patents and other intellectual property. any of our patents, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights and other proprietary rights could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or may not provide competitive advantages. with regard to patents relating to our government communications systems segment, the u.s. government often has an irrevocable, non-exclusive, royalty-free license, pursuant to which the u.s. government may use or authorize others to use the inventions covered by such patents. pursuant to similar arrangements, the u.s. government may consent to our use of inventions covered by patents owned by other persons. numerous trademarks used on or in connection with our products are also considered to be a valuable asset. 12 table of contents environmental and other regulations our facilities and operations, in common with those of industry in general, are subject to numerous domestic and international laws and regulations designed to protect the environment, particularly with regard to wastes and emissions. we believe that we have complied with these requirements and that such compliance has not had a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. based upon currently available information, we do not expect expenditures to protect the environment and to comply with current environmental laws and regulations over the next several years to have a material impact on our competitive or financial position, but we can give no assurance that such expenditures will not exceed current expectations. if future laws and regulations contain more stringent requirements than presently anticipated, actual expenditures may be higher than our present estimates of those expenditures. we have installed waste treatment facilities and pollution control equipment to satisfy legal requirements and to achieve our waste minimization and prevention goals. we did not spend material amounts on environmental capital projects in fiscal 2006, 2005 or 2004. a portion of our environmental expenditures relates to discontinued operations for which we have retained certain environmental liabilities. we currently expect that amounts to be spent for environmental-related capital projects will not be material in fiscal 2007. these amounts may increase in future years. additional information regarding environmental and regulatory matters is set forth in item 3. legal proceedings and in note 1: significant accounting policies in the notes. electronic products are subject to governmental environmental regulation in a number of jurisdictions. equipment produced by our broadcast communications and microwave communications segments, in particular, are subject to domestic and international requirements requiring end-of -life management and/or restricting materials in products delivered to customers. such requirements are not applicable to most equipment produced by our government communications systems and rf communications segments. we believe that we have substantially complied with such rules and regulations, where applicable, with respect to our existing products sold into such jurisdictions. we intend to comply with such rules and regulations with respect to our future products. radio communications are also subject to governmental regulation. equipment produced by our broadcast communications and microwave communications segments, in particular, is subject to domestic and international requirements to avoid interference among users of radio and television frequencies and to permit interconnection of telecommunications equipment. we believe that we have substantially complied with such rules and regulations with respect to our existing products, and we intend to comply with such rules and regulations with respect to our future products. reallocation of the frequency spectrum also could impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. raw materials and supplies because of the diversity of our products and services, as well as the wide geographic dispersion of our facilities, we use numerous sources for the wide array of raw materials (such as electronic components, printed circuit boards, metals and plastics) needed for our operations and for our products. we are dependent upon suppliers and subcontractors for a large number of components and subsystems and the ability of our suppliers and subcontractors to adhere to customer or regulatory materials restrictions and to meet performance and quality specifications and delivery schedules. in some instances, we are dependent upon one or a few sources, either because of the specialized nature of a particular item or because of local content preference requirements pursuant to which we operate on a given project. while we have been affected by financial and performance issues of some of our suppliers and subcontractors, we have not been materially adversely affected by the inability to obtain raw materials or products. seasonality no material portion of our business is considered to be seasonal. various factors can affect the distribution of our revenue between accounting periods, including the timing of u.s. government awards, the availability of funding, product deliveries and customer acceptance. employees as of june 30, 2006, we employed approximately 13,900 people, compared with approximately 12,600 employees at the end of fiscal 2005. approximately 12,500 of our employees are located in the united states. a significant number of employees in our government communications systems segment possess a security clearance. we also utilize a number of independent contractors. none of our employees in the united states is represented by a labor union. in certain international subsidiaries, our employees are represented by workers councils or statutory labor unions. in general, we believe that our relations with our employees are good. 13 table of contents website access to harris reports; available information general. we maintain an internet website at http://www.harris.com . our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to such reports, filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the securities and exchange commission ( sec ). we will also provide the reports in electronic or paper form free of charge upon request. we also make available free of charge on our website our annual report to shareholders and proxy statement. our website and the information posted thereon are not incorporated into this annual report on form 10-k or any other report that we file with or furnish to the sec. all reports we file with or furnish to the sec are also available free of charge via edgar through the sec website at http://www.sec.gov . the public may read and copy any materials filed by us with the sec at the sec public reference room, 100 f. street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. additional information relating to our businesses, including our operating segments, is set forth in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. corporate governance principles and committee charters. we previously adopted corporate governance principles, which are available on the corporate governance section of our website at www.harris.com/harris/cg/ . in addition, the charters of each of the committees of our board, including the audit committee, corporate governance committee and management development and compensation committee, are also available on the corporate governance section of our website. a copy of the charters is also available free of charge upon written request to our corporate secretary at harris corporation, 1025 west nasa boulevard, melbourne, florida 32919. certifications. we have filed with the sec the certifications required by section 302 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 as exhibits to this annual report on form 10-k. in addition, an annual ceo certification was submitted by our chief executive officer to the new york stock exchange in 2005 in accordance with the nyse listing standards, which included a certification that he was not aware of any violation by harris of the nyse corporate governance listing standards. item 1a. risk factors. we have described many of the trends and other factors that could impact our business and future results in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. in addition, our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, those set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or our anticipated future results. we participate in markets that are often subject to uncertain economic conditions, which makes it difficult to estimate growth in our markets and, as a result, future income and expenditures. we participate in markets that are subject to uncertain economic conditions. as a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth in some of the markets in which we participate. because all components of our budgeting and forecasting are dependent upon estimates of growth in the markets we serve, the uncertainty renders estimates of future income and expenditures even more difficult than usual. as a result, we may make significant investments and expenditures but never realize the anticipated benefits, which could adversely affect our results of operations. the future direction of the overall domestic and global economies also will have a significant impact on our overall performance. we depend on the u.s. government for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of this relationship or a shift in u.s. government funding could have adverse consequences on our future business. we are highly dependent on sales to the u.s. government. approximately 66 percent of our net revenue in each of fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004 was derived from sales to the u.s. government. therefore, any significant disruption or deterioration of our relationship with the u.s. government could significantly reduce our revenue. our u.s. government programs must compete with programs managed by other government contractors for a limited number of programs and for uncertain levels of funding. our competitors continuously engage in efforts to expand their business relationships with the u.s. government and will continue these efforts in the future. the u.s. government may choose to use other contractors for its limited number of programs. in addition, the funding of defense programs also competes with non-defense spending of the u.s. government. budget decisions made by the u.s. government are outside of our control and have long-term consequences for our 14 table of contents business. a shift in u.s. government spending to other programs in which we are not involved, or a reduction in u.s. government spending generally, could have material adverse consequences for our business. we depend significantly on our u.s. government contracts, which often are only partially funded, subject to immediate termination, and heavily regulated and audited. the termination or failure to fund one or more of these contracts could have an adverse impact on our business. over its lifetime, a u.s. government program may be implemented by the award of many different individual contracts and subcontracts. the funding of u.s. government programs is subject to congressional appropriations. although multi-year contracts may be planned or authorized in connection with major procurements, congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may continue for several years. consequently, programs often receive only partial funding initially, and additional funds are committed only as congress makes further appropriations. the termination of funding for a u.s. government program would result in a loss of anticipated future revenue attributable to that program, which could have an adverse impact on our operations. in addition, the termination of a program or the failure to commit additional funds to a program that already has been started could result in lost revenue and increase our overall costs of doing business. generally, u.s. government contracts are subject to oversight audits by u.s. government representatives. in addition, the contracts generally contain provisions permitting termination, in whole or in part, without prior notice at the u.s. government convenience upon the payment only for work done and commitments made at the time of termination. we can give no assurance that one or more of our u.s. government contracts will not be terminated under these circumstances. also, we can give no assurance that we would be able to procure new contracts to offset the revenue or backlog lost as a result of any termination of our u.s. government contracts. because a significant portion of our revenue is dependent on our performance and payment under our u.s. government contracts, the loss of one or more large contracts could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. our government business also is subject to specific procurement regulations and a variety of socioeconomic and other requirements. these requirements, although customary in u.s. government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. these costs might increase in the future, thereby reducing our margins, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could lead to suspension or debarment from u.s. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. among the causes for debarment are violations of various statutes, including those related to procurement integrity, export control, u.s. government security regulations, employment practices, protection of the environment, accuracy of records and the recording of costs and foreign corruption. the termination of a u.s. government contract or relationship as a result of any of these acts would have an adverse impact on our operations and could have an adverse effect on our reputation and ability to procure other u.s. government contracts in the future. we enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses in the event of cost overruns. we have a number of firm, fixed-price contracts. during fiscal 2006 and 2005, approximately 38 percent and 34 percent, respectively, of our total government communications systems and rf communications segments revenue was from fixed-price contracts. these contracts allow us to benefit from cost savings, but they carry the burden of potential cost overruns since we assume all of the cost risk. if our initial estimates are incorrect, we can lose money on these contracts. u.s. government contracts can expose us to potentially large losses because the u.s. government can compel us to complete a project or, in certain circumstances, pay the entire cost of its replacement by another provider regardless of the size or foreseeability of any cost overruns that occur over the life of the contract. because many of these projects involve new technologies and applications and can last for years, unforeseen events, such as technological difficulties, fluctuations in the price of raw materials, problems with other contractors and cost overruns, can result in the contractual price becoming less favorable or even unprofitable to us over time. furthermore, if we do not meet project deadlines or specifications, we may need to renegotiate contracts on less favorable terms, be forced to pay penalties or liquidated damages or suffer major losses if the customer exercises its right to terminate. in addition, some of our contracts have provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights, and if we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts we may not realize their full benefits. our results of operations are dependent on our ability to maximize our earnings from our contracts. lower earnings caused by cost overruns and cost controls would have an adverse impact on our financial results. 15 table of contents we derive a substantial portion of our revenue from international operations and are subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries, including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. we are dependent on sales to customers outside the united states. in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, revenue for products exported from the u.s. or manufactured abroad was 21 percent, 19 percent and 20 percent, respectively, of our total revenue. approximately 44 percent of our international business in fiscal 2006 was transacted in local currency environments. losses resulting from currency rate fluctuations can adversely affect our results. we expect that international revenue will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue. also, a significant portion of our international revenue is in less-developed countries. we are subject to risks of doing business internationally, including: currency exchange controls, fluctuations of currency and currency revaluations; the laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments relating to investments and operations, as well as u.s. laws affecting the activities of u.s. companies abroad; changes in regulatory requirements, including imposition of tariffs or embargoes, export controls and other trade restrictions; uncertainties and restrictions concerning the availability of funding, credit or guarantees; the complexity and necessity of using foreign dealers, distributors, sales representatives and consultants; the difficulty of managing an organization doing business in many countries; import and export licensing requirements and regulations, as well as unforeseen changes in export regulations; uncertainties as to local laws and enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights and occasional requirements for onerous contract clauses; and rapid changes in government, economic and political policies, political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of international boycotts or u.s. anti-boycott legislation. while these factors and the impacts of these factors are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations in the future. our future success will depend on our ability to develop new products that achieve market acceptance. both our commercial and defense businesses are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry standards. accordingly, our future performance depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: identify emerging technological trends in our target markets; develop and maintain competitive products; enhance our products by adding innovative hardware, software or other features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors; and manufacture and bring cost-effective products to market quickly. we believe that, in order to remain competitive in the future, we will need to continue to develop new products, which will require the investment of significant financial resources in new product development. the need to make these expenditures could divert our attention and resources from other projects, and we cannot be sure that these expenditures ultimately will lead to the timely development of new products. due to the design complexity of some of our products, we may experience delays in completing development and introducing new products in the future. any delays could result in increased costs of development or redirect resources from other projects. in addition, we cannot provide assurances that the markets for our products will develop as we currently anticipate. the failure of our products to gain market acceptance could significantly reduce our revenue and harm our business. furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing products that gain market acceptance in advance of our products or that our competitors will not develop new products that cause our existing products to become obsolete. if we fail in our new product development efforts or our products fail to achieve market acceptance more rapidly than those of our competitors, our revenue will decline and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. we cannot predict the consequences of future geo-political events, but they may affect adversely the markets in which we operate, our ability to insure against risks, our operations or our profitability. the terrorist attacks in the united states on september 11, 2001, the subsequent u.s.-led military response, current conflicts in the middle east and the potential for future terrorist activities and other recent geo-political events have created economic and political uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on our business and the prices of our securities. these matters have caused uncertainty in the world financial and insurance markets and may increase significantly the political, economic and social instability in the 16 table of contents geographic areas in which we operate. these matters also have caused the premiums charged for our insurance coverages to increase and may cause some coverages to be unavailable altogether. while our government businesses have benefited from homeland defense initiatives and the war on terror, these developments may affect adversely our business and profitability and the prices of our securities in ways that we cannot predict at this time. we have made, and may continue to make, strategic acquisitions that involve significant risks and uncertainties. we have made, and we may continue to make, strategic acquisitions that involve significant risks and uncertainties. these risks and uncertainties include: difficulty in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and cost-effective manner and the risk that we encounter significant unanticipated costs or other problems associated with integration; challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits expected from acquisitions; risk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the technologies acquired do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; risk that we assume significant liabilities that exceed the limitations of any applicable indemnification provisions or the financial resources of any indemnifying parties; potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses; and risk of diverting the attention of senior management from our existing operations. the inability of our subcontractors to perform, or our key suppliers to timely deliver our components or products, could cause our products to be produced in an untimely or unsatisfactory manner. on many of our contracts, we engage subcontractors. in addition, there are certain parts or components which we source from other manufacturers or vendors. some of our suppliers, from time to time, experience financial and operational difficulties, which may impact their ability to supply the materials, components and subsystems that we require. any inability to develop alternative sources of supply on a cost-effective basis could materially impair our ability to manufacture and deliver our products to customers in a timely manner. we can give no assurances that we will be free from material supply problems or component or subsystems problems in the future. also, our subcontractors and other suppliers may not be able to maintain the quality of the materials, components and subsystems they supply, which might result in greater product returns and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. third parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future that we are infringing upon their intellectual property rights, and third parties may infringe upon our intellectual property rights. many of the markets we serve are characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights, which often has resulted in protracted and expensive litigation. third parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing or to have infringed those intellectual property rights. claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. moreover, we may not be able to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us, or at all. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain of our products. our success depends in large part on our proprietary technology. we rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, know-how, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. if we fail to successfully protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer. our pending patent and trademark registration applications may not be allowed, or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of these patents or trademark registrations. in addition, our patents may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and police our intellectual property rights. we may not be able to detect infringement and our competitive position may be harmed before we do so. in addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. the outcome of litigation or arbitration in which we are involved is unpredictable and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse affect on our financial position and results of operations. we are defendants in a number of litigation matters and are involved in a number of arbitrations. these actions may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. no assurances can be given that the results of these or new matters will be favorable to us. an adverse resolution of lawsuits or arbitrations could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition. 17 table of contents we are subject to customer credit risk. we sometimes provide medium-term and long-term customer financing. customer financing arrangements may include all or a portion of the purchase price for our products and services, as well as working capital. we also may assist customers in obtaining financing from banks and other sources on a recourse or non-recourse basis. while we generally have been able to place a portion of our customer financings with third-party lenders, or to otherwise insure a portion of this risk, a portion of these financings is provided directly by us. there can be higher risks associated with some of these financings, particularly when provided to start-up operations such as local network providers, to customers in developing countries or to customers in specific financing-intensive areas of the telecommunications industry. if customers fail to meet their obligations, losses could be incurred and such losses could have an adverse effect on us. our losses could be much greater if it becomes more difficult to place or insure against these risks with third parties. the fair values of our portfolio of passive investments are subject to significant price volatility or erosion. we have investments in securities of privately-held companies, many of which still can be considered in the start-up or developmental stages. these investments are illiquid and are inherently risky as the markets for the technologies or products they have under development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. we could lose our entire investment in these companies. developing new technologies entails significant risks and uncertainties. we are exposed to liabilities that are unique to the products and services we provide. a significant portion of our business relates to designing, developing and manufacturing advanced defense and technology systems and products. new technologies associated with these systems and products may be untested or unproven. components of certain of the defense systems and products we develop are inherently dangerous. failures of satellites, missile systems, air-traffic control systems, homeland security applications and aircraft have the potential to cause loss of life and extensive property damage. in most circumstances, we may receive indemnification from the u.s. government. while we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, and we may be forced to bear substantial costs from an accident or incident. it also is not possible to obtain insurance to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. substantial claims resulting from an incident in excess of u.s. government indemnity and our insurance coverage could harm our financial condition and operating results. moreover, any accident or incident for which we are liable, even if fully insured, could negatively affect our reputation among our customers and the public, thereby making it more difficult for us to compete effectively, and could significantly impact the cost and availability of adequate insurance in the future. we have significant operations in florida that could be impacted in the event of a hurricane and operations in california that could be impacted in the event of an earthquake. our corporate headquarters and significant operations of our government communications systems segment are located in florida. in addition, our broadcast communications and microwave communications segments have locations near major earthquake fault lines in california. in the event of a major hurricane, earthquake or other natural disaster we could experience business interruptions, destruction of facilities and/or loss of life, all of which could materially adversely affect our business. changes in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. our future effective tax rates may be adversely affected by a number of factors including: the jurisdiction in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation expense; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws; and the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact net income for future periods. 18 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 52 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of doing business, we are exposed to the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rates and changes in interest rates. we employ established policies and procedures governing the use of financial instruments to manage our exposure to such risks. for a discussion of such policies and procedures and the related risks, see financial risk management in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, which is incorporated by reference into this item 7a.risk factors 17 risk factors below. forward-looking statements are made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended, and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, and we undertake no obligation, other than imposed by law, to update forward-looking statements to reflect further developments or information obtained after the date of filing of this annual report on form 10-k or, in the case of any document incorporated by reference, the date of that document, and disclaim any obligation to do so. part i item 1. business. harris harris corporation, together with its subsidiaries, is an international communications and information technology company serving government and commercial markets in more than 150 countries. we are focused on developing best-in-class assured communications tm products, systems and services for global markets, including government communications, rf communications, broadcast communications and wireless transmission network solutions. harris was incorporated in delaware in 1926 as the successor to three companies founded in the 1890s. our principal executive offices are located at 1025 west nasa boulevard, melbourne, florida 32919, and our telephone number is (321) 727-9100. our common stock is listed on the new york stock exchange under the symbol hrs. on august 17, 2007, we employed approximately 16,000 people. unless the context otherwise requires, the terms we, our, us, company, and harris as used in this annual report on form 10-k refer to harris corporation and its subsidiaries. general we structure our operations primarily around the markets we serve and for the fiscal year ended june 29, 2007, operated in the following four business segments: (1) government communications systems, (2) rf communications, (3) broadcast communications and (4) harris stratex networks, inc. ( harris stratex networks ) (formerly microwave communications). as described in greater detail below under item 1. business recent acquisitions and business combinations, in the third quarter of fiscal 2007, we combined our former microwave communications division with stratex networks, inc. ( stratex ), a publicly-traded provider of high-speed wireless transmission systems, to form a new company named harris stratex networks, inc. we own approximately 57 percent of harris stratex networks outstanding stock and the minority stockholders own approximately 43 percent of harris stratex networks outstanding stock. following that combination, our business segment formerly referred to as microwave communications is now referred to as harris stratex networks. the results of the harris stratex networks segment reflect the results of the combined business for periods following the combination. unless otherwise noted, disclosures in this annual report on form 10-k relate only to our continuing operations. financial information with respect to all of our other activities, including corporate costs not allocated to the operating segments or discontinued operations, is reported as part of headquarters expense or non-operating income (loss). each of our business segments, which we also refer to as divisions, has been organized on the basis of specific communications markets. each business segment has its own marketing, engineering, manufacturing and product service and maintenance organization. we produce most of the products we sell. 1 table of contents on may 21, 2007, we announced that effective for fiscal 2008 (which began june 30, 2007), our segment reporting would be adjusted to reflect our new organizational structure. for fiscal 2008, our department of defense programs area, part of our government communications systems segment for fiscal 2007, will be combined with our rf communications business and reported as our defense communications and electronics segment. as a result, our segment reporting for fiscal 2008 will consist of the following four business segments: (1) government communications systems, (2) defense communications and electronics, (3) broadcast communications, and (4) harris stratex networks. our broadcast communications and harris stratex networks segments will not change as a result of the adjustments to our organizational structure. these adjustments to our segment reporting take effect in fiscal 2008 and therefore do not affect the historical results, discussion or presentation of our business segments as set forth in this annual report on form 10-k. we will begin to report our financial results consistent with this new segment reporting structure beginning with the first quarter of fiscal 2008. our total revenue in fiscal 2007 was approximately $4.2 billion compared to approximately $3.5 billion in fiscal 2006. total revenue in the united states increased approximately 20 percent from fiscal 2006 while international revenue, amounting to approximately 23 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2007, increased approximately 29 percent from fiscal 2006. our net income for fiscal 2007 was $480.4 million compared to $237.9 million in fiscal 2006. recent acquisitions and business combinations combination of our former microwave communications division with stratex networks, inc. on january 26, 2007, we completed the combination of our former microwave communications division with stratex, a publicly-traded provider of high-speed wireless transmission systems, to form a new company named harris stratex networks, inc. the combination creates a global communications solutions company offering end-to-end wireless transmission solutions for mobile and fixed-wireless service providers and private networks. as part of the combination transaction, harris stratex networks wholly-owned subsidiary, stratex merger corp., merged with and into stratex, with stratex as the surviving corporation. pursuant to that merger, each share of stratex common stock was converted into one-fourth of a share of harris stratex networks class a common stock. as a result, 24,782,153 shares of harris stratex networks class a common stock were issued to the former holders of stratex common stock, and stratex became a wholly-owned subsidiary of harris stratex networks. as part of the transaction, stratex was renamed harris stratex networks operating corporation. also as part of the combination transaction, concurrently with the merger of stratex merger corp. and stratex, we contributed to harris stratex networks the assets of our microwave communications division, including $32.1 million in cash, and in exchange harris stratex networks assumed substantially all of the liabilities related to our microwave communications division and issued 32,913,377 shares of harris stratex networks class b common stock to us. we own approximately 57 percent of harris stratex networks outstanding stock and the minority stockholders own approximately 43 percent of harris stratex networks outstanding stock. harris stratex networks is a publicly-traded company listed on the nasdaq global market under the symbol hstx. the stratex combination was accounted for as a purchase business combination with harris as the purchaser for accounting purposes, and the purchase price was $493.0 million. the combination also resulted in a gain to us of approximately $163.4 million ($143.1 million after-tax), which relates to the deemed sale for accounting purposes of 43 percent of the assets and liabilities of our microwave communications division to the minority stockholders of harris stratex networks. the combined business is our harris stratex networks segment. acquisition of multimax incorporated. on june 15, 2007, we acquired multimax incorporated ( multimax ), a provider of information technology and communications services and solutions supporting the department of defense ( dod ), federal civilian agencies, and state and local governments. the purchase price for multimax was $402 million, subject to possible post-closing upward or downward adjustment. we operate the multimax business within our government communications systems segment as part of the information technology services programs area. the acquisition has significantly expanded our information technology services business, providing greater scale, a broader customer base and new growth opportunities through key positions on several government-wide acquisition contracts ( gwacs ). subsequent event conversion of convertible debentures on july 12, 2007, we notified the bank of new york, as trustee, that we would redeem all of our outstanding 3.5% convertible debentures due 2022 in accordance with the terms of the indenture dated as of august 26, 2002 between harris and the trustee. the debentures would have been redeemed for cash on august 20, 2007, at a redemption price of 100 percent of the principal amount of the debentures, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but not including, the redemption date. however, prior to the date set for redemption, all of the debentures were converted by the holders into shares of our common stock at a conversion rate of 44.2404 shares of common stock 2 table of contents for each $1,000 principal amount of debentures, with the exception of debentures in the principal amount of $3,000. this resulted in the issuance by us of 6,594,146 shares of common stock during the first quarter of fiscal 2008 in respect of the debentures converted. on august 20, 2007, we redeemed the remaining debentures in the principal amount of $3,000. accordingly, no debentures remain outstanding as of august 20, 2007. financial information about our business segments financial information with respect to our business segments, including revenue, operating income or loss and total assets, is contained in note 23: business segments in the notes to consolidated financial statements (the notes ) and is incorporated herein by reference. financial information with respect to our operations outside the united states is also contained in note 23: business segments in the notes and is incorporated herein by reference. description of business by segment for the fiscal year ended june 29, 2007 government communications systems government communications systems conducts advanced research studies; designs, develops and supports state-of-the-art communications and information networks and equipment; plays a key role in developing intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance solutions; designs and supports information systems for image and other data collection, processing, interpretation, storage and retrieval; and offers engineering, operations and support services. in fiscal 2007, this segment served a diversified customer base within the u.s. government, including the dod, federal aviation administration ( faa ), national reconnaissance office ( nro ), national geospatial-intelligence agency ( nga ), census bureau, department of state, national security agency ( nsa ), national oceanic and atmospheric administration ( noaa ), defense information systems agency ( disa ), department of homeland security ( dhs ) and other federal and state government agencies. government communications systems also provides services, systems and products for other aerospace and defense companies, including lockheed martin corporation, the boeing company, northrop grumman corporation and space systems/loral. government communications systems also provides technology support for our commercial businesses. in fiscal 2007, the government communications systems segment served four strategic program areas: department of defense programs: government communications systems is a major supplier of spaceborne, airborne and terrestrial communications and information processing systems. government communications systems provides military satellite communications, high-speed data links and data networks, avionics, mobile ad hoc networked communications, large deployable satellite antenna systems, and flat-panel, phased-array and single-mission antennas. government communications systems is a supplier of protected and wideband satellite communications terminals for the dod, supplying the u.s. army, navy, air force and marine corps. government communications systems is providing high-speed networking and satellite communications, including processors, encryptors and terminals, to assist the dod ongoing transformation of military communications. the dod global information grid will provide forces with access to information when and where they need it via secure, interoperable and mobile communications networks. a key element of this information grid is the u.s. army warfighter information network tactical ( win-t ), for which government communications systems is providing secure, high-speed, wireless local area networking and high-capacity mobile ad hoc networking capabilities for win-t wireless transmission system. government communications systems is developing next-generation communication electronics in support of the dod transformational communications satellite program. government communications systems is developing network-centric communications system architectures and technologies that will link sensors, platforms, weapons and soldiers. it is also developing open-architecture, directional, mobile ad hoc networking capabilities. during fiscal 2007, government communications systems was awarded significant contracts, including: a three-year, $66 million contract by the u.s. navy for pre-production and test of the ku-band common data link ( cdl ) hawklink high-speed digital data link system for the mh-60r light airborne multi-purpose system ( lamps ) helicopter; a four-year, $33.5 million follow-on contract from viasat, inc. for additional hardware (including enhanced voice card, power supply assemblies, processor modules and the terminal chassis) for integration into the multifunctional information distribution system ( mids ) low volume terminals ( lvt ) that provide u.s. military forces with secure, jam-resistant, digital tactical communications, and for comprehensive environmental testing of the completed terminal assemblies, which follow-on award brings the overall value of the contract to us to $140 million; a 12-month contract by the u.s. navy to provide a multiband shipboard satellite communications terminal ( mssct ) for the lockheed martin littoral combat ship,which is the second mssct award to harris for the littoral combat ship program (harris is providing satellite communications terminal systems for both lockheed martin and general dynamics, which are competing for the ultimate production award); a nine-month, $12.5 million contract by boeing integrated defense systems to provide the distributed targeting 3 table of contents processor ( dtp ) and the companion mass storage unit ( msu ) for the u.s. navy f/a-18e/f super hornet aircraft, which avionics improve network-centric operations capability and shorten the time from target sensing to shooting and enhance precision targeting by applying advanced geo-referencing capabilities. also during fiscal 2007, government communications systems released for purchase, together with bae systems, their co-developed highband networking radio ( hnr ) that provides true ad hoc, mobile capabilities to network-centric military communications by providing fully mobile, high-bandwidth, long-range, line-of-sight connectivity between users of widely dispersed local area networks ( lans ). government communications systems also delivered the first 12 of 39 large aperture multiband deployable antenna ( lamda ) rugged, highly-mobile satellite communications terminals for the u.s. marine corps and u.s. air force as part of a $42 million contract awarded to harris in 2004 by the u.s. army that also includes 25 lightweight high gain x-band antenna ( lhgxa ) terminals. ongoing previously awarded programs include: a contract to upgrade strategic satellite communications terminals for the u.s. army; a contract to upgrade lightweight multiband satellite communications terminals for the u.s. marine corps; a contract with the u.s. air force for anti-jam global positioning system ( gps ) technology for munitions; a contract to provide large, unfurlable spaceborne antennas for the mobile user objective system, a narrowband tactical satellite communications system that will enhance the u.s. navy existing tactical satellite communications system; a contract with the u.s. navy for mssct systems (the first mssct award); contracts for portions of the communications systems for the ground-based midcourse defense ( gmd ) program (formerly known as national missile defense); follow-on awards for the u.s. army multiple launch rocket system program, including improved fire control systems ( ifcs ); a contract for mids terminals for aircraft such as the u.s. navy f/a-18 and the u.s. air force f-16, as well as ground-based applications; and contracts for the f-22a raptor, f/a-18e/f super hornet and f-35 joint strike fighter aircraft platforms to provide high-performance, advanced avionics such as high-speed fiber optic networking and switching, intra-flight data links, image processing, digital map software and other electronic components. as noted above under item 1. business general, the department of defense programs area will be reported as part of our new defense communications and electronics segment beginning with the first quarter of fiscal 2008. national intelligence programs: government communications systems is a provider of communications equipment and systems and image and information processing solutions to national intelligence and security agencies and customers. government communications systems provides comprehensive solutions for intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance, addressing each of the six steps of the intelligence cycle: tasking, collection, processing, exploitation, dissemination and analysis of information. government communications systems provides communications equipment, advanced imagery products and information processing for intelligence systems. it also develops and supplies state-of-the-art wireless surveillance and tracking equipment for vehicular, man-portable, airborne, and remote/unattended applications. such integrated intelligence and surveillance solutions help improve situational awareness, data collection accuracy and product analysis by correlating near real-time mission data and intelligence reference data for display and analysis by strategic and tactical planners and decision makers. a significant portion of this business involves classified programs. while classified programs generally are not discussed in this annual report on form 10-k, the operating results relating to classified programs are included in our consolidated financial statements. the business risks associated with such programs do not differ materially from those of other u.s. government programs. during fiscal 2007, we were awarded several new programs and follow-on contracts with national intelligence customers. ongoing previously awarded programs include: a contract with space systems/loral to design and construct unfurlable mesh reflectors for commercial satellites; a contract with the nsa for the rapidly deployable integrated command and control system ( radic ) program pursuant to which we are developing a knowledge-management software system for nsa analysts. government communications systems is also supplying geospatial and imagery-derived products for the nga under the global geospatial intelligence program, including foundation data products, three-dimensional visualization, mapping and charting production services, surveying services and production management. civil programs: government communications systems is a supplier to civilian agencies of the u.s. government, including the faa and the census bureau, supplying these agencies with custom systems and software designed to collect, store, retrieve, process, analyze, interpret, display and distribute information, including meteorological data processing systems, electronic archival systems, graphic information systems and telecommunication services systems. government communications systems provides systems integration to large-scale, geographically dispersed enterprises. for example, government communications systems is assisting the faa in modernizing the u.s. air traffic control system and infrastructure. we are the prime contractor on a 15-year, $2.2 billion contract to integrate and 4 table of contents modernize the faa telecommunications infrastructure ( fti ). this program is consolidating telecommunications at more than 4,400 faa facilities nationwide, while reducing operating costs, enhancing network efficiency, reliability and security and improving service. during fiscal 2005, we were awarded a further contract by the faa to add mission support services to the fti program, as well as a follow-on contract for the faa weather and advanced radar processing system. in the first quarter of fiscal 2007, we completed the transition of fti new satellite network to serve operational requirements and the new mission support network that provides the faa administrative functions. the total contract amount for the fti program, including options, could reach $3.5 billion through 2017. government communications systems is also working with the faa on other programs, including the voice switching and control system program, which allows air traffic controllers to establish critical air-to-ground and ground-to-ground communications with pilots as well as other air traffic controllers. government communications systems is a developer of complex, large-scale databases and information systems and services. government communications systems is the prime contractor for the u.s. census bureau master address file/topologically integrated geographic encoding and referencing accuracy improvement project ( mtaip ). the mtaip contract was awarded to harris in 2002 and during fiscal 2006 the u.s. census bureau exercised its option to extend the contract for four years. the mtaip program will provide a computer database of all addresses and locations in the u.s. where people live or work, covering an estimated 115 million residences and 60 million businesses in the u.s. during fiscal 2006, government communications systems was awarded a five-year, $600 million contract from the u.s. census bureau as prime contractor for its field data collection automation ( fdca ) program. under the fdca program, government communications systems is integrating multiple automated systems and has developed a new handheld device with integrated gps and secure communication capabilities that together will enable 500,000 census takers to electronically collect field data in door-to-door interviews during the 2010 census. information technology services programs: government communications systems provides technical engineering, operations and services to the u.s. government. such services include information technology outsourcing, enterprise management, engineering and systems design. information technology outsourcing services include data entry, network administration, system operations and maintenance and procurement and logistics support. enterprise management services include systems engineering and integration, network design, capacity expansions and information assurance and security. ongoing programs include a contract with the nro to provide operations, maintenance and support services for the agency global communications and information systems network ( patriot ) in space and on the ground, which supports its global analyst community. the new processes, efficiency tools and centralized enterprise management system we are providing as part of the patriot program are expected to yield more cost-effective information technology service management. the patriot program has a potential value to us of $1 billion over 10 years. other ongoing programs include: a contract with disa in support of its crisis management system; a contract under the mission communications operations and maintenance ( mcom ) program, pursuant to which government communications systems provides operations and maintenance services to the u.s. air force satellite control network communications functions at schriever afb, colorado, and onizuka afs, california; a contract under the operational space services and support ( osss ) program, pursuant to which government communications systems provides operations and maintenance services to the air force satellite control network remote tracking stations and global positioning satellite sites worldwide. during fiscal 2007, government communications systems was awarded a 12-month, $42 million follow-on contract by the u.s. department of state, bureau of consular affairs to provide technical support services to more than 230 u.s. embassies and consulates around the world ( state 6 ), including providing complete systems and operational support related to the high-volume business applications of the consulates and embassies, such as processing of approximately 5 million visa applications annually and other services required to support united states citizens living or traveling abroad. in support of this ongoing program for information technology systems and service modernization, government communications systems provides system configuration management, system upgrades, help desk services, web development and training, and its support services benefit border protection initiatives with the addition of biometric technology to the visa application process. also during fiscal 2007, we acquired multimax. as noted above, we operate multimax as part of our information technology services programs area. multimax customers, including the u.s. navy, marine corps, air force, army, dhs, department of state, department of veterans affairs and faa, broaden the customer base of our information technology services programs area. the acquisition of multimax provides new growth opportunities through its key positions on major contracts, such as the navy marine corps intranet ( nmci ) program, and gwacs including netcents, eagle, ites-2s and firstsource, which are information technology procurement vehicles broadly accessible by u.s. government agencies. 5 table of contents revenue, backlog and contracts: revenue in fiscal 2007 for the government communications systems segment increased 10 percent to $1,997 million from $1,813 million in fiscal 2006 and was $1,805 million in fiscal 2005. segment operating income increased 4 percent to $225.6 million from $216.5 million in fiscal 2006 and was $203.4 million in fiscal 2005. this segment contributed 47 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2007, 52 percent in fiscal 2006 and 60 percent in fiscal 2005. in fiscal 2007, approximately 30 percent of the revenue for this segment was under contracts with prime contractors and approximately 70 percent was under direct contracts with customers, compared to 33 percent of revenue under contracts with prime contractors and 67 percent of revenue under direct contracts with customers in fiscal 2006. some of this segment more significant programs in fiscal 2007 included the fti program, the patriot program, the fdca program, the mcom program, the f/a-18e/f super hornet platform and various classified programs. other significant programs included the f-35 joint strike fighter platform, ifcs, mtaip, mids and several classified programs. the largest program by revenue represented approximately 12 percent of this segment revenue for fiscal 2007, compared to approximately 10 percent for fiscal 2006. the 10 largest programs by revenue represented approximately 38 percent of this segment revenue in fiscal 2007, 33 percent in fiscal 2006 and approximately 31 percent in fiscal 2005. in fiscal 2007, this segment had a diverse portfolio of over 300 programs. historically, this diversity has provided a stable backlog and reduced potential risks that come from reductions in funding or changes in customer priorities. in fiscal 2007 and 2006, u.s. government customers, whether directly or through prime contractors, accounted for approximately 95 percent of this segment total revenue, with the dod accounting for 39 percent of this segment fiscal 2007 revenue and the faa accounting for 15 percent. the funded backlog of unfilled orders for this segment was $402 million at july 27, 2007, compared with $382 million at july 28, 2006 and $410 million at july 29, 2005. substantially all this funded backlog is expected to be filled during fiscal 2008, but we can give no assurance of such fulfillment. unfunded backlog for this segment was $4,147 million at july 27, 2007, compared with $4,159 million at july 28, 2006 and $4,019 million at july 29, 2005. additional information regarding funded and unfunded backlog for this segment is provided under item 1. business funded and unfunded backlog. most of the sales of the government communications systems segment are made directly or indirectly to the u.s. government under contracts or subcontracts containing standard government contract clauses providing for redetermination of profits, if applicable, and for termination for the convenience of the u.s. government or for default based upon performance. this segment contracts include both cost-reimbursement and fixed-price contracts. cost-reimbursement contracts provide for the reimbursement of allowable costs plus the payment of a fee. these contracts fall into three basic types: (i) cost-plus fixed-fee contracts, which provide for the payment of a fixed fee irrespective of the final cost of performance; (ii) cost-plus incentive-fee contracts, which provide for increases or decreases in the fee, within specified limits, based upon actual results compared to contractual targets relating to factors such as cost, performance and delivery schedule; and (iii) cost-plus award-fee contracts, which provide for the payment of an award fee determined at the discretion of the customer based upon the performance of the contractor against pre-established performance criteria. under cost-reimbursement contracts, this segment is reimbursed periodically for allowable costs and is paid a portion of the fee based on contract progress. some overhead costs have been made partially or wholly unallowable for reimbursement by statute or regulation. examples are certain merger and acquisition costs, lobbying costs and certain litigation defense costs. this segment fixed-price contracts are either firm fixed-price contracts or fixed-price incentive contracts. under firm fixed-price contracts, this segment agrees to perform a specific scope of work for a fixed price and, as a result, benefits from cost savings and carries the burden of cost overruns. under fixed-price incentive contracts, this segment shares with the u.s. government both savings accrued from contracts performed for less than target costs as well as costs incurred in excess of targets up to a negotiated ceiling price (which is higher than the target cost), but carries the entire burden of costs exceeding the negotiated ceiling price. accordingly, under such incentive contracts, profit may also be adjusted up or down depending upon whether specified performance objectives are met. under firm fixed-price and fixed-price incentive contracts, this segment usually receives either milestone payments equaling 100 percent of the contract price or monthly progress payments from the u.s. government in amounts equaling 75 percent of costs incurred under u.s. government contracts. the remaining amounts, including profits or incentive fees, are billed upon delivery and final acceptance of end items and deliverables under the contract. fixed-price contracts generally have higher profit margins than cost-reimbursement contracts. production contracts are mainly fixed-price contracts, and development contracts are generally cost-reimbursement contracts. for fiscal 2007, 51 percent of the revenue of this segment was generated from cost-reimbursement contracts and 49 percent was generated from fixed-price contracts compared to 52 percent and 48 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2006 and 60 percent and 40 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2005. gwac and indefinite delivery indefinite quantity ( idiq ) contracts, which can include task orders for each contract type, require us to compete both for the initial 6 table of contents contract and then for individual task or delivery orders under the contract. for a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, see item 1. business principal customers; government contracts, item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings. rf communications rf communications is a worldwide supplier of secure voice and data radio communications products, systems and networks to the dod, other federal and state agencies, and allied government defense and peacekeeping forces. rf communications offers a comprehensive line of secure radio products and systems for manpack, handheld, vehicular, strategic fixed-site and shipboard applications. these radio systems are highly flexible, interoperable and capable of supporting diverse mission requirements. rf communications falcon family of software-defined tactical radios includes the falcon ii secure high-frequency, very high-frequency, ultra high-frequency and multiband handheld, manpack and vehicular radio systems, and the falcon iii multiband, multimode, multimission handheld, manpack, vehicular and high-capacity data radios and secure personal role radio with wideband networking capability. these radios are built on a software-defined radio platform that is reprogrammable to add features or software upgrades. software-defined radio technology offers significantly increased flexibility in support of a variety of wireless communications protocols. this common-platform, software-based system addresses the increasing need for an integrated high-frequency, very high-frequency and ultra high-frequency communication system. it also provides interconnectivity among land-based and wireless communications media. these radios also have military-strength embedded encryption and can be linked to computers, providing network capabilities on the battlefield. the falcon iii multiband handheld is the first tactical radio to be certified without waivers by the joint program executive office ( jpeo ) as fully compliant with the software communications architecture ( sca ) of the joint tactical radio system ( jtrs ). the falcon iii handheld radio also has been certified by the nsa for the protection of voice and data traffic up through top secret/sci level. falcon iii radios provide multimode capability, including secure ground-to-ground, ground-to-air, and long-range tactical satellite communications. falcon iii radios can be configured to accommodate vehicle-mounted functionality while providing handheld portability. falcon iii radios address a full range of evolving mission requirements, including backwards compatibility and interoperability with legacy systems, such as single channel ground and airborne systems ( sincgars ), and are software upgradeable to incorporate new waveforms as they are developed. in fiscal 2007, rf communications introduced the falcon iii multiband, multimission, manpack tactical radio which combines traditional multiband radio features with new capabilities such as commercial l-band satcom and wideband mobile ad hoc networking; the very small and lightweight falcon iii secure personal role radio, which provides secure, digitized voice and data communications to an individual, and with wideband networking capability; and a high-capacity, line-of-site ( hclos ) radio, which is a lightweight, broadband, ethernet system to securely transmit internet protocol ( ip ) traffic up to 50 kilometers and support throughput in excess of 70 megabits. rf communications also provides tactical networking and data products which provide highly integrated and secure communications over high-frequency, very high-frequency and ultra high-frequency radio links. key product areas include advanced networking interfaces, efficient email and image transmission software and advanced, high-frequency modems. for example, rf communications tactical network access hub, together with the falcon ii radios, form the basis of the harris tactical network that allows radio operators to send and receive phone calls and allows radio outstations to have wireless ip connectivity, extending telecommunication and local/wide area data networks down to the tactical radio level. these voice and data communications are secured by digital encryption. rf communications wireless email and messaging systems, the harris wireless gateway and wireless message terminal, transfer electronic mail and files in a secure environment over high-frequency, very high-frequency and ultra high-frequency radio, landline, facsimile or satellite. these reliable and flexible email and messaging applications complement customers existing communications infrastructure and adhere to federal and military standard high-frequency protocols. rf communications digital video imaging products and systems include software for fast and reliable transmission of high-resolution digital imagery, motion video clips, text and other data over tactical radio communications channels. rf communications also develops encryption solutions for markets with demanding communications security requirements, utilizing security algorithms that meet a wide range of applications and/or country needs to address unique privacy requirements of customers (whether a government agency or supplier or a commercial manufacturer) and providing nsa-certified products and systems that range from single integrated circuits to major communications systems. rf communications sierra tm ii cryptographic subsystem is a miniaturized programmable module that can be integrated into radios and other voice and data communications devices to encrypt classified information prior to transmission and storage. sierra ii was certified in fiscal 2005 by the nsa. rf 7 table of contents communications encryption modules currently meet or exceed the highest security standards established by the u.s. government. sierra ii can be used for tactical radios, wireless local area networks ( wlans ), remote sensors, guided munitions and unmanned aerial vehicles. rf communications also offers the citadel cryptographic engine which provides military grade, type iv encryption, providing the ability for exportable encryption at a low cost for our family of falcon ii radios. rf communications secure wlan solution, secnet 11 plus, is certified by the nsa commercial comsec endorsement program ( ccep ) and enables military and government users to communicate multimedia information, including data, voice and video, through a secure wireless network at 11 megabits per second. leveraging the sierra encryption module, secnet 11 plus enables government agencies to use commercial, state-of-the-art wlan technology in a secure environment. rf communications new secnet 54 tm family of ip communications encryption products, designed to keep data, voice and video communications secure, is comprised of a modular architecture with two components: a cryptographic module that provides all security-critical functions and an external module that handles the transport of encrypted data over specific protocols. in fiscal 2007, rf communications received type 1 certification from the nsa for the new secnet 54 secure wireless local area network product line, which enables transmission of sensitive defense communications over wireless infrastructures in applications such as tactical operations centers. rf communications also provides unattended ground sensor systems, which are a force-multiplier solution with a network of easily deployable, remotely located products that detect movement of personnel and vehicles. rf communications falcon watch tm remote intrusion detection and surveillance systems are fully integrated with falcon ii radios and are designed for surveillance and monitoring of high-value assets such as troop encampments, airfields, base installations, supply routes and depots. in larger networks it also can be used to monitor and protect national borders, regional boundaries and assets in homeland defense and peacekeeping operations. these sensor systems can be comprised of remote, battery-operated, wireless sensors using seismic, magnetic and/or passive infra-red detectors; relays; falcon tactical radios; and sensor management application software. the worldwide transformation to modernize and expand tactical communications capabilities to provide secure, interoperable and reliable communications continues to drive strong demand and positive results for this segment. force modernization efforts, including ground force restructuring and expansion, have shown continued momentum and funding as the dod continues to place a high priority on investment in tactical communications, seeking to deliver enhanced command, control and communications to more and smaller operating units. in fiscal 2007, rf communications responded to requirements for its falcon family of radios from a broad base of u.s. government customers, including the u.s. army, marine corps, navy and air force. internationally, rf communications radios are the standard of nato and partnership for peace countries. orders in fiscal 2007 were received from kenya, the united kingdom, algeria, iraq, canada, romania, poland, spain, saudi arabia, belgium, bulgaria, denmark, the republic of georgia, the netherlands, afghanistan, singapore and nigeria. in may 2007, rf communications was awarded an idiq contract with a maximum value of $422 million from the u.s. army for falcon ii hf manpack tactical radios and related vehicular and base station systems. rf communications received an initial $104 million order against the contract in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007. in june 2007, rf communications was awarded an idiq contract by the jtrs jpeo to supply the dod with jtrs-approved falcon iii multiband handheld tactical radios and vehicular systems. the contract has a one-year maximum value of $2.7 billion and a five-year maximum value of approximately $7 billion (including additional options that may be exercised over a five-year period). under the contract, orders will be awarded based on competitive bidding between rf communications and one other supplier. revenue in fiscal 2007 for the rf communications segment increased 46 percent to $1,179 million from $809 million in fiscal 2006 and was $537 million in fiscal 2005. segment operating income increased 45 percent to $403.2 million in fiscal 2007, compared to $278.9 million in fiscal 2006 and was $166.5 million in fiscal 2005. the rf communications segment contributed 27 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2007, 23 percent in fiscal 2006 and 17 percent in fiscal 2005. in fiscal 2007, approximately 28 percent of the revenue of this segment was derived outside of the united states, compared to 37 percent in fiscal 2006 and 45 percent in fiscal 2005. in fiscal 2007, u.s. government customers, whether directly or through others, accounted for approximately 76 percent of this segment total revenue, compared to 72 percent in fiscal 2006 and 54 percent in fiscal 2005. in general, this segment domestic products are sold and serviced directly to customers through its sales organization and through established distribution channels. internationally, this segment markets and sells its products and services through regional sales offices and established distribution channels. see item 1. business international business. the backlog of unfilled orders for this segment was $767 million at july 27, 2007, compared to $703 million at july 28, 2006 and $427 million at july 29, 2005. approximately 85 percent of this backlog of unfilled orders is 8 table of contents expected to be filled during fiscal 2008, but we can give no assurance of such fulfillment. for a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, see item 1. business principal customers; government contracts, item 3. legal proceedings and item 1a. risk factors. as noted above under item 1. business general, the rf communications segment will be combined with our department of defense programs area and reported as part of our new defense communications and electronics segment beginning with the first quarter of fiscal 2008. broadcast communications broadcast communications hardware and software solutions offer a comprehensive approach from a single provider of workflow capabilities along the entire broadcast chain to support and simplify the complete content creation, management, distribution and delivery process for broadcast, cable, satellite, telecommunications and other media content providers. this segment serves the global digital and analog markets, providing video infrastructure digital media products and solutions, enterprise software systems and solutions, and television and radio transmission equipment and systems. the current trend and future of broadcast media involves digitizing content and transporting it simultaneously over many different networks to many types of devices. the need to create, manage and ultimately deliver digital media content is driving an infrastructure upgrade cycle for the media industry. broadcast communications is supporting customers as they expand services for high definition ( hd ) tv, ip tv, video-on-demand and interactive tv. recent acquisitions and a series of new products have established broadcast communications as a provider of end-to-end solutions for the digital and hd infrastructure build-out worldwide. these acquisitions include: encoda systems holdings, inc. ( encoda ) in fiscal 2005 and leitch technology corporation ( leitch ), optimal solutions, inc. ( osi ) and the aastra digital video business ( aastra digital video ) of aastra technologies in fiscal 2006. new products include: harris assured designs tm , a series of preconfigured and tested systems that address customers specific functional and workflow-level requirements, offering the value proposition that a single company can provide one pre-configured solution versus integrating multiple products from multiple vendors; harris channel one tm , a complete solution for automated tv channels that combines a high-quality graphics playout server, animation, live video, video clips, audio, real-time external data feeds and master control functionality in a single chassis, enabling broadcasters to produce and air complete television channels in hd or standard definition ( sd ); and the newsforce family of next-generation sd and hd news editors leveraging the full portfolio of broadcast communications solutions, including digital video asset management, automation, encoding, multiviewer, routing and test and measurement. broadcast communications has also developed the centrio tm multi-image processor, which combines a graphics engine, a broadcast-quality router and integrated, precise test and measurement tools to streamline complex audio/visual monitoring workflow and simplify installation. video infrastructure digital media: broadcast communications video infrastructure digital media product offerings, which were significantly expanded by the fiscal 2006 acquisitions of leitch and aastra digital video, include sd and hd products and systems that enable media companies to streamline workflow from production through transmission. broadcast communications provides a comprehensive, next-generation portfolio of signal processors, display processors, routers, master control and branding systems, network monitoring and control software, and test and measurement instruments that support content throughout the workflow application chain. broadcast communications also provides highly differentiated network access and multiplex platforms, including the harris intraplex and netvx tm solutions, which offer customized integrated management and distribution applications for any content across any connection to support television, government video and public safety applications. products also include the platinum tm large router for mixed video and audio signal routing, the iconmaster tm digital master control system and the videotek line of precision test and measurement instruments. broadcast communications digital media products include scalable, interoperable, shared storage server systems and open platform production and automated graphics, editing and digital signage solutions for broadcast and post production. products include the nexio tm family of scalable, interoperable video servers that employ open standards to accelerate time-to-air and reduce the costs associated with content acquisition, production, distribution and media management and the inscriber line of graphics and titling products. software solutions: broadcast communications software solutions offering, which was significantly expanded with the fiscal 2005 acquisition of encoda and the fiscal 2006 acquisition of osi, enables customers to manage their digital media workflow through a portfolio of software solutions for advertising, media management (traffic, billing and program scheduling), broadband, digital video asset management, and play-out automation. broadcast communications offers modular, standards-based solutions with open application programming interfaces ( apis ) 9 table of contents for ease of integration and future scalability. products include the h-class tm content delivery platform, osi traffic tm software and the invenio tm digital asset management solution. the h-class tm content delivery platform represents an integrated approach to content management at the enterprise level from ingest to distribution over a variety of devices or networks. h-class provides broadcasters and other media, entertainment and content distribution customers with a means to integrate disparate processes from creation to consumption into a single, modular system. transmission systems: broadcast communications develops, manufactures and supplies digital and analog television transmission systems for delivery of rich media over wireless broadcast terrestrial networks on a worldwide basis, including global broadcast and emerging mobile applications. broadcast communications also develops, manufactures and supplies end-to-end products, systems and services for the radio broadcast market. broadcast communications offers a wide range of digital television ( dtv ) products that can support requirements for large international systems. in response to the u.s. government-mandated transition from analog to digital transmission, broadcast communications provided the nation first advanced dtv transmitter, as well as the first commercial dtv application and is a leader with respect to the u.s. digital standard known as atsc. broadcast communications continues to develop next-generation transmission equipment to provide broadcasters with a smooth path from analog to digital broadcasting. broadcast communications is also a provider of european-standard digital dvb-t transmission equipment. broadcast communications is also expanding efforts to reach the emerging mobile television market under the concept of transmitting real-time television to personal devices such as cell phones, pdas or other mobile devices. broadcast communications is developing and providing transmission equipment for various mobile video broadcasting trials in australia, china, the netherlands, the u.k. and the u.s. recent advances in compression and transmission technology (two areas in which broadcast communications has been a leader) will allow broadcasters to deliver content representative of typical live broadcast television programming, as opposed to the short video clips that are the current standard in mobile video. in fiscal 2007, broadcast communications and lg electronics inc. introduced the jointly-developed mph tm in-band mobile dtv system ( mobile-pedestrian-handheld or mph ), a new technology capable of providing dtv signals and extending over-the-air broadcast tv signals beyond customary tv viewing at home to mobile, pedestrian and other handheld devices (such as mobile phones or laptop computers). broadcast communications radio transmission product offerings include digital and analog radio transmission systems, radio studio systems and consoles, and many proprietary technologies that reduce the cost of conversion to digital transmission and enable such new services as surround sound and multi-channel operation. broadcast communications can provide single products or complete systems that range from single-radio studios to consolidated operations and complete nationwide networks with hundreds of radio transmitters. its solutions are scalable to meet the needs of radio broadcasters of different sizes. broadcast communications is a leader in the transition from analog to digital radio. product offerings address the u.s. digital standard called iboc (in-band/on-channel), which is referred to in the market as hd radio , as well as international digital standards including dab (digital audio broadcasting) and drm (digital radio mondiale). the rollout of hd radio in the u.s. continues to progress with approximately 1,400 stations currently on-air with hd radio and approximately 1,900 of the approximately 12,000 remaining radio stations expected to implement hd radio over the next several years. radio transmission products include the flexstar tm family, which provides a bandwidth-efficient bitstream so broadcasters can offer supplemental audio and data capability along with the main program stream. this enables broadcasters to develop new revenue-generating opportunities including multiple programs on the same channel, 5.1 surround sound, on-demand traffic, weather and sports reports, store-and-play capabilities and real-time navigation. during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, we exited our radio resale distribution channel, which involved sales of non-harris oem radio products at low gross margins, sold primarily through a telemarketing group. revenue for the broadcast communications segment increased 11 percent from $538 million in fiscal 2006 to $600 million in fiscal 2007 and was $384 million in fiscal 2005. segment operating income was $11.9 million in fiscal 2007, compared to $22.8 million in fiscal 2006 and $18.1 million in fiscal 2005. the broadcast communications segment contributed 14 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2007, 15 percent in fiscal 2006 and 12 percent in fiscal 2005. approximately 46 percent of the revenue of this segment was derived outside of the united states in fiscal 2007, compared to 41 percent in fiscal 2006 and 34 percent in fiscal 2005. principal customers for broadcast communications products and services include domestic and international television and radio broadcast stations; cable and satellite networks and service providers; telecommunications providers; federal agencies; public safety entities; advertising agencies; and content originators. no single customer accounted for more than 2 percent of fiscal 2007 revenue for the broadcast communications segment. 10 table of contents in general, this segment domestic products are sold and serviced directly to customers through its sales organization and through established distribution channels. internationally, this segment markets and sells its products and services through regional sales offices and established distribution channels. see item 1. business international business. the backlog of unfilled orders for this segment was $323 million at july 27, 2007, compared with $240 million at july 28, 2006 and $210 million at july 29, 2005. approximately 66 percent of this backlog is expected to be filled during fiscal 2008, but we can give no assurance of such fulfillment. for a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, see item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings. harris stratex networks as described in greater detail above under item 1. business recent acquisitions and business combinations, in the third quarter of fiscal 2007, we combined our former microwave communications division with stratex to form harris stratex networks, inc. we own approximately 57 percent of harris stratex networks outstanding stock and the minority stockholders own approximately 43 percent. following the combination, our business segment formerly referred to as microwave communications is now referred to as harris stratex networks and includes the results of the combined business for periods following the combination. harris stratex networks is a global independent supplier of turnkey wireless transmission network solutions. harris stratex networks offers reliable, flexible, scalable and cost-efficient wireless transmission network solutions, including microwave radio systems and network management software, which are backed by comprehensive services and support. harris stratex networks designs, manufactures and sells a range of wireless transmission networking products, solutions and services to customers in more than 135 countries around the world, including mobile and fixed telephone service providers, private network operators, government agencies, transportation and utility companies, public safety agencies and broadcast system operators. harris stratex networks products include point-to-point digital microwave radio systems for mobile system access, backhaul, trunking, license-exempt applications and network management systems, supporting new network deployments, network expansion and capacity upgrades. harris stratex networks provides its products and services principally to the north america microwave, international microwave and network operations markets. north america microwave: harris stratex networks serves the north america microwave market by offering microwave radio products and services to major national carriers and other cellular network operators, public safety operators and other government agencies, systems integrators, transportation and utility companies and other private network operators. a large part of the north american microwave market lies in the cellular backhaul and public safety markets. international microwave: harris stratex networks serves the international microwave market by offering microwave radio products and services to regional and national carriers and other cellular network operators, public safety operators, government and defense agencies and other private network operators in every region outside of north america. harris stratex networks wireless transmission systems deliver regional and country-wide backbone in developing nations, where microwave radio installations provide 21 st -century communications rapidly and economically. rural communities, areas with rugged terrain and regions with extreme temperatures benefit from the ability to build an advanced, affordable communications infrastructure despite these challenges. network operations: harris stratex networks serves the network operations market by offering a wide range of software-based network management solutions for network operators worldwide, from element management to turnkey, end-to-end network management and service assurance solutions for virtually any type of communications or information network including broadband, wireline, wireless and converged networks. harris stratex networks develops, designs, produces, sells and services network management systems, including the netboss product line, for these applications. other element management product families include provision and starview tm . in general, wireless transmission networks are constructed using microwave radios and other equipment to connect cell sites, switching systems, land mobile radio systems, wireline transmission systems and other fixed-access facilities and other communications systems. wireless networks range in size from a single transmission link connecting two buildings to complex networks comprised of thousands of wireless connections. the architecture of a network is influenced by several factors, including the available radio frequency spectrum, coordination of frequencies with existing infrastructure, application requirements, environmental factors and local geography. for many applications, microwave systems offer a lower-cost, highly-reliable and more easily deployable alternative to competing wireline transmission media, such as fiber, copper or coaxial cable. 11 table of contents harris stratex networks principal product families of licensed point-to-point microwave radios include eclipse tm , a platform for nodal wireless transmission systems, and truepoint , a platform for high-performance point-to-point wireless communications. the eclipse product line combines wireless transmission functions with network processing node functions, including many functions that, for non-nodal products, would have to be purchased separately. system functions include voice, data and video transport, node management, multiplexing, routing and cross-connection. eclipse is designed to simplify complex networks and lower the total cost of ownership over the product life. with frequency coverage from 5 to 38 gigahertz, low to high-capacity operation and traditional time-division multiplexing and ethernet transmission capabilities, eclipse is designed to support a wide range of long- and short-haul applications. eclipse is software-configurable, enabling easy capacity upgrades, and gives users the ability to plan and deploy networks and adapt to changing conditions at minimal cost and disruption. harris stratex networks truepoint product family offers full plug-and-play, software programmable microwave radio configuration. it delivers service from 4 to 180 megabits per second capacity at frequencies ranging from 6 to 38 gigahertz. truepoint is designed to meet the current and future needs of network operators, including mobile, private network, government and access service providers. the unique architecture of the core platform reduces both capital expenditures and life cycle costs, while meeting international and north american standards. the software-based architecture enables migration from traditional microwave access applications to higher-capacity transport interconnections. harris stratex networks also offers two license-exempt point-to-point microwave radio product families. harris stratex networks network management product families include netboss, provision and starview. these product families offer a broad set of choices for all levels of network management, from enterprise-wide management and service assurance to element management. netboss is a family of network management and service assurance solutions for managing multi-vendor, multi-technology communications networks. netboss supports wireless and wireline networks of many types, offering fault management, performance management, service activation and assurance, billing mediation and operational support system ( oss ) integration. as a modular, off-the-shelf product, it enables customers to implement management systems immediately or gradually, as their needs dictate. netboss xe offers advanced element management. netboss products are optimized to work seamlessly with harris stratex networks digital microwave radios, such as the truepoint family, but can also be customized to manage products based on any network or computing technology. the provision element manager is a centralized network monitoring and control system optimized for eclipse and truepoint products. approximately 66 percent of the revenue of this segment was derived outside of the united states in fiscal 2007, compared to 57 percent in fiscal 2006 and 46 percent in fiscal 2005. this segment generally sells its north american products and services directly to customers through its sales organization and through established distribution channels. in international markets, this segment markets and sells its products and services through regional sales offices and established distribution channels, using agents and distributors. see item 1. business international business. revenue in fiscal 2007 for the harris stratex networks segment increased 46 percent from $349 million in fiscal 2006 to $508 million in fiscal 2007 and was $320 million in fiscal 2005. this segment had operating income of $146.9 million in fiscal 2007, compared to an operating loss of $19.6 million in fiscal 2006 and operating income of $7.7 million in fiscal 2005. this segment contributed 12 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2007, 10 percent in fiscal 2006 and 11 percent in fiscal 2005. the backlog of unfilled orders for this segment was $232 million at july 27, 2007, compared with $164 million at july 28, 2006 and $94 million at july 29, 2005. substantially all of this backlog is expected to be filled during fiscal 2008, but we can give no assurance of such fulfillment. for a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, see item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings. international business revenue in fiscal 2007 from products exported from the united states (including foreign military sales) or manufactured abroad was $964.4 million (23 percent of our total revenue), compared with $746.5 million (21 percent of our total revenue) in fiscal 2006 and $559.0 million (19 percent of our total revenue) in fiscal 2005. our international sales include both direct exports from the united states and sales from foreign subsidiaries. most of the international sales are derived from the harris stratex networks, rf communications and broadcast communications segments. direct export sales are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars, whereas sales from foreign subsidiaries are generally denominated in the local currency of the subsidiary. exports from the united states, principally to europe, africa, canada, latin america and asia, totaled $613.9 million (64 percent of our international revenue) in fiscal 2007, $418.0 million (56 percent of our international revenue) in fiscal 2006 and $326.6 million (58 percent of our international revenue) in fiscal 2005. foreign operations represented 8 percent of 12 table of contents revenue in fiscal 2007, 9 percent of revenue in fiscal 2006 and 8 percent of revenue in fiscal 2005. foreign operations represented 28 percent of long-lived assets as of june 29, 2007 and 24 percent of long-lived assets as of june 30, 2006. financial information regarding our domestic and international operations is contained in note 23 : business segments in the notes and is incorporated herein by reference. principal international manufacturing facilities are located in canada, china and the united kingdom. the majority of our international marketing activities are conducted through subsidiaries which operate in canada, europe, central and south america and asia. we have also established international marketing organizations and several regional sales offices. reference is made to exhibit 21 subsidiaries of the registrant for further information regarding our foreign subsidiaries. we utilize indirect sales channels, including dealers, distributors and sales representatives, in the marketing and sale of some lines of products and equipment, both domestically and internationally. these independent representatives may buy for resale or, in some cases, solicit orders from commercial or governmental customers for direct sales by us. prices to the ultimate customer in many instances may be recommended or established by the independent representative and may be above or below our list prices. our dealers and distributors generally receive a discount from our list prices and may mark up those prices in setting the final sales prices paid by the customer. during fiscal 2007, revenue from indirect sales channels represented 9 percent of our total revenue and 32 percent of our international revenue, compared to revenue from indirect sales channels in fiscal 2006 representing 6 percent of our total revenue and 23 percent of our international revenue. fiscal 2007 revenue came from a large number of foreign countries, of which no single country accounted for 3 percent or more of our total revenue. some of our exports are paid for by letters of credit, with the balance carried either on an open account or installment note basis. advance payments, progress payments or other similar payments received prior to, or upon shipment often cover most of the related costs incurred. significant foreign government contracts generally require us to provide performance guarantees. in order to stay competitive in international markets, we also enter into recourse and vendor financing to facilitate sales to certain customers. the particular economic, social and political conditions for business conducted outside the u.s. differ from those encountered by domestic businesses. our management believes that the overall business risk for the international business as a whole is somewhat greater than that faced by our domestic operations as a whole. a description of the types of risks to which we are subject in international business is contained in item 1a. risk factors. nevertheless, in the opinion of our management, these risks are offset by the diversification of the international business and the protection provided by letters of credit and advance payments. competition we operate in highly competitive markets that are sensitive to technological advances. although successful product and systems development is not necessarily dependent on substantial financial resources, many of our competitors in each of our businesses are larger than we are and can maintain higher levels of expenditures for research and development. in each of our businesses we concentrate on the market opportunities that our management believes are compatible with our resources, overall technological capabilities and objectives. principal competitive factors in these businesses are cost-effectiveness, product quality and reliability, technological capabilities, service, past performance, ability to develop and implement complex, integrated solutions, ability to meet delivery schedules and the effectiveness of third-party sales channels in international areas. in the government communications systems segment principal competitors include: accenture, bae systems, boeing, computer sciences, general dynamics, itt industries, l-3 communications, lockheed martin, northrop grumman, raytheon, rockwell collins and saic. consolidation among u.s. defense and aerospace companies has resulted in a reduction in the number of principal prime contractors. as a result of this consolidation, we frequently partner or are involved in subcontracting and teaming relationships with companies that are, from time to time, competitors on other programs. in the rf communications segment principal competitors include: general dynamics, itt industries, raytheon, rohde schwarz, tadiran and thales. in the broadcast communications segment principal competitors include: avid, broadcast electronics, chyron, evertz, harmonic, microsystems, miranda, nautel, nec, omneon, omnibus, pilat media, rad systems, rohde schwarz, sony, tektronix, thomson/grass valley, thomson/thales, vizrt and wide orbit, as well as other smaller companies and divisions of large companies. we believe that our broad product offering and total content delivery solutions are key competitive strengths for this segment. 13 table of contents in the harris stratex networks segment principal competitors include: alcatel-lucent, ceragon, ericsson, eltek-nera, fujitsu, nec, nokia-siemens and tadiran, as well as other smaller companies. several competitors to this segment are original equipment manufacturers or systems integrators through which the segment sometimes distributes and sells products and services to end-users. we believe that network and systems engineering support and service are key competitive strengths for this segment. principal customers; government contracts sales to the u.s. government, which is our only customer accounting for two percent or more of our total revenue, were 66 percent of our total revenue in each of fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005. additional information regarding customers for each of our segments is provided under item 1. business description of business by segment. our u.s. government sales are predominantly derived from contracts with agencies of, and prime contractors to, the u.s. government. u.s. government contracts are terminable for the convenience of the u.s. government, as well as for default based on performance. companies supplying goods and services to the u.s. government are dependent on congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of funds and may be affected by changes in u.s. government policies resulting from various military, political and international developments. long-term government contracts and related orders are subject to cancellation if appropriations for subsequent performance periods become unavailable. under contracts terminable for the convenience of the u.s. government, a contractor is entitled to receive payments for its allowable costs and, in general, the proportionate share of fees or earnings for the work done. contracts that are terminable for default generally provide that the u.s. government pays only for the work it has accepted and may require the contractor to pay for the incremental cost of reprocurement and may hold the contractor liable for damages. in many cases, there is also uncertainty relating to the complexity of designs, necessity for design improvements and difficulty in forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work. under many u.s. government contracts, we are required to maintain facility and personnel security clearances complying with dod and other federal agency requirements. for further discussion of risks relating to u.s. government contracts, see the discussion regarding government communications systems under item 1. business description of business by segment for the fiscal year ended june 29, 2007 and see item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings. funded and unfunded backlog our total company-wide funded and unfunded backlog was approximately $5,871 million at july 27, 2007, $5,641 million at july 28, 2006 and $5,160 million at july 29, 2005. the funded portion of this backlog was approximately $1,724 million at july 27, 2007, $1,482 million at july 28, 2006 and $1,141 million at july 29, 2005. the determination of backlog involves substantial estimating, particularly with respect to customer requirements contracts and development and production contracts of a cost-reimbursement or incentive nature. we define funded backlog as unfilled firm orders for which funding has been authorized. unfunded backlog is primarily unfilled firm and expected follow-on orders that have not yet met our established funding criteria. our established funding criteria require both authorization by the customer as well as our management determination that there is little or no risk to the authorized funding being rescinded. in fiscal 2008, we expect to fill approximately 85 percent of our total funded backlog as of july 27, 2007. however, there can be no assurance that our funded backlog will become revenue in any particular period, if at all. backlog is subject to delivery delays and program cancellations, which are beyond our control. additional information with regard to the backlog of each of our segments is provided under item 1. business description of business by segment for the fiscal year ended june 29, 2007 and item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. research, development and engineering research, development and engineering expenditures totaled approximately $924 million in fiscal 2007, $824 million in fiscal 2006 and $879 million in fiscal 2005. company-sponsored research and product development costs, which included research and development for commercial products and independent research and development related to government products and services, were approximately $235 million in fiscal 2007, $198 million in fiscal 2006 and $146 million in fiscal 2005. a portion of our independent research and development costs are allocated among contracts and programs in process under u.s. government contractual arrangements. company-sponsored research and product development costs not otherwise allocable are charged to expense when incurred. the portion of total research, development and engineering expenditures that was not company-sponsored was funded by a combination of u.s. government and commercial customers and is included in our revenue. company-funded research is directed to the development of 14 table of contents new products and to building technological capability in selected communications and electronic systems markets. u.s. government-funded research helps strengthen and broaden our technical capabilities. all of our segments maintain their own engineering and new product development departments, with scientific assistance provided by advanced-technology departments. as of june 29, 2007, we employed approximately 6,800 engineers and scientists and are continuing efforts to make the technologies developed in any of our business segments available for all other business segments. patents and other intellectual property we consider our patents and other intellectual property, in the aggregate, to constitute an important asset. we own a large and valuable portfolio of patents, trade secrets, know-how, confidential information, trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property. we also license intellectual property to and from third parties. as of june 29, 2007, we held approximately 967 u.s. patents and 659 foreign patents, and had approximately 554 u.s. patent applications pending and 1,012 foreign patent applications pending. however, we do not consider our business or any business segment to be materially dependent upon any single patent, license or other intellectual property right, or any group of related patents, licenses or other intellectual property rights. we are engaged in a proactive patent licensing program and have entered into a number of licenses and cross-license agreements, some of which generate royalty income. although existing license agreements have generated income in past years and may do so in the future, there can be no assurances we will enter into additional income-producing license agreements. from time to time we engage in litigation to protect our patents and other intellectual property. any of our patents, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights and other proprietary rights could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or may not provide competitive advantages. with regard to patents relating to our government communications systems segment, the u.s. government often has an irrevocable, non-exclusive, royalty-free license, pursuant to which the u.s. government may use or authorize others to use the inventions covered by such patents. pursuant to similar arrangements, the u.s. government may consent to our use of inventions covered by patents owned by other persons. numerous trademarks used on or in connection with our products are also considered to be a valuable asset. environmental and other regulations our facilities and operations are subject to numerous domestic and international laws and regulations designed to protect the environment, particularly with regard to wastes and emissions. the applicable environmental laws and regulations are common within the industries and markets in which we operate and serve. we believe that we have complied with these requirements and that such compliance has not had a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. based upon currently available information, we do not expect expenditures to protect the environment and to comply with current environmental laws and regulations over the next several years to have a material impact on our competitive or financial position, but we can give no assurance that such expenditures will not exceed current expectations. if future laws and regulations contain more stringent requirements than presently anticipated, actual expenditures may be higher than our present estimates of those expenditures. we have installed waste treatment facilities and pollution control equipment to satisfy legal requirements and to achieve our waste minimization and prevention goals. we did not spend material amounts on environmental capital projects in fiscal 2007, 2006 or 2005. a portion of our environmental expenditures relates to discontinued operations for which we have retained certain environmental liabilities. we currently expect that amounts to be spent for environmental-related capital projects will not be material in fiscal 2008. these amounts may increase in future years. additional information regarding environmental and regulatory matters is set forth in item 3. legal proceedings and in note 1: significant accounting policies in the notes. electronic products are subject to governmental environmental regulation in a number of jurisdictions. equipment produced by our broadcast communications and harris stratex networks segments, in particular, is subject to domestic and international requirements requiring end-of-life management and/or restricting materials in products delivered to customers, including the european union directive 2002/96/ec on waste electrical and electronic equipment ( weee ) and directive 2002/95/ec on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment ( rohs ). such requirements are not applicable to most equipment produced by our government communications systems and rf communications segments. we believe that we have complied with such rules and regulations, where applicable, with respect to our existing products sold into such jurisdictions. we intend to comply with such rules and regulations with respect to our future products. radio communications are also subject to governmental regulation. equipment produced by our broadcast communications and harris stratex networks segments, in particular, is subject to domestic and international requirements to avoid interference among users of radio and television frequencies and to permit interconnection of telecommunications equipment. we believe that we have complied with such rules and regulations with respect to 15 table of contents our existing products, and we intend to comply with such rules and regulations with respect to our future products. reallocation of the frequency spectrum also could impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. raw materials and supplies because of the diversity of our products and services, as well as the wide geographic dispersion of our facilities, we use numerous sources for the wide array of raw materials (such as electronic components, printed circuit boards, metals and plastics) needed for our operations and for our products. we are dependent upon suppliers and subcontractors for a large number of components and subsystems and the ability of our suppliers and subcontractors to adhere to customer or regulatory materials restrictions and to meet performance and quality specifications and delivery schedules. in some instances, we are dependent upon one or a few sources, either because of the specialized nature of a particular item or because of local content preference requirements pursuant to which we operate on a given project. while we have been affected by financial and performance issues of some of our suppliers and subcontractors, we have not been materially adversely affected by the inability to obtain raw materials or products. in fiscal 2007, our broadcast communications segment experienced component shortages from vendors as a result of the new rohs environmental regulations in the european union, which became effective on july 1, 2006. these regulations caused a spike in demand for lead-free electronic components, resulting in industry-wide supply chain shortages. seasonality no material portion of our business is considered to be seasonal. various factors can affect the distribution of our revenue between accounting periods, including the timing of u.s. government contract awards, the availability of funding, product deliveries and customer acceptance. employees as of june 29, 2007, we employed approximately 16,000 people, compared with approximately 13,900 employees at the end of fiscal 2006. approximately 89 percent of our employees are located in the united states. a significant number of employees in our government communications systems segment possess a security clearance. we also utilize a number of independent contractors. none of our employees in the united states is represented by a labor union. in certain international subsidiaries, our employees are represented by workers councils or statutory labor unions. in general, we believe that our relations with our employees are good. website access to harris reports; available information general. we maintain an internet website at http://www.harris.com. our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to such reports, filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the securities and exchange commission ( sec ). we also will provide the reports in electronic or paper form free of charge upon request. we also make available free of charge on our website our annual report to shareholders and proxy statement. our website and the information posted thereon are not incorporated into this annual report on form 10-k or any other report that we file with or furnish to the sec. all reports we file with or furnish to the sec also are available free of charge via the sec electronic data gathering and retrieval ( edgar ) system available through the sec website at http://www.sec.gov . the public may read and copy any materials filed by us with the sec at the sec public reference room, 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. additional information relating to our businesses, including our operating segments, is set forth in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. corporate governance principles and committee charters. we previously adopted corporate governance principles, which are available on the corporate governance section of our website at www.harris.com/harris/cg/ . in addition, the charters of each of the committees of our board, namely, the audit committee, business conduct and corporate responsibility committee, corporate governance committee, finance committee and management development and compensation committee, are also available on the corporate governance section of our website. a copy of the charters is also available free of charge upon written request to our corporate secretary at harris corporation, 1025 west nasa boulevard, melbourne, florida 32919. certifications. we have filed with the sec the certifications required by section 302 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 as exhibits to this annual report on form 10-k. in addition, an annual ceo certification was submitted by our chief executive officer to the new york stock exchange in november 2006 in accordance with 16 table of contents the nyse listing standards, which included a certification that he was not aware of any violation by harris of the nyse corporate governance listing standards. item 1a. risk factors. we have described many of the trends and other factors that could impact our business and future results in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. in addition, our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, those set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or our anticipated future results. we participate in markets that are often subject to uncertain economic conditions, which makes it difficult to estimate growth in our markets and, as a result, future income and expenditures. we participate in markets that are subject to uncertain economic conditions. as a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth in some of the markets in which we participate. because all components of our budgeting and forecasting are dependent upon estimates of growth in the markets we serve, the uncertainty renders estimates of future income and expenditures even more difficult. as a result, we may make significant investments and expenditures but never realize the anticipated benefits, which could adversely affect our results of operations. the future direction of the overall domestic and global economies also will have a significant impact on our overall performance. we depend on the u.s. government for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of this relationship or a shift in u.s. government funding could have adverse consequences on our future business. we are highly dependent on sales to the u.s. government. approximately 66 percent of our net revenue in each of fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005 was derived from sales to the u.s. government. therefore, any significant disruption or deterioration of our relationship with the u.s. government would significantly reduce our revenue. our u.s. government programs must compete with programs managed by other government contractors for limited resources and for uncertain levels of funding. our competitors continuously engage in efforts to expand their business relationships with the u.s. government and will continue these efforts in the future. the u.s. government may choose to use other contractors for its limited number of programs. in addition, the funding of programs also competes with non-procurement spending of the u.s. government. budget decisions made by the u.s. government are outside of our control and have long-term consequences for our business. a shift in u.s. government spending to other programs in which we are not involved, an increase in non-procurement spending or a reduction in u.s. government spending generally, could have material adverse consequences for our business. we depend significantly on our u.s. government contracts, which often are only partially funded, subject to immediate termination, and heavily regulated and audited. the termination or failure to fund one or more of these contracts could have an adverse impact on our business. over its lifetime, a u.s. government program may be implemented by the award of many different individual contracts and subcontracts. the funding of u.s. government programs is subject to congressional appropriations. although multi-year contracts may be planned or authorized in connection with major procurements, congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may continue for several years. consequently, programs often receive only partial funding initially, and additional funds are committed only as congress authorizes further appropriations. the termination of funding for a u.s. government program would result in a loss of anticipated future revenue attributable to that program, which could have an adverse impact on our operations. in addition, the termination of a program or the failure to commit additional funds to a program that already has been started could result in lost revenue and increase our overall costs of doing business. generally, u.s. government contracts are subject to oversight audits by u.s. government representatives. in addition, the contracts generally contain provisions permitting termination, in whole or in part, without prior notice at the u.s. government convenience upon the payment only for work done and commitments made at the time of termination. we can give no assurance that one or more of our u.s. government contracts will not be terminated under these circumstances. also, we can give no assurance that we would be able to procure new contracts to offset the revenue or backlog lost as a result of any termination of our u.s. government contracts. because a significant portion of our revenue is dependent on our performance and payment under our u.s. government contracts, the loss of one or more large contracts could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. our government business also is subject to specific procurement regulations and a variety of socio-economic and other requirements. these requirements, although customary in u.s. government contracts, increase our 17 table of contents performance and compliance costs. these costs might increase in the future, thereby reducing our margins, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could lead to suspension or debarment from u.s. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. among the causes for debarment are violations of various statutes, including those related to procurement integrity, export control, u.s. government security regulations, employment practices, protection of the environment, accuracy of records and the recording of costs and foreign corruption. the termination of a u.s. government contract or relationship as a result of any of these acts would have an adverse impact on our operations and could have an adverse effect on our standing and eligibility for future u.s. government contracts. we enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses in the event of cost overruns. we have a number of firm fixed-price contracts. during fiscal 2007 and 2006, approximately 33 percent and 38 percent, respectively, of our total government communications systems and rf communications segments revenue was from fixed-price contracts. these contracts allow us to benefit from cost savings, but they carry the burden of potential cost overruns since we assume all of the cost risk. if our initial estimates are incorrect, we can lose money on these contracts. u.s. government contracts can expose us to potentially large losses because the u.s. government can hold us responsible for completing a project or, in certain circumstances, paying the entire cost of its replacement by another provider regardless of the size or foreseeability of any cost overruns that occur over the life of the contract. because many of these contracts involve new technologies and applications and can last for years, unforeseen events, such as technological difficulties, fluctuations in the price of raw materials, problems with other contractors and cost overruns, can result in the contractual price becoming less favorable or even unprofitable to us over time. furthermore, if we do not meet contract deadlines or specifications, we may need to renegotiate contracts on less favorable terms, be forced to pay penalties or liquidated damages or suffer major losses if the customer exercises its right to terminate. in addition, some of our contracts have provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights, and if we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts we may not realize their full benefits. our results of operations are dependent on our ability to maximize our earnings from our contracts. lower earnings caused by cost overruns and cost controls would have an adverse impact on our financial results. furthermore, the potential impact of this risk on our earnings, results of operations and financial results would be magnified by a shift in the mix of our contracts and programs toward a greater percentage of firm fixed-price contracts. we derive a substantial portion of our revenue from international operations and are subject to the risks of doing business internationally, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates. we are dependent on sales to customers outside the united states. in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, revenue from products exported from the u.s. or manufactured abroad was 23 percent, 21 percent and 19 percent, respectively, of our total revenue. approximately 36 percent of our international business in fiscal 2007 was transacted in local currency environments. losses resulting from currency rate fluctuations can adversely affect our results. we expect that international revenue will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue. also, a significant portion of our international revenue is in less-developed countries. we are subject to risks of doing business internationally, including: currency exchange controls, fluctuations of currency and currency revaluations; the laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments relating to investments and operations, as well as u.s. laws affecting the activities of u.s. companies abroad; changes in regulatory requirements, including imposition of tariffs or embargoes, export controls and other trade restrictions; uncertainties and restrictions concerning the availability of funding, credit or guarantees; the complexity and necessity of using foreign dealers, distributors, sales representatives and consultants; the difficulty of managing an organization doing business in many countries; import and export licensing requirements and regulations, as well as unforeseen changes in export regulations; uncertainties as to local laws and enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights and occasional requirements for onerous contract clauses; and rapid changes in government, economic and political policies, political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of international boycotts or u.s. anti-boycott legislation. while these factors and the impacts of these factors are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations in the future. 18 table of contents our future success will depend on our ability to develop new products that achieve market acceptance. both our commercial and government businesses are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry standards. accordingly, our future performance depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: identify emerging technological trends in our target markets; develop and maintain competitive products; enhance our products by adding innovative hardware, software or other features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors; and manufacture and bring cost-effective products to market quickly. we believe that, in order to remain competitive in the future, we will need to continue to develop new products, which will require the investment of significant financial resources in new product development. the need to make these expenditures could divert our attention and resources from other projects, and we cannot be sure that these expenditures ultimately will lead to the timely development of new products. due to the design complexity of some of our products, we may experience delays in completing development and introducing new products in the future. any delays could result in increased costs of development or redirect resources from other projects. in addition, we cannot provide assurances that the markets for our products will develop as we currently anticipate. the failure of our products to gain market acceptance could significantly reduce our revenue and harm our business. furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing products that gain market acceptance in advance of our products or that our competitors will not develop new products that cause our existing products to become obsolete. if we fail in our new product development efforts or our products fail to achieve market acceptance more rapidly than those of our competitors, our revenue will decline and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. we cannot predict the consequences of future geo-political events, but they may affect adversely the markets in which we operate, our ability to insure against risks, our operations or our profitability. the terrorist attacks in the united states on september 11, 2001, the subsequent u.s.-led military response, current conflicts in the middle east and the potential for future terrorist activities and other recent geo-political events have created economic and political uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on our business and the prices of our securities. these matters have caused uncertainty in the world financial and insurance markets and may increase significantly the political, economic and social instability in the geographic areas in which we operate. these matters also have caused the premiums charged for our insurance coverages to increase and may cause some coverages to be unavailable altogether. while our government businesses have benefited from homeland defense initiatives and the war on terror, these developments may affect adversely our business and profitability and the prices of our securities in ways that we cannot predict at this time. we have made, and may continue to make, strategic acquisitions that involve significant risks and uncertainties. we have made, and we may continue to make, strategic acquisitions that involve significant risks and uncertainties. these risks and uncertainties include: difficulty in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and cost-effective manner and the risk that we encounter significant unanticipated costs or other problems associated with integration; challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits expected from acquisitions; risk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the strategic acquisitions do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; risk that we assume significant liabilities that exceed the limitations of any applicable indemnification provisions or the financial resources of any indemnifying parties; potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses; and risk of diverting the attention of senior management from our existing operations. the inability of our subcontractors to perform, or our key suppliers to timely deliver our components or products, could cause our products to be produced in an untimely or unsatisfactory manner. on many of our contracts, we engage subcontractors. in addition, there are certain parts or components which we source from other manufacturers or vendors. some of our suppliers, from time to time, experience financial and operational difficulties, which may impact their ability to supply the materials, components and subsystems that we require. any inability to develop alternative sources of supply on a cost-effective and timely basis could materially impair our ability to manufacture and deliver products to our customers. we can give no assurances that we will be free from material supply problems or component or subsystems problems in the future. also, our subcontractors 19 table of contents and other suppliers may not be able to maintain the quality of the materials, components and subsystems they supply, which might result in greater product returns and warranty claims and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. third parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their intellectual property rights, and third parties may infringe upon our intellectual property rights. many of the markets we serve are characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights, which often has resulted in protracted and expensive litigation. third parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future that we are infringing directly or indirectly their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing or to have infringed directly or indirectly those intellectual property rights. claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. moreover, we may not be able to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us, or at all. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain of our products. our success depends in large part on our proprietary technology. we rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, know-how, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. if we fail to successfully protect and enforce these rights, our competitive position could suffer. our pending patent and trademark registration applications may not be allowed, or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents or trademark registrations. in addition, our patents may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and police our intellectual property rights. we may not be able to detect infringement and our competitive position may be harmed before we do so. in addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. the outcome of litigation or arbitration in which we are involved is unpredictable and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse affect on our financial position and results of operations. we are defendants in a number of litigation matters and are involved in a number of arbitrations. these actions may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. no assurances can be given that the results of these or new matters will be favorable to us. an adverse resolution of lawsuits or arbitrations could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition. we are subject to customer credit risk. we sometimes provide medium-term and long-term customer financing. customer financing arrangements may include all or a portion of the purchase price for our products and services, as well as working capital. we also may assist customers in obtaining financing from banks and other sources on a recourse or non-recourse basis. while we generally have been able to place a portion of our customer financings with third-party lenders, or to otherwise insure a portion of this risk, a portion of these financings is provided directly by us. there can be higher risks associated with some of these financings, particularly when provided to start-up operations such as local network providers, to customers in developing countries or to customers in specific financing-intensive areas of the telecommunications industry. if customers fail to meet their obligations, losses could be incurred and such losses could have an adverse effect on us. our losses could be much greater if it becomes more difficult to place or insure against these risks with third parties. these risks may increase when the availability of credit decreases. developing new technologies entails significant risks and uncertainties. we are exposed to liabilities that are unique to the products and services we provide. a significant portion of our business relates to designing, developing and manufacturing advanced defense and technology systems and products. new technologies associated with these systems and products may be untested or unproven. components of certain of the defense systems and products we develop are inherently dangerous. failures of satellites, missile systems, air-traffic control systems, homeland security applications and aircraft have the potential to cause loss of life and extensive property damage. in most circumstances, we may receive indemnification from the u.s. government. while we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, and we may be forced to bear substantial costs from an accident or incident. it also is not possible to obtain insurance to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. substantial claims resulting from an incident in excess of u.s. government indemnity and our insurance coverage could harm our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. moreover, any accident or incident for which we are liable, even if fully insured, could negatively affect our standing among our customers and the public, thereby making it more difficult for us to compete effectively, and could significantly impact the cost and availability of adequate insurance in the future. 20 table of contents changes in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. our future effective tax rate may be adversely affected by a number of factors including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation expense; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws; and the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact net income for future periods. our consolidated financial results may be impacted by harris stratex networks financial results, which may vary significantly and be difficult to forecast. we consolidate harris stratex networks financial results in our results of operations. harris stratex networks financial results may vary significantly in the future and may be affected by a number of factors (many of which are outside of our and harris stratex networks control), and accordingly are expected to be difficult to forecast. delays in product delivery or closing of a sale can cause quarterly revenues and quarterly net income to fluctuate significantly from anticipated levels. in addition, harris stratex networks may increase spending in response to competition or in pursuit of new market opportunities. accordingly, we cannot provide assurances that harris stratex networks will be able to achieve profitability in the future or, if profitability is attained, that harris stratex networks will be able to sustain profitability, particularly on a quarter-to-quarter basis. because we consolidate harris stratex networks financial results in our results of operations, fluctuations in and difficulty in forecasting harris stratex networks financial results will result in fluctuations in and likely greater difficulty in forecasting our consolidated results of operations. as a result, such fluctuations and forecasting difficulty may impact our consolidated financial results. we have significant operations in florida that could be impacted in the event of a hurricane and operations in california that could be impacted in the event of an earthquake. our corporate headquarters and significant operations of our government communications systems segment are located in florida. in addition, our broadcast communications and harris stratex networks segments have locations near major earthquake fault lines in california. in the event of a major hurricane, earthquake or other natural disaster we could experience business interruptions, destruction of facilities and/or loss of life, all of which could materially adversely affect our business. changes in future business conditions could cause business investments and/or recorded goodwill to become impaired, resulting in substantial losses and write-downs that would reduce our results of operations. as part of our overall strategy, we will, from time to time, acquire a minority or majority interest in a business. these investments are made upon careful target analysis and due diligence procedures designed to achieve a desired return or strategic objective. these procedures often involve certain assumptions and judgment in determining acquisition price. after acquisition, unforeseen issues could arise which adversely affect the anticipated returns or which are otherwise not recoverable as an adjustment to the purchase price. even after careful integration efforts, actual operating results may vary significantly from initial estimates. goodwill accounts for approximately 35 percent of our recorded total assets. we evaluate the recoverability of recorded goodwill amounts annually, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. the annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. principally, a decrease in expected reporting segment cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill. for additional information on accounting policies we have in place for goodwill impairment, see our discussion under critical accounting policies and estimates in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and note 1: significant accounting policies in the notes. in order to be successful, we must attract and retain key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. our business has a continuing need to attract significant numbers of skilled personnel, including personnel holding security clearances, to support our growth and to replace individuals who have terminated employment due to retirement or for other reasons. to the extent that the demand for qualified personnel exceeds supply, as has been the case in recent 21 table of contents years, we could experience higher labor, recruiting or training costs in order to attract and retain such employees, or could experience difficulties in performing under our contracts if our needs for such employees were unmet. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 55 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of doing business, we are exposed to the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rates and changes in interest rates. we employ established policies and procedures governing the use of financial instruments to manage our exposure to such risks. for a discussion of such policies and procedures and the related risks, see financial risk management in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, which is incorporated by reference into this item 7a. 55 table of contentsrisk factors 18 risk factors of this annual report on form 10-k. all forward-looking statements are qualified by, and should be read in conjunction, with those risk factors. forward-looking statements are made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended, and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, and we undertake no obligation, other than imposed by law, to update forward-looking statements to reflect further developments or information obtained after the date of filing of this annual report on form 10-k or, in the case of any document incorporated by reference, the date of that document, and disclaim any obligation to do so. part i item 1. business. harris harris corporation, together with its subsidiaries, is an international communications and information technology company that applies a solutions approach to serving government and commercial markets in more than 150 countries. our mission is to be the best-in-class global provider of mission critical assured communications products, systems and services for global markets, including defense communications and electronics, government communications, broadcast communications and wireless transmission network solutions. harris was incorporated in delaware in 1926 as the successor to three companies founded in the 1890s. our principal executive offices are located at 1025 west nasa boulevard, melbourne, florida 32919, and our telephone number is (321) 727-9100. our common stock is listed on the new york stock exchange under the symbol hrs. on august 22, 2008, we employed approximately 16,300 people. unless the context otherwise requires, the terms we, our, us, company and harris as used in this annual report on form 10-k refer to harris corporation and its subsidiaries. general we report our financial results for fiscal 2008 in the following four business segments: our defense communications and electronics segment, which was comprised of our (i) rf communications and (ii) defense programs businesses; our government communications systems segment, which was comprised of our (i) civil programs, (ii) national intelligence programs and (iii) it services businesses; our broadcast communications segment, which was comprised of our (i) infrastructure and networking solutions, (ii) media and workflow and (iii) television and radio transmission systems businesses; and our harris stratex networks, inc. ( harris stratex networks ) segment (formerly microwave communications), which was comprised of our (i) north america microwave, (ii) international microwave and (iii) network operations businesses. as discussed further in note 23: business segments in the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report on form 10-k (the notes ), effective for fiscal 2008 (which began june 30, 2007), our defense programs business (part of our government communications systems segment for fiscal 2007) was combined with our rf communications business, and the combined business is reported as our defense communications and electronics segment for fiscal 2008. our broadcast communications and harris stratex networks segments did not 1 table of contents change as a result of these adjustments to our organizational structure. the historical results, discussion and presentation of our business segments as set forth in this annual report on form 10-k reflect the impact of these adjustments to our organizational structure for all periods presented in this annual report on form 10-k. as described in greater detail below under item 1. business description of business by segment for fiscal 2008 harris stratex networks, in the third quarter of fiscal 2007, we combined our former microwave communications division with stratex networks, inc. ( stratex ), a publicly-traded provider of high-speed wireless transmission systems, to form a new company named harris stratex networks, inc. as of june 27, 2008, we owned approximately 56 percent of harris stratex networks outstanding stock. following the combination, our business segment formerly referred to as microwave communications is referred to as harris stratex networks and includes the results of the combined businesses for periods following the combination. financial information with respect to all of our other activities, including corporate costs not allocated to the operating segments or discontinued operations, is reported as part of headquarters expense or non-operating income (loss). each of our business segments has been organized on the basis of specific communications markets. each business segment has its own marketing, engineering and product service and maintenance organizations. broadcast communications and harris stratex networks have their own separate manufacturing operations. defense communications and electronics and government communications systems have both separate and shared manufacturing operations. we manufacture most of the finished products we sell. on august 5, 2008, we announced that we would report our financial results for fiscal 2009 (which began june 28, 2008) in the following four business segments: our rf communications segment; our government communications systems segment, which will be comprised of our (i) defense programs, (ii) national intelligence programs, (iii) civil programs and (iv) it services businesses; our broadcast communications segment, which will be comprised of our (i) infrastructure and networking solutions, (ii) media and workflow and (iii) television and radio transmission systems businesses; and our harris stratex networks segment, which will be comprised of our (i) north america microwave, (ii) international microwave and (iii) network operations businesses. our segment reporting structure for fiscal 2009 reflects that our rf communications business (part of our defense communications and electronics segment for fiscal 2008) will be reported as its own separate segment for fiscal 2009, and that our defense programs business (the other part of our defense communications and electronics segment for fiscal 2008) will be reported as part of our government communications systems segment for fiscal 2009, together with that segment existing businesses (national intelligence programs, civil programs and it services). our broadcast communications and harris stratex networks segments will not change as a result of the adjustments to our segment reporting structure. these adjustments to our segment reporting take effect in fiscal 2009 and therefore do not affect the historical results, discussion or presentation of our business segments as set forth in this annual report on form 10-k. we will begin to report our financial results consistent with this new segment reporting structure beginning with the first quarter of fiscal 2009 and we will conform our historical segment reporting accordingly. our total revenue was approximately $5.3 billion in fiscal 2008 compared with approximately $4.2 billion in fiscal 2007. total revenue in the united states increased 23 percent from fiscal 2007 while international revenue, amounting to 24 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2008, increased 33 percent from fiscal 2007. our net income was $444.2 million in fiscal 2008 compared with $480.4 million in fiscal 2007. financial information about our business segments financial information with respect to our business segments, including revenue, operating income or loss and total assets, and with respect to our operations outside the united states, is contained in note 23: business segments in the notes and is incorporated herein by reference. description of business by segment for fiscal 2008 defense communications and electronics for fiscal 2008, defense communications and electronics was comprised of our rf communications and defense programs businesses. these two businesses have developed significant technology-based capabilities that are directly targeted to a diverse base of u.s. and international defense customers and their continuing needs for more complex, secure communications and information technology networks. 2 table of contents rf communications: we offer to the global tactical radio market a comprehensive line of highly secure software-defined radio products and systems for manpack, handheld, vehicular, strategic fixed-site and shipboard applications, supporting our customers critical missions. these radio systems are highly flexible, interoperable and capable of supporting diverse mission requirements. our falcon family of tactical radios includes the falcon ii secure high-frequency, very high-frequency, ultra high-frequency and multiband handheld, manpack and vehicular radio systems; the falcon iii multiband, multimode, multimission handheld, manpack, vehicular and high-capacity data radios; and the secure personal radio. these radios are built on a platform that is reprogrammable to add features or software upgrades, addressing the increasing need for an integrated high-frequency, very high-frequency and ultra high-frequency communications system. the platform also provides interconnectivity among land-based and wireless communications media. these radios also have military-strength embedded encryption and can be linked to computers, providing network capabilities on the battlefield. our falcon ii and falcon iii radios are being installed on new mine resistant ambush protected ( mrap ) vehicles for the u.s. army, navy, marine corps and air force. in fiscal 2008, we received an order from the u.s. army to supply falcon ii high-frequency vehicular radio systems for high mobility multipurpose wheeled vehicles ( hmmwvs ) and other vehicles. we also announced in fiscal 2008 that the u.s. army is installing joint tactical radio system ( jtrs )-approved falcon iii handheld radios in shadow 200 unmanned aerial vehicles ( uavs ) to serve as critical links in a relay system to extend significantly the communications capabilities of ground forces operating in obstructed line-of-sight environments. the falcon iii is the next-generation family of software-defined tactical radios which have been developed to address the jtrs requirements. falcon iii radios provide multimode capability, including secure, ultra high-frequency ground-to-ground line-of-sight communications, close-air support, and long-range tactical satellite communications, as well as programmable encryption. falcon iii radios offer operational flexibility by addressing a full range of evolving mission requirements, including backwards compatibility and interoperability with legacy systems, such as single channel ground and airborne systems ( sincgars ), and are software upgradeable to incorporate new waveforms as they are developed. the an/prc-152 falcon iii multiband handheld is the first widely fielded tactical radio to be certified without waivers by the joint program executive office ( jpeo ) as fully compliant with the jtrs software communications architecture ( sca ). the falcon iii handheld radio also has been certified by the national security agency ( nsa ) for the protection of voice and data traffic up through the top secret/sci level. in fiscal 2007, we introduced the falcon iii multiband, multimission, manpack tactical radio, which combines traditional multiband radio features with new capabilities such as extended frequency range to 2 gigahertz, commercial l-band satellite communications ( satcom ) and wideband mobile ad hoc networking, and we received certification from the nsa for the falcon iii manpack in fiscal 2008. the falcon iii manpack is the first wideband networking radio to utilize the jtrs sca and receive nsa type 1 certification for the protection of voice and data traffic up through the top secret level. in july 2008, the falcon iii manpack became the first manpack radio with wideband networking capability to be certified as sca-compliant by the jtrs jpeo. in fiscal 2007, we also introduced the very small secure personal radio that delivers secure, tactical digital communications to individual soldiers, and a high-capacity, line-of-site ( hclos ) data radio. the hclos data radio is a lightweight broadband ethernet system that can securely transmit encrypted internet protocol ( ip ) traffic over distances greater than 50 kilometers under clear line-of-sight conditions in fixed point-to-point and 20 kilometers in point-to-multipoint configurations, and can support throughput in excess of 80 megabits per second in a military application of 802.16 wimax technology for high-speed ip data communications, providing ground troops the ability to send secure, high-bandwidth data between command posts and forward-operating bases. we are a leader in multiband frequency radios, which allow operators to perform multiple functions on different frequency bands, eliminating the need and inconvenience of carrying multiple radios. this capability has become increasingly important to global military and peacekeeping forces as they upgrade communications for joint missions. this capability is also important for different federal, state and local authorities confronting difficulty in communicating directly with one another during emergency operations, due to the large number of frequency bands and technologies used in today two-way land mobile radio communications systems, without relying on additional infrastructure or radio gateway equipment. introduced in fiscal 2008, our new rf-1033m multiband multimode land mobile radio delivers true real-time interoperable communications to address this difficulty by providing direct, secure multi-agency communications across multiple frequency bands (very high-frequency and ultra high-frequency bands) in a single portable radio for the growing public safety, homeland security and first responder markets. the rf-1033m multiband multimode land mobile radio is a rugged, mission-critical communications platform for joint operations, built to the same standards as our proven military tactical radio products, and features true software-defined radio architecture, which provides flexibility and capacity for future growth while protecting our customers investments with software-enabled technology migrations. in july 2008, we introduced the unity tm xg-100 land mobile radio, the newest product in a family of multiband software-defined radios that will give 3 table of contents federal, state and local public safety responders the ability to communicate using a single radio across multiple frequencies with virtually any agency responding to an emergency. the unity xg-100 expands on the capabilities of the rf-1033m and extends the covered frequency range to include the 700/800 megahertz bands. we also develop cryptographic solutions for markets with demanding communications security requirements, utilizing security algorithms that meet a wide range of applications and/or country needs to address unique privacy requirements of customers (whether a government agency or supplier or a commercial manufacturer) and providing nsa-certified products and systems that range from single integrated circuits to major communications systems. our sierra tm ii cryptographic subsystem is a miniaturized programmable module that can be integrated into radios and other voice and data communications devices to encrypt classified information prior to transmission and storage. our encryption modules currently meet or exceed the highest security standards established by the u.s. government. sierra ii can be used for tactical radios, wireless local area networks ( wlans ), remote sensors, guided munitions and uavs. we also offer the citadel cryptographic engine, which provides military-grade, type iv encryption, enabling low-cost, exportable encryption for our family of falcon ii radios. our secure wlan ( swlan ) solution, secnet 11 plus, is certified by the nsa commercial comsec endorsement program ( ccep ) and enables military and government users to communicate multimedia information, including data, voice and video, through a secure wireless network at 11 megabits per second. our secnet 54 tm family of ip communications encryption products, designed to keep data, voice and video communications secure, is comprised of a modular architecture that includes a cryptographic module that provides all security-critical functions and companion modules that provide both wired and wireless communications of encrypted data over specific protocols. in fiscal 2007, we received type 1 certification from the nsa for the secnet 54 swlan product line, which enables very high data rate transmission of sensitive defense communications over wireless infrastructures in applications such as tactical operations centers. in fiscal 2008, we received certification of the secnet 54 ethernet module ( emod ) which enables secure transmission of sensitive communications over wired ethernet connections. we also provide unmanned ground sensor systems, which are a force-multiplier solution with a network of easily deployable, remotely located products that detect movement of personnel and vehicles. our falcon watch tm remote intrusion detection and surveillance systems are fully integrated with our falcon radios and are designed for surveillance and monitoring of high-value assets such as troop encampments, airfields, base installations, supply routes and depots. in larger networks these systems also can be used to monitor and protect national borders, regional boundaries and assets in homeland defense and peacekeeping operations. these sensor systems can be comprised of remote, battery-operated, wireless sensors using seismic, magnetic and/or passive infra-red detectors; relays; falcon tactical radios; and sensor management application software. global market demand for our advanced tactical radio solutions continued to increase at strong growth rates in fiscal 2008, driving positive results for this segment. deployment of advanced communications capabilities continues to be a top priority in the u.s. and globally, driven by modernization programs, force expansion, force restructuring and modularity, interoperability required in the growing number of nato-led peacekeeping and disaster-relief missions, and the increasing desire for network-centric communications that will significantly improve situational awareness and force effectiveness through communications superiority. in fiscal 2008, we responded to requirements for our falcon family of radios from a broad base of u.s. government customers, including the u.s. army, marine corps, navy and air force. internationally, our radios are the standard of nato and partnership for peace countries. in fiscal 2008, we received orders from, and/or made deliveries to, a wide range of international customers in countries including albania, algeria, armenia, brunei, bulgaria, chad, denmark, estonia, ethiopia, georgia, iraq, jamaica, kazakhstan, kenya, malaysia, norway, pakistan, the philippines, the republic of niger, romania, saudi arabia, singapore, spain, tajikistan, thailand, the united arab emirates and the united kingdom. in may 2007, we were awarded an indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity ( idiq ) contract with a maximum value of $422 million from the u.s. army for falcon ii high-frequency manpack tactical radios and related vehicular and base station systems. we received an initial $104 million order against the contract in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007. in june 2007, we were awarded the consolidated interim single channel handheld radio ( cischr ) idiq contract by the jtrs jpeo to supply the u.s. department of defense ( dod ) with jtrs-approved falcon iii multiband handheld tactical radios and vehicular systems. the cischr contract has a one-year maximum value of $2.7 billion and a five-year maximum value of approximately $7 billion (including additional options that may be exercised over a five-year period). under the cischr contract, orders are awarded based on competitive bidding between us and another supplier, and we received orders under the cischr contract in fiscal 2008 for the u.s. marine corps and air force. in fiscal 2008, we also received orders under the $212 million tactical handheld radio ( thhr ) idiq contract awarded in july 2007 by the u.s. marine corps to support mrap and other tactical vehicles. in june 2008, we were awarded $118 million in orders to supply the u.s. marine corps with falcon ii multiband manpack radios under a new $350 million idiq contract that is part of the marine 4 table of contents corps strategic radio plan, which will transition the marine corps from legacy single-band radios to multiband, multimission software-defined radios. defense programs: we develop, supply and integrate communications and information processing products, systems and networks for diverse aerospace, terrestrial and maritime applications, in support of the ongoing transformation of communications for u.s. and international customers to network-centric architectures that support real-time situational awareness in combat conditions. our technologies are providing advanced battlespace networking capabilities to assure timely and secure network-centric capabilities across strategic, operational and tactical boundaries in support of the dod full spectrum of war fighting, intelligence and business missions. our major technology areas include satellite communications terminals for mobile ground, fixed-site and shipboard applications; large, deployable satellite antenna reflectors; flat-panel, phased-array and single-mission antennas; aviation electronics for military jets and helicopters, including radios, digital maps, modems, sensors, data buses, fiber optics and microelectronics; and high-speed data links and data networks for wireless communications and smart weapons. for example, our high-speed digital common data link ( cdl ) system called hawklink, which is designed for the u.s. navy light airborne multi-purpose system ( lamps ) helicopters, transmits tactical video, radar, acoustic and other sensor data from the helicopters to their host surface ships at distances greater than 100 nautical miles and at data rates exceeding 21 megabits per second. we also provide high-speed secure wireless network solutions and phased-array capabilities for wireless transmission systems and are developing network-centric communications system architectures and technologies that will link sensors, platforms, weapons and soldiers using open architectures and mobile ad hoc networking capabilities. our mobile ad hoc networking capability allows the military to take its communications infrastructure with it, creating mobile, self-forming and self-healing communications links across the battlefield. for example, our highband networking radio ( hnr ), released in fiscal 2007, provides the military with fully mobile, wireless, long-range, high-bandwidth communications on-the-move by establishing line-of-sight connectivity between users of widely dispersed local area networks ( lans ) using a harris-developed waveform that automatically selects the best communications path available. major ongoing previously awarded programs include the f-35 joint strike fighter, f-22 raptor and f/a-18e/f super hornet aircraft platform programs, for which we provide high-performance, advanced avionics such as high-speed fiber optic networking and switching, intra-flight data links, image processing, digital map software and other electronic components; the warfighter information network-tactical ( win-t ) program for the u.s. army, for which we are designing and testing the wireless transmission system architecture, applying our proven enabling technologies for wireless on-the-move communications, including phased arrays and high-speed secure wireless network solutions; the jtrs ground mobile radio ( gmr ) program, for which we design, test and integrate the crypto subsystem, ground vehicle adaptor, ground vehicle adaptor mount, high-frequency power amplifier and high-frequency coupler; the multifunctional information distribution system ( mids ) terminals program for dod aircraft, which provides u.s. military forces with secure, jam-resistant, digital tactical communications; the multiple launch rocket system ( mlrs ) improved fire control system ( ifcs ) program for the u.s. army, for which we provide the launcher interface unit, power switching unit and weapon interface unit; the large aperture multiband deployable antenna ( lamda ) program, for which we provide rugged, highly-mobile, user-friendly, large-aperture tactical antennas supporting tri-band operations by utilizing interchangeable antenna feeds that can be rapidly installed by operators in the field; the cdl hawklink program for u.s. navy lamps helicopters, for which we are performing pre-production and testing of the ku-band tactical cdl; the multiband shipboard satellite communications terminal ( mssct ) program for the u.s. navy, for which we are providing wideband satellite communications terminal systems; the global positioning system next generation ground control segment ( ocx ) program, for which we provide design and engineering services for hardware, software and network infrastructure, including advanced ground antennas, advanced monitoring stations and interfaces to existing ground antennas; and the lightweight multiband satellite terminal ( lmst ) program for the u.s. marine corps, for which we provide mobile satellite communications terminals. significant new contract awards during fiscal 2008 included a five-year idiq contract, potentially worth $85 million, for the u.s. navy commercial broadband satellite program ( cbsp ) force level variant, for which we supply, for aircraft carriers and amphibious assault ships, broadband multiband satellite communications terminals that support essential mission requirements and provide high-speed internet access for as many as 5,000 military personnel onboard each aircraft carrier; and a five-year idiq contract, potentially worth $77 million, for the u.s. navy cbsp unit level variant, for which we supply, for frigates, cruisers and destroyers, broadband multiband satellite communications terminals that provide enhanced morale-related communications services such as high-speed internet access and video communications. 5 table of contents revenue and backlog: revenue for the defense communications and electronics segment increased 19 percent to $1,975 million in fiscal 2008 compared with $1,661 million in fiscal 2007, and was $1,293 million in fiscal 2006. segment operating income increased 23 percent to $599.8 million in fiscal 2008 compared with $487.1 million in fiscal 2007, and was $354.1 million in fiscal 2006. the defense communications and electronics segment contributed 37 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2008 compared with 39 percent in fiscal 2007 and 37 percent in fiscal 2006. the percentage of this segment revenue that was derived outside of the united states was approximately 21 percent in fiscal 2008 compared with 21 percent in fiscal 2007 and 24 percent in fiscal 2006. u.s. government customers, whether directly or through prime contractors, accounted for approximately 86 percent of this segment total revenue in fiscal 2008 compared with approximately 83 percent in fiscal 2007 and in fiscal 2006. for a general description of our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, including a discussion of revenue generated from cost-reimbursement versus fixed-price contracts, see item 1. business principal customers; government contracts of this annual report on form 10-k. in general, this segment domestic products are sold and serviced directly to customers through its sales organization and through established distribution channels. internationally, this segment markets and sells its products and services through regional sales offices and established distribution channels. see item 1. business international business of this annual report on form 10-k. the funded backlog of unfilled orders for this segment was $1,160 million at july 25, 2008 compared with $1,016 million at july 27, 2007 and $933 million at july 28, 2006. we expect to fill approximately 90 percent of this funded backlog during fiscal 2009, but we can give no assurance of such fulfillment. unfunded backlog for this segment was $223 million at july 25, 2008 compared with $148 million at july 27, 2007 and $278 million at july 28, 2006. additional information regarding this segment funded and unfunded backlog is provided under item 1. business funded and unfunded backlog of this annual report on form 10-k. for a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, see item 1. business principal customers; government contracts, item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this annual report on form 10-k. government communications systems in fiscal 2008, government communications systems was comprised of our civil programs, national intelligence programs and it services businesses. civil programs: serving primarily u.s. government civilian agencies, including the federal aviation administration ( faa ), census bureau, national oceanic and atmospheric administration ( noaa ), department of homeland security ( dhs ) and government printing office ( gpo ), we use our ability to implement and manage large, complex programs that integrate secure, advanced communications and information processing technologies in order to provide precise, highly reliable, secure high-speed communications and information networks that improve productivity and information processing for our customers. our networks and information systems for large-scale, geographically-dispersed enterprises offer advanced capabilities for collecting, processing, analyzing, interpreting, displaying, distributing, storing and retrieving data. our custom networks, systems and solutions include meteorological data processing systems; electronic archival systems; graphic information systems; telecommunications services systems; maritime communications systems, including worldwide turnkey broadband satellite and terrestrial network systems and managed services for the maritime community, remote land-based installations and autonomous (buoy) systems; and healthcare it enterprise intelligence solutions and services, including systems integration and collaboration, intelligent infrastructure, advanced visualization and display, and enterprise digital content management. for example, we are the prime contractor on the 15-year, $2.2 billion contract for the faa telecommunications infrastructure ( fti ) program to integrate and modernize the u.s. air traffic control system and infrastructure. fti is a modern, secure and efficient network that is providing voice, data and radar communications to 50,000 faa employees at more than 4,000 faa sites across the u.s., while reducing operating costs, enhancing network efficiency, reliability and security and improving service. we designed and deployed the new fti network, have successfully transitioned more than 90 percent of the faa legacy networks to the new fti network, and are providing on-going mission operations and support services. we are also working with the faa on other programs, including the voice switching and control system ( vscs ) program that allows air traffic controllers to establish critical ground-to-air and ground-to-ground communications links with pilots and other air traffic controllers, respectively; the weather and radar processor ( warp ) program that provides air traffic controllers with high-resolution graphical displays of integrated real-time next generation weather radar data; and the operational and supportability implementation system ( oasis ) program that provides integrated real-time weather and flight planning data for preflight weather briefings and in-flight updates. 6 table of contents we are also the prime contractor to the u.s. census bureau on two of its major programs. under the master address file/topologically integrated geographic encoding and referencing accuracy improvement project ( mtaip ), we have modernized two key census databases containing 175 million addresses for all u.s. residences and businesses and a database linking u.s. streets, rivers, railroads and other geographic features to global positioning system ( gps ) coordinates. for the field data collection automation ( fdca ) program awarded to us during fiscal 2006, we are integrating multiple automated systems and have developed a new wireless handheld device with integrated gps and secure communication capabilities that together are designed to enable census takers to input data in real time and securely transmit the information back to the census bureau in support of the 2010 census. we are also working with the gpo on its digital catalog database conversion project to develop its federal digital system, an it system in which content text, graphics, video, audio and other formats will be entered, authenticated, and catalogued according to gpo-selected metadata and standards, in order to digitally preserve and make publicly accessible in a one-stop online site a vast quantity of federal documents and information from all three branches of the u.s. government. in a new market for us healthcare it solutions the department of health and human services ( hhs ) awarded us a $6 million contract in the third quarter of fiscal 2008 to develop and integrate an open-source national health information exchange gateway solution that will enable federal healthcare agencies and healthcare providers to share patient information more quickly and easily, improving the quality of care and reducing costs. in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, we were selected for award of a seven-year contract, potentially worth $58 million, to provide the communications/navigation system for the next-generation space suit supporting the national aeronautics and space administration ( nasa ) constellation program. national intelligence programs: a significant portion of this business involves classified programs. while classified programs generally are not discussed in this annual report on form 10-k, the operating results relating to classified programs are included in our consolidated financial statements. we believe that the business risks associated with such programs do not differ materially from those of other u.s. government programs. serving primarily national intelligence and security agency customers, including nsa, the national reconnaissance office ( nro ) and the national geospatial-intelligence agency ( nga ), we provide integrated intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance ( isr ) solutions that improve situational awareness, data collection accuracy and product analysis by correlating near real-time mission data and intelligence reference data for display and analysis by strategic and tactical planners and decision makers. our isr systems help to integrate information across the analyst workflow, accelerating the movement of information that has been collected and processed. we strive to produce innovative and cost-effective isr solutions that provide our customers with information dominance for battle-space superiority. for example, our image processing capabilities extend from algorithm development through delivery of operations systems, and we are providing advanced image exploitation and dissemination solutions for isr applications by advancing image processing, image data fusion, display technologies and digital product generation techniques. these technologies range from new techniques for merging and displaying imagery to automated techniques for image screening, cueing and remote visualization. also, our mapping and visualization capabilities provide complete, accurate and timely knowledge about the threat, the terrain, the status and the location of single or multiple foe and friendly forces and their support by utilizing data, pictures, voice and video drawn from vast storage banks or from real-time input which can be transmitted around the world in fractions of a second. in addition, we have industry-leading capabilities in the architecture, design and development of highly-specialized satellite antennas, structures, phased arrays and on-board processors, which are used to enable next-generation satellite systems to provide the u.s. military and intelligence communities with strategic and tactical advantage. we are also a leader in the design and development of antenna and reflector technologies for commercial space telecommunications applications. further, our wireless products capabilities include developing and supplying state-of-the-art wireless surveillance and tracking equipment to the u.s. government and law enforcement communities for vehicular, man-portable, airborne, remote/unattended and system-level solutions for both passive and active missions. during fiscal 2008, we were awarded several new classified programs and follow-on contracts. during fiscal 2008, we also were awarded several non-classified contracts. we were awarded a two-year contract in the third quarter of fiscal 2008 to provide satellite reflector antennas for the sirius satellite radio fm 6 satellite expected to be launched in the fourth quarter of calendar 2010. in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, we were awarded a ten-year contract (one base year with nine option years) valued at more than $40 million to supply support and engineering services for multiple space-related ground systems for a u.s. air force base. ongoing previously awarded programs 7 table of contents include a contract with space systems/loral to design and construct unfurlable mesh reflectors for commercial satellites; a contract to develop mission management software for security analysts; and a contract under the global geospatial intelligence program to provide imagery intelligence and photogrammetry, mapping and charting information, and three-dimensional high-resolution image models of harbors, cities, airfields and other terrain. it services: we provide it and communications services, products, enterprise solutions and advanced systems to u.s. government defense, intelligence, homeland security and civil customers; state and local governments; and healthcare organizations and institutions. we significantly expanded our it services business area through our acquisition of multimax incorporated ( multimax ) in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, broadening our customer base and providing new growth opportunities through multimax key positions on major contracts such as the navy/marine corps intranet ( nmci ) program and certain government-wide acquisition contracts ( gwacs ), including network centric solutions ( netcents ), eagle, ites-2s and firstsource, which are it procurement vehicles broadly accessible to u.s. government agencies. with approximately 3,000 professionals currently operating at locations worldwide, we support large-scale, mission-critical networks with technical expertise and strong customer commitment through the full technology lifecycle, including network design, deployment, operations and ongoing support. our services include it outsourcing (data entry, network administration, system operations and maintenance, and procurement and logistics support); enterprise management (systems engineering and integration, network design, capacity expansions and information assurance and security); and enterprise-wide it planning and architecture services. we also offer customized it support, operations and management services that reflect rigorous service-level requirements and performance-based incentives and disincentives, allowing public-sector organizations to focus on their core mission responsibilities while maximizing the return on their it and communications infrastructure investments. in addition, we develop products and technologies that support advanced, network-centric communications, including the os/comet satellite telemetry tracking and control software that is the command and control product of choice for iridium , gps, multiple government geosynchronous ( geo ) and low earth orbit ( leo ) satellites. as examples, we are a tier one subcontractor on the nmci program, the largest it outsourcing contract ever issued by the u.s. government, which will eventually provide voice, data and video communications to more than 500,000 navy and marine corps users. we provide operations, maintenance and support services for nro global communications and information systems network (the patriot program) in space and on the ground under a ten-year contract, potentially worth $1 billion, in support of nro global analyst community. we provide technical support services and it systems and service modernization in support of more than 230 u.s. embassies and consulates around the world under a contract awarded by the u.s. department of state, bureau of consular affairs (the state 6 program). we provide system maintenance and engineering for the defense information systems agency ( disa ) crisis management system, and we staff the u.s. postal service maintenance technical support center in oklahoma. we are also making it easier for dhs to purchase it products through the firstsource gwac vehicle. additionally, we operate and maintain the communications functions for the u.s. air force 50 th space wing satellite control network ( afscn ), a global, continuously operational network of ground stations, operational control nodes and communications links that support launch and command and control of various space programs managed by the dod and other national security space organizations. the afscn is responsible for providing readiness, launch, early orbit/on-orbit support, and anomaly resolution for a variety of military satellite constellations, including more than 140 deployed satellites and other space vehicles such as ballistic missiles and the space shuttle. in calendar 2000, we were awarded a contract under the operational space services and support ( osss ) program, for which we have been providing operations, maintenance and support services to the afscn and gps ground networks, including organizational level maintenance at all ground stations assigned to the afscn and gps networks. in calendar 2002, we were awarded a contract under the mission communications operations and maintenance ( mcom ) program, for which we have been providing operations and maintenance services for the afscn communications functions at schriever afb in colorado and onizuka afs in california. in january 2008, we were awarded a 6.5-year contract, which could be worth as much as $410 million, under the network and space operations and maintenance ( nsom ) program with the u.s. air force 50 th space wing in colorado springs to provide operations and maintenance support to the afscn at locations around the world. the nsom program includes a majority of the osss and mcom programs and supersedes those programs. during the first quarter of fiscal 2008, we were among a number of companies awarded the five-year alliant gwac by the general services administration ( gsa ), which allows us to provide integrated it product and service solutions to support a number of u.s. government agencies. we received a six-month, $22 million follow-on order in the third quarter of fiscal 2008 from the department of state to modernize it architecture for the bureau of consular affairs. in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, we were awarded a three-year, 8 table of contents $20 million it services contract for a next-generation tactical video capture system ( tvcs ) that will support training at various u.s. marine corps locations across the u.s. and abroad, and we were also awarded our second contract for healthcare it solutions, a new market for us. this is a $12 million contract for the u.s. army dental command information management technology division, for which we will provide local operations and support to the u.s. army dental command at ft. sam houston, texas and other army dental clinics at locations around the world. revenue and backlog: revenue for the government communications systems segment increased 32 percent to $2,000 million in fiscal 2008 compared with $1,513 million in fiscal 2007, and was $1,328 million in fiscal 2006. segment operating income increased 7 percent to $149.8 million in fiscal 2008 compared with $140.0 million in fiscal 2007, and was $141.4 million in fiscal 2006. this segment contributed 38 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2008 compared with 36 percent in fiscal 2007 and 38 percent in fiscal 2006. in fiscal 2008, approximately 12 percent of the revenue for this segment was under contracts with prime contractors and approximately 88 percent was under direct contracts with customers, compared with approximately 19 percent of revenue under contracts with prime contractors and approximately 81 percent of revenue under direct contracts with customers in fiscal 2007. some of this segment more significant programs in fiscal 2008 included the fti program, the fdca program, the patriot program, the netcents program, the nmci program and various classified programs. the largest program by revenue represented approximately 11 percent of this segment revenue in fiscal 2008, compared with approximately 16 percent in fiscal 2007. the 10 largest programs by revenue represented approximately 55 percent of this segment revenue in fiscal 2008, approximately 50 percent in fiscal 2007 and approximately 46 percent in fiscal 2006. in fiscal 2008, this segment had a diverse portfolio of over 250 programs. historically, this diversity has provided a stable backlog and reduced potential risks that come from reductions in funding or changes in customer priorities. in fiscal 2008, u.s. government customers, whether directly or through prime contractors, accounted for approximately 96 percent of this segment total revenue compared with approximately 93 percent in fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, with the faa accounting for 15 percent of this segment fiscal 2008 revenue. for a general description of our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, including a discussion of revenue generated from cost-reimbursement versus fixed-price contracts, see item 1. business principal customers; government contracts of this annual report on form 10-k. the funded backlog of unfilled orders for this segment was $111 million at july 25, 2008 compared with $153 million at july 27, 2007 and $152 million at july 28, 2006. we expect to fill approximately 92 percent of this funded backlog during fiscal 2009, but we can give no assurance of such fulfillment. unfunded backlog for this segment was $4,066 million at july 25, 2008 compared with $3,999 million at july 27, 2007 and $3,881 million at july 28, 2006. additional information regarding funded and unfunded backlog for this segment is provided under item 1. business funded and unfunded backlog of this annual report on form 10-k. for a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, see item 1. business principal customers; government contracts, item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this annual report on form 10-k. broadcast communications broadcast communications hardware and software products, systems and services offer a comprehensive, single-source approach to delivering interoperable workflow capabilities and solutions spanning the entire broadcast value chain, including content creation, management, distribution and delivery, for broadcast, cable, satellite, telecommunications and other media content providers. this segment serves the global digital and analog media markets, providing infrastructure and networking products and solutions, media and workflow solutions, and television and radio transmission equipment and systems. the current trend and future of broadcast media involves digitizing content and transporting it simultaneously over many different networks to many types of devices. the need to create, manage and ultimately deliver digital media content is driving an infrastructure upgrade cycle for the media industry. we are supporting customers as they expand services for high definition ( hd ) tv, ip tv, video-on-demand and interactive tv. recent acquisitions and a series of new products have established broadcast communications as a provider of end-to-end solutions for the digital and hd infrastructure build-out worldwide. these acquisitions include encoda systems holdings, inc. ( encoda ) in fiscal 2005; leitch technology corporation ( leitch ), optimal solutions, inc. ( osi ) and the aastra digital video business ( aastra digital video ) of aastra technologies in fiscal 2006; and zandar technologies plc ( zandar ) in fiscal 2008. zandar is a dublin, ireland-headquartered developer and provider of high-quality multi-image display processors for television broadcast and professional video markets. zandar compact, scalable systems, such as the predator ii tm and qs100 tm series, and our larger-format centrio tm systems are complementary product lines that collectively represent a complete platform for multi-image display processors, 9 table of contents or multiviewer products. new products and recent product advancements include the nexio amp tm system, a one-stop solution for creating, scheduling and airing complete tv channels in hd or standard definition ( sd ), which combines a high-quality playout server, animation, live video, video clips, audio, real-time external data feeds and master control branding functionality in a single turnkey system; the h-class tm media software suite, a unified system of interoperable broadcast and media applications based on open standards, with a network-, content- and service-agnostic approach, which support customers core services and business operations, make data exchange and workflow more efficient and facilitate adding services that can lead to new revenue streams; and a family of three gigabit per second ( 3 gb/s ) solutions comprised of a complete set of interoperable devices for creating a true 3 gb/s infrastructure, which allows broadcasters to make infrastructure investments now and still migrate to the emerging 1080p hd format. infrastructure and networking solutions: our infrastructure and networking solutions offerings include sd and hd products and systems that enable media companies to streamline workflow from production through transmission. we provide a comprehensive, next-generation portfolio of signal processors, routers, master control and branding systems, network monitoring and control software, and test and measurement instruments that support content throughout the workflow application chain. we also provide advanced multi-image display processors and state-of-the-art broadcast graphics and digital signage systems that change the way broadcasters view and manage content and provide broadcasters with options for presenting their brands. we also provide highly differentiated network access and multiplex platforms, including the harris intraplex and netvx tm solutions, which offer customized integrated management and distribution applications for any content across any connection to support television, government video and public safety applications. products also include the platinum tm large router for mixed video and audio signal routing; the iconmaster tm digital master control system; the videotek line of precision test and measurement instruments; the larger-format centrio tm multiviewer systems; the compact, scalable predator ii tm and qs100 tm series of multiviewer systems; the inscriber line of graphics and titling products; and the infocaster line of digital signage systems. media and workflow: our media and workflow solutions offerings enable customers to manage their digital media workflow through a portfolio of software solutions for advertising, media management (traffic, billing and program scheduling), broadband, digital asset management, and play-out automation, and to transition into an it workflow by using servers to manage content flow, storage and other key facets of an increasingly important file-based broadcast world. we offer modular, standards-based solutions with open application programming interfaces ( apis ) for ease of integration and future scalability. products include the h-class tm content delivery platform, osi traffic tm software and the invenio tm digital asset management solution. the h-class tm content delivery platform represents an integrated approach to content management at the enterprise level from ingest to distribution over a variety of devices or networks. h-class provides broadcasters and other media, entertainment and content distribution customers with a means to integrate disparate processes from creation to consumption into a single, modular system. products also include the nexio tm family of scalable, interoperable video servers and velocity tm family of editing controllers that employ open standards to accelerate time-to-air and reduce the costs associated with content acquisition, production, distribution and media management. television and radio transmission systems: we develop, manufacture and supply digital and analog television and radio transmission systems for delivery of rich media over wireless broadcast terrestrial networks on a worldwide basis, including global broadcast and mobile tv applications. we can provide single products or end-to-end systems, including nationwide networks with hundreds of transmitters or large, international systems. our television and radio transmission systems solutions are scalable to meet the needs of broadcasters of all sizes. we are a leader in television transition from analog to digital technology. we provided the nation first advanced digital television ( dtv ) transmitter as well as the first commercial dtv application and are a leader in technology for the u.s. digital standard known as atsc and the european digital standard dvb-t . we continue to play a leading role in assisting local television broadcasters and network operators implement transmission solutions, including solutions based on atsc and dvb-t and other digital standards and all major approaches to broadcast mobile tv. in fiscal 2007, we introduced with lg electronics inc. the jointly-developed mph tm in-band mobile dtv system ( mobile-pedestrian-handheld or mph ), a new technology capable of providing dtv signals and extending over-the-air broadcast tv signals beyond customary tv viewing at home to mobile, pedestrian and other handheld devices (such as mobile phones or laptop computers). we are also a leader in the transition from analog to digital radio. product offerings address the u.s. digital standard called iboc (in-band/on-channel), which is referred to in the market as hd radio , as well as international digital standards including dab and drm . the rollout of hd radio in the u.s. continues to progress with approximately 1,700 stations currently on-air with hd radio. radio transmission products include the flexstar tm family, which provides a bandwidth-efficient bitstream so broadcasters can offer supplemental audio 10 table of contents and data capability along with the main program stream. this enables broadcasters to develop new revenue-generating opportunities, including multiple programs on the same channel, 5.1 surround sound, on-demand traffic, weather and sports reports, store-and-play capabilities and real-time navigation. revenue and backlog: revenue for the broadcast communications segment increased 7 percent to $643 million in fiscal 2008 compared with $600 million in fiscal 2007, and was $538 million in fiscal 2006. segment operating income was $33.8 million in fiscal 2008 compared with $11.9 million in fiscal 2007 and $22.8 million in fiscal 2006. the broadcast communications segment contributed 12 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2008 compared with 14 percent in fiscal 2007 and 15 percent in fiscal 2006. the percentage of this segment revenue that was derived outside of the united states was approximately 47 percent in fiscal 2008 compared with 46 percent in fiscal 2007 and 41 percent in fiscal 2006. principal customers for broadcast communications products and services include domestic and international television and radio broadcast stations; cable and satellite networks and service providers; telecommunications providers; federal agencies; public safety entities; advertising agencies; and content originators. no single customer accounted for more than 2 percent of fiscal 2008 revenue for the broadcast communications segment. in general, this segment domestic products are sold and serviced directly to customers through its sales organization and through established distribution channels. internationally, this segment markets and sells its products and services through regional sales offices and established distribution channels. see item 1. business international business of this annual report on form 10-k. the backlog of unfilled orders for this segment was $328 million at july 25, 2008 compared with $323 million at july 27, 2007 and $240 million at july 28, 2006. we expect to fill approximately 54 percent of this backlog during fiscal 2009, but we can give no assurance of such fulfillment. for a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, see item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this annual report on form 10-k. harris stratex networks in the third quarter of fiscal 2007, we combined our former microwave communications division with stratex, a publicly-traded provider of high-speed wireless transmission systems, to form harris stratex networks. harris stratex networks, our majority-owned, publicly-traded subsidiary listed on the nasdaq global market under the symbol hstx, is a global communications solutions company offering end-to-end wireless transmission solutions for mobile and fixed-wireless service providers and private networks. as of june 27, 2008, we owned approximately 56 percent of harris stratex networks outstanding stock. following the combination, our business segment formerly referred to as microwave communications is now referred to as harris stratex networks and includes the results of the combined business for periods following the combination. harris stratex networks is a global independent supplier of turnkey wireless transmission network solutions. it offers reliable, flexible, scalable and cost-efficient wireless transmission network solutions, including microwave radio systems and network management software, which are backed by comprehensive services and support. harris stratex networks designs, manufactures and sells a range of wireless transmission networking products, solutions and services to customers in more than 135 countries around the world, including mobile and fixed telephone service providers, private network operators, government agencies, transportation and utility companies, public safety agencies and broadcast system operators. harris stratex networks product solutions offerings include point-to-point digital microwave radio systems for mobile system access, backhaul, trunking and license-exempt applications, supporting new network deployments, network expansion and capacity upgrades. harris stratex networks provides its products and services principally to the north america microwave, international microwave and network operations markets. north america microwave: harris stratex networks serves the north america microwave market by offering microwave radio products and services to major national carriers and other cellular network operators, public safety operators and other government agencies, systems integrators, transportation and utility companies and other private network operators within north america. a large part of the north american microwave market is comprised of the cellular backhaul and public safety markets. international microwave: harris stratex networks serves the international microwave market by offering microwave radio products and services to regional and national carriers and other cellular network operators, public safety operators, government and defense agencies and other private network operators in every region outside of north america. its wireless transmission systems deliver regional and country-wide backbone in developing nations, where microwave radio installations provide 21st-century communications rapidly and economically. rural communities, areas with rugged terrain and regions with extreme temperatures benefit from the ability to build an advanced, affordable communications infrastructure despite these challenges. 11 table of contents network operations: harris stratex networks serves the network operations market by offering a wide range of software-based network management solutions for network operators worldwide, from element management to turnkey, end-to-end network management and service assurance solutions for virtually any type of communications or information network including broadband, wireline, wireless and converged networks. harris stratex networks develops, designs, produces, sells and services network management systems, including the netboss product line, for these applications. in general, wireless transmission networks are constructed using microwave radios and other equipment to connect cell sites, switching systems, land mobile radio systems, wireline transmission systems and other fixed-access facilities and other communications systems. wireless networks range in size from a single transmission link connecting two buildings to complex networks comprised of thousands of wireless connections. the architecture of a network is influenced by several factors, including the available radio frequency spectrum, coordination of frequencies with existing infrastructure, application requirements, environmental factors and local geography. for many applications, microwave systems offer a lower-cost, highly-reliable and more easily deployable alternative to competing wireline transmission media, such as fiber, copper or coaxial cable. harris stratex networks principal product families of licensed point-to-point microwave radios include eclipse tm , an ip-enabled platform for nodal wireless transmission systems, and truepoint , a platform for high-performance point-to-point wireless communications. the eclipse product line combines wireless transmission functions with network processing node functions, including many functions that, for non-nodal products, would have to be purchased separately. system functions include voice, data and video transport, node management, multiplexing, routing and cross-connection. eclipse is designed to simplify complex networks and lower the total cost of ownership over the product life. with frequency coverage from 5 to 38 gigahertz, low-to-high capacity operation and traditional time-division multiplexing and ethernet transmission capabilities, eclipse is designed to support a wide range of long- and short-haul applications. eclipse is software-configurable, enabling easy capacity upgrades, and gives users the ability to plan and deploy networks and adapt to changing conditions at minimal cost and disruption. the truepoint product family offers full plug-and-play, software programmable microwave radio configuration. it delivers service from 4 to 180 megabits per second capacity at frequencies ranging from 6 to 38 gigahertz. truepoint is designed to meet the current and future needs of network operators, including mobile, private network, government and access service providers. the unique architecture of the core platform reduces both capital expenditures and life cycle costs, while meeting international and north american standards. the software-based architecture enables migration from traditional microwave access applications to higher-capacity transport interconnections. harris stratex networks also offers license-exempt, point-to-point microwave radio product families. harris stratex networks network management product families, including netboss, offer a broad set of choices for all levels of network management, from enterprise-wide management and service assurance to element management. netboss is a family of network management and service assurance solutions for managing multi-vendor, multi-technology communications networks. netboss supports wireless and wireline networks of many types, offering fault management, performance management, service activation and assurance, billing mediation and operational support system integration. as a modular, off-the-shelf product, it enables customers to implement management systems immediately or gradually, as their needs dictate. netboss xe offers advanced element management. netboss products are optimized to work seamlessly with harris stratex networks digital microwave radios, such as the truepoint family, but can also be customized to manage products based on any network or computing technology. revenue and backlog: revenue for the harris stratex networks segment increased 41 percent to $718 million in fiscal 2008 compared with $508 million in fiscal 2007, and was $349 million in fiscal 2006. this segment had an operating loss of $28.5 million in fiscal 2008 compared with operating income of $146.9 million in fiscal 2007 and an operating loss of $19.6 million in fiscal 2006. this segment contributed 14 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2008 compared with 12 percent in fiscal 2007 and 10 percent in fiscal 2006. this segment had revenue from a single external customer that exceeded 10 percent of this segment total revenue during each of fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2006, but not during fiscal 2007. the percentage of this segment revenue that was derived outside of the united states was approximately 73 percent in fiscal 2008 compared with 66 percent in fiscal 2007 and 57 percent in fiscal 2006. this segment generally sells its north american products and services directly to customers through its sales organization and through established distribution channels. in international markets, this segment markets and sells its products and services through regional sales offices and established distribution channels, using agents and distributors. see item 1. business international business of this annual report on form 10-k. 12 table of contents the backlog of unfilled orders for this segment was $412 million at july 25, 2008 compared with $232 million at july 27, 2007 and $164 million at july 28, 2006. harris stratex networks expects to fill substantially all of this backlog during fiscal 2009, but we can give no assurance of such fulfillment. for a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, see item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this annual report on form 10-k. international business revenue from products exported from the united states (including foreign military sales) or manufactured abroad was $1,283.7 million (24 percent of our total revenue) in fiscal 2008 compared with $964.4 million (23 percent of our total revenue) in fiscal 2007 and $746.5 million (21 percent of our total revenue) in fiscal 2006. our international sales include both direct exports from the united states and sales from foreign subsidiaries. most of the international sales are derived from the harris stratex networks, defense communications and electronics and broadcast communications segments. direct export sales are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars, whereas sales from foreign subsidiaries are generally denominated in the local currency of the subsidiary. exports from the united states, principally to europe, africa, canada, latin america, the middle east and asia, totaled $594.1 million (approximately 46 percent of our international revenue) in fiscal 2008 compared with $613.9 million (64 percent of our international revenue) in fiscal 2007 and $418.0 million (56 percent of our international revenue) in fiscal 2006. the percentage of revenue represented by foreign operations was 13 percent in fiscal 2008 compared with 8 percent in fiscal 2007 and 9 percent in fiscal 2006. the percentage of long-lived assets represented by foreign operations was 26 percent as of june 27, 2008 compared with 28 percent as of june 29, 2007 and 24 percent as of june 30, 2006. financial information regarding our domestic and international operations is contained in note 2 3 : business segments in the notes and is incorporated herein by reference. our principal international manufacturing facilities are located in canada and the united kingdom. the majority of our international marketing activities are conducted through subsidiaries which operate in canada, europe, central and south america and asia. we have also established international marketing organizations and several regional sales offices. reference is made to exhibit 21 subsidiaries of the registrant of this annual report on form 10-k for further information regarding our international subsidiaries. we utilize indirect sales channels, including dealers, distributors and sales representatives, in the marketing and sale of some lines of products and equipment, both domestically and internationally. these independent representatives may buy for resale or, in some cases, solicit orders from commercial or governmental customers for direct sales by us. prices to the ultimate customer in many instances may be recommended or established by the independent representative and may be above or below our list prices. our dealers and distributors generally receive a discount from our list prices and may mark up those prices in setting the final sales prices paid by the customer. revenue from indirect sales channels in fiscal 2008 represented 7 percent of our total revenue and approximately 28 percent of our international revenue, compared with revenue from indirect sales channels in fiscal 2007 representing 9 percent of our total revenue and 32 percent of our international revenue, and revenue from indirect sales channels in fiscal 2006 representing 6 percent of our total revenue and 23 percent of our international revenue. fiscal 2008 international revenue came from a large number of foreign countries, and no single country accounted for 3 percent or more of our total revenue. some of our exports are paid for by letters of credit, with the balance carried either on an open account or installment note basis. advance payments, progress payments or other similar payments received prior to, or upon shipment often cover most of the related costs incurred. significant foreign government contracts generally require us to provide performance guarantees. in order to stay competitive in international markets, we also sometimes enter into recourse and vendor financing arrangements to facilitate sales to certain customers. the particular economic, social and political conditions for business conducted outside the u.s. differ from those encountered by domestic businesses. our management believes that the overall business risk for the international business as a whole is somewhat greater than that faced by our domestic operations as a whole. a description of the types of risks to which we are subject in international business is contained in item 1a. risk factors of this annual report on form 10-k. nevertheless, in the opinion of our management, these risks are largely offset by the diversification of the international business and the protection provided by letters of credit and advance payments. competition we operate in highly competitive markets that are sensitive to technological advances. although successful product and systems development is not necessarily dependent on substantial financial resources, many of our competitors in each of our businesses are larger than we are and can maintain higher levels of expenditures for research and development. in each of our businesses we concentrate on the market opportunities that our 13 table of contents management believes are compatible with our resources, overall technological capabilities and objectives. principal competitive factors in these businesses are cost-effectiveness; product quality and reliability; technological capabilities; service; past performance; ability to develop and implement complex, integrated solutions; ability to meet delivery schedules; and the effectiveness of third-party sales channels in international markets. within the it services market, there is intense competition among many companies, and this market is generally more labor intensive with competitive margin rates over contract periods of shorter duration. the ability to compete in the it services market depends on a number of factors, including the capability to deploy skilled professionals at competitive prices across the diverse spectrum of the it services market. in the defense communications and electronics segment, principal competitors include bae systems, boeing, general dynamics, itt industries, l-3 communications, lockheed martin, northrop grumman, raytheon, rockwell collins, rohde schwarz, tadiran and thales. in the government communications systems segment, principal competitors include accenture, bae systems, boeing, computer sciences, general dynamics, itt industries, l-3 communications, lockheed martin, northrop grumman, raytheon, rockwell collins and saic. consolidation among u.s. defense and aerospace companies has resulted in a reduction in the number of principal prime contractors. as a result of this consolidation, in our defense communications and electronics and government communications systems segments we frequently partner or are involved in subcontracting and teaming relationships with companies that are, from time to time, competitors on other programs. in the broadcast communications segment, principal competitors include avid, broadcast electronics, chyron, evertz, harmonic, microsystems, miranda, nautel, nec, omneon, omnibus, pilat media, rad systems, rohde schwarz, sony broadcast, tandberg television, tektronix, thomson/grass valley, thomson/thales, vizrt and wide orbit, as well as other smaller companies and divisions of large companies. we believe that our broad product offering and total content delivery solutions are key competitive strengths for this segment. in the harris stratex networks segment, principal competitors include ericsson, nec, alcatel-lucent, nokia-siemens, ceragon and eltek-nera, as well as other smaller companies. several of this segment competitors are original equipment manufacturers or systems integrators through which the segment sometimes distributes and sells products and services to end-users. we believe that network and systems engineering support and service are key competitive strengths for this segment. principal customers; government contracts sales to the u.s. government, which is our only customer accounting for 2 percent or more of our total revenue, were 68 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2008 compared with 66 percent in each of fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006. additional information regarding customers for each of our segments is provided under item 1. business description of business by segment for fiscal 2008 of this annual report on form 10-k. our u.s. government sales are predominantly derived from contracts with agencies of, and prime contractors to, the u.s. government. most of the sales of the government communications systems segment and of the defense programs area of the defense communications and electronics segment are made directly or indirectly to the u.s. government under contracts or subcontracts containing standard government contract clauses providing for redetermination of profits, if applicable, and for termination for the convenience of the u.s. government or for default based upon performance. these u.s. government contracts and subcontracts include both cost-reimbursement and fixed-price contracts. our cost-reimbursement contracts provide for the reimbursement of allowable costs plus the payment of a fee. our cost-reimbursement contracts fall into three basic types: (i) cost-plus fixed-fee contracts, which provide for the payment of a fixed fee irrespective of the final cost of performance; (ii) cost-plus incentive-fee contracts, which provide for increases or decreases in the fee, within specified limits, based upon actual results compared with contractual targets relating to factors such as cost, performance and delivery schedule; and (iii) cost-plus award-fee contracts, which provide for the payment of an award fee determined at the discretion of the customer based upon the performance of the contractor against pre-established performance criteria. under cost-reimbursement contracts, we are reimbursed periodically for allowable costs and are paid a portion of the fee based on contract progress. some overhead costs have been made partially or wholly unallowable for reimbursement by statute or regulation. examples are certain merger and acquisition costs, lobbying costs, charitable contributions and certain litigation defense costs. our fixed-price contracts are either firm fixed-price contracts or fixed-price incentive contracts. under firm fixed-price contracts, we agree to perform a specific scope of work for a fixed price and, as a result, benefit from 14 table of contents cost savings and carry the burden of cost overruns. under fixed-price incentive contracts, we share with the u.s. government both savings accrued from contracts performed for less than target costs as well as costs incurred in excess of targets up to a negotiated ceiling price (which is higher than the target cost), but carry the entire burden of costs exceeding the negotiated ceiling price. accordingly, under such incentive contracts, profit may also be adjusted up or down depending upon whether specified performance objectives are met. under firm fixed-price and fixed-price incentive contracts, we usually receive either milestone payments equaling 100 percent of the contract price or monthly progress payments from the u.s. government in amounts equaling 75 percent of costs incurred under the contract. the remaining amounts, including profits or incentive fees, are billed upon delivery and final acceptance of end items and deliverables under the contract. fixed-price contracts generally have higher profit margins than cost-reimbursement contracts. production contracts are mainly fixed-price contracts, and development contracts are generally cost-reimbursement contracts. in fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, approximately 35 percent, 33 percent and 38 percent, respectively, of the total combined revenue of our defense communications and electronics and government communications systems segments was from fixed-price contracts. gwac and idiq contracts, which can include task orders for each contract type, require us to compete both for the initial contract and then for individual task or delivery orders under such contracts. as stated above, u.s. government contracts are terminable for the convenience of the u.s. government, as well as for default based on performance. companies supplying goods and services to the u.s. government are dependent on congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of funds and may be affected by changes in u.s. government policies resulting from various military, political and international developments. long-term government contracts and related orders are subject to cancellation if appropriations for subsequent performance periods become unavailable. under contracts terminable for the convenience of the u.s. government, a contractor is entitled to receive payments for its allowable costs and, in general, the proportionate share of fees or earnings for the work done. contracts that are terminable for default generally provide that the u.s. government pays only for the work it has accepted and may require the contractor to pay for the incremental cost of reprocurement and may hold the contractor liable for damages. in many cases, there is also uncertainty relating to the complexity of designs, necessity for design improvements and difficulty in forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work. under many u.s. government contracts, we are required to maintain facility and personnel security clearances complying with dod and other federal agency requirements. for further discussion of risks relating to u.s. government contracts, see item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this annual report on form 10-k. funded and unfunded backlog our total company-wide funded and unfunded backlog was approximately $6,300 million at july 25, 2008 compared with $5,871 million at july 27, 2007 and $5,641 million at july 28, 2006. the funded portion of this backlog was approximately $2,011 million at july 25, 2008 compared with $1,724 million at july 27, 2007 and $1,482 million at july 28, 2006. the determination of backlog involves substantial estimating, particularly with respect to customer requirements contracts and development and production contracts of a cost-reimbursement or incentive nature. we define funded backlog as unfilled firm orders for products and services for which funding has been authorized and, in the case of u.s. government agencies, appropriated. unfunded backlog is primarily unfilled firm and expected follow-on orders that have not yet met our established funding criteria. our established funding criteria require both authorization by the customer as well as our management determination that there is little or no risk of the authorized funding being rescinded. we do not include potential task or delivery orders under idiq contracts in our backlog. in fiscal 2009, we expect to fill approximately 86 percent of our total funded backlog as of july 25, 2008. however, we can give no assurance of such fulfillment or that our funded backlog will become revenue in any particular period, if at all. backlog is subject to delivery delays and program cancellations, which are beyond our control. additional information with regard to the backlog of each of our segments is provided under item 1. business description of business by segment for fiscal 2008 of this annual report on form 10-k. research, development and engineering research, development and engineering expenditures totaled approximately $1,007 million in fiscal 2008, $924 million in fiscal 2007 and $824 million in fiscal 2006. company-sponsored research and product development costs, which included research and development for commercial products and independent research and development related to government products and services, as well as concept formulation studies and bid and proposal efforts, were approximately $275 million in fiscal 2008, $235 million in fiscal 2007 and $198 million in fiscal 2006. a 15 table of contents portion of our independent research and development costs are allocated among contracts and programs in process under u.s. government contractual arrangements. company-sponsored research and product development costs not otherwise allocable are charged to expense when incurred. the portion of total research, development and engineering expenditures that was not company-sponsored was funded by the u.s. government and is included in our revenue. customer-sponsored research and development was $732 million in fiscal 2008, $689 million in fiscal 2007 and $626 million in fiscal 2006. company-sponsored research is directed to the development of new products and to building technological capability in selected communications and electronic systems markets. u.s. government-funded research helps strengthen and broaden our technical capabilities. all of our segments maintain their own engineering and new product development departments, with scientific assistance provided by advanced-technology departments. as of june 27, 2008, we employed nearly 7,000 engineers and scientists and are continuing efforts to make the technologies developed in any of our business segments available for all other business segments. patents and other intellectual property we consider our patents and other intellectual property, in the aggregate, to constitute an important asset. we own a large and valuable portfolio of patents, trade secrets, know-how, confidential information, trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property. we also license intellectual property to and from third parties. as of june 27, 2008, we held approximately 1,020 u.s. patents and 800 foreign patents, and had approximately 580 u.s. patent applications pending and 1,240 foreign patent applications pending. unpatented research, development and engineering skills also make an important contribution to our business. while our intellectual property rights in the aggregate are important to our business and the operations of our business segments, we do not consider our business or any business segment to be materially dependent upon any single patent, license or other intellectual property right, or any group of related patents, licenses or other intellectual property rights. we are engaged in a proactive patent licensing program and have entered into a number of licenses and cross-license agreements, some of which generate royalty income. although existing license agreements have generated income in past years and may do so in the future, there can be no assurances we will enter into additional income-producing license agreements. from time to time we engage in litigation to protect our patents and other intellectual property. any of our patents, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights and other proprietary rights could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or may not provide competitive advantages. with regard to patents relating to our defense communications and electronics segment or our government communications systems segment, the u.s. government often has an irrevocable, non-exclusive, royalty-free license, pursuant to which the u.s. government may use or authorize others to use the inventions covered by such patents. pursuant to similar arrangements, the u.s. government may consent to our use of inventions covered by patents owned by other persons. numerous trademarks used on or in connection with our products are also considered to be a valuable asset. environmental and other regulations our facilities and operations are subject to numerous domestic and international laws and regulations designed to protect the environment, particularly with regard to wastes and emissions. the applicable environmental laws and regulations are common within the industries and markets in which we operate and serve. we believe that we have complied with these requirements and that such compliance has not had a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. based upon currently-available information, we do not expect expenditures to protect the environment and to comply with current environmental laws and regulations over the next several years to have a material impact on our competitive or financial position, but we can give no assurance that such expenditures will not exceed current expectations. if future laws and regulations contain more stringent requirements than presently anticipated, actual expenditures may be higher than our present estimates of those expenditures. we have installed waste treatment facilities and pollution control equipment to satisfy legal requirements and to achieve our waste minimization and prevention goals. we did not spend material amounts on environmental capital projects in fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 or fiscal 2006. a portion of our environmental expenditures relates to discontinued operations for which we have retained certain environmental liabilities. we currently expect that amounts to be spent for environmental-related capital projects will not be material in fiscal 2009. these amounts may increase in future years. additional information regarding environmental and regulatory matters is set forth in item 3. legal proceedings of this annual report on form 10-k and in note 1: significant accounting policies in the notes. electronic products are subject to governmental environmental regulation in a number of jurisdictions. equipment produced by our broadcast communications and harris stratex networks segments, in particular, is subject to domestic and international requirements requiring end-of-life management and/or restricting materials in 16 table of contents products delivered to customers, including the european union directive 2002/96/ec on waste electrical and electronic equipment ( weee ) and directive 2002/95/ec on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment ( rohs ). other jurisdictions have adopted similar legislation. such requirements typically are not applicable to most equipment produced by our defense communications and electronics and government communications systems segments. we believe that we have complied with such rules and regulations, where applicable, with respect to our existing products sold into such jurisdictions. we intend to comply with such rules and regulations with respect to our future products. broadcast and wireless communications (whether tv, radio or telecommunications) are also subject to governmental regulation. equipment produced by our broadcast communications and harris stratex networks segments, in particular, is subject to domestic and international requirements to avoid interference among users of radio and television frequencies and to permit interconnection of telecommunications equipment. we believe that we have complied with such rules and regulations with respect to our existing products, and we intend to comply with such rules and regulations with respect to our future products. governmental reallocation of the frequency spectrum also could impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. raw materials and supplies because of the diversity of our products and services, as well as the wide geographic dispersion of our facilities, we use numerous sources for the wide array of raw materials (such as electronic components, printed circuit boards, metals and plastics) needed for our operations and for our products. we are dependent upon suppliers and subcontractors for a large number of components and subsystems and the ability of our suppliers and subcontractors to adhere to customer or regulatory materials restrictions and to meet performance and quality specifications and delivery schedules. in some instances, we are dependent upon one or a few sources, either because of the specialized nature of a particular item or because of local content preference requirements pursuant to which we operate on a given project. while we have been affected by financial and performance issues of some of our suppliers and subcontractors, we have not been materially adversely affected by the inability to obtain raw materials or products. in fiscal 2007, our broadcast communications segment experienced component shortages from vendors as a result of the new rohs environmental regulations in the european union, which became effective on july 1, 2006. these regulations caused a spike in demand for lead-free electronic components, resulting in industry-wide supply chain shortages. these component shortages did not have a material adverse effect on our business. seasonality we do not consider any material portion of our business to be seasonal. various factors can affect the distribution of our revenue between accounting periods, including the timing of u.s. government budgets, supplemental budgets and contract awards, the availability of funding, product deliveries and customer acceptance. employees we employed approximately 16,500 employees at the end of fiscal 2008 compared with approximately 16,000 employees at the end of fiscal 2007. approximately 89 percent of our employees as of the end of fiscal 2008 are located in the united states. a significant number of employees in our defense communications and electronics and government communications systems segments possess a security clearance. we also utilize a number of independent contractors. none of our employees in the united states is represented by a labor union. in certain international subsidiaries, our employees are represented by workers councils or statutory labor unions. in general, we believe that our relations with our employees are good. website access to harris reports; available information general. we maintain an internet website at http://www.harris.com. our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to such reports, filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the securities and exchange commission ( sec ). we also will provide the reports in electronic or paper form free of charge upon request. we also make available free of charge on our website our annual report to shareholders and proxy statement. our website and the information posted thereon are not incorporated into this annual report on form 10-k or any current or other periodic report that we file with or furnish to the sec. all reports we file with or furnish to the sec also are available free of charge via the sec electronic data gathering and retrieval ( edgar ) system available through the sec website at http://www.sec.gov . 17 table of contents additional information relating to our businesses, including our operating segments, is set forth in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this annual report on form 10-k. corporate governance principles and committee charters. we previously adopted corporate governance principles, which are available on the corporate governance section of our website at www.harris.com/harris/cg/ . in addition, the charters of each of the committees of our board, namely, the audit committee, business conduct and corporate responsibility committee, corporate governance committee, finance committee and management development and compensation committee, are also available on the corporate governance section of our website. a copy of the charters is also available free of charge upon written request to our corporate secretary at harris corporation, 1025 west nasa boulevard, melbourne, florida 32919. certifications. we have filed with the sec the certifications required by section 302 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 as exhibits to this annual report on form 10-k. in addition, an annual ceo certification was submitted by our chief executive officer to the new york stock exchange in november 2007 in accordance with the nyse listing standards, which included a certification that he was not aware of any violation by harris of the nyse corporate governance listing standards. item 1a. risk factors. we have described many of the trends and other factors that could impact our business and future results in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this annual report on form 10-k. in addition, our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, those set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or our anticipated future results. we participate in markets that are often subject to uncertain economic conditions, which makes it difficult to estimate growth in our markets and, as a result, future income and expenditures. we participate in markets that are subject to uncertain economic conditions. as a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth in some of the markets in which we participate. because all components of our budgeting and forecasting are dependent upon estimates of growth in the markets we serve, the uncertainty renders estimates of future income and expenditures even more difficult. as a result, we may make significant investments and expenditures but never realize the anticipated benefits, which could adversely affect our results of operations. the future direction of the overall domestic and global economies also will have a significant impact on our overall performance. we depend on the u.s. government for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of this relationship or a shift in u.s. government funding could have adverse consequences on our future business. we are highly dependent on sales to the u.s. government. the percentage of our net revenue that was derived from sales to the u.s. government was approximately 68 percent in fiscal 2008 and 66 percent in each of fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006. therefore, any significant disruption or deterioration of our relationship with the u.s. government would significantly reduce our revenue. our u.s. government programs must compete with programs managed by other government contractors for limited resources and for uncertain levels of funding. our competitors continuously engage in efforts to expand their business relationships with the u.s. government and will continue these efforts in the future. the u.s. government may choose to use other contractors for its limited number of programs. in addition, the funding of programs also competes with non-procurement spending of the u.s. government. budget decisions made by the u.s. government are outside of our control and have long-term consequences for our business. a shift in u.s. government spending to other programs in which we are not involved, an increase in non-procurement spending or a reduction in u.s. government spending generally, could have material adverse consequences on our future business. we depend significantly on our u.s. government contracts, which often are only partially funded, subject to immediate termination, and heavily regulated and audited. the termination or failure to fund one or more of these contracts could have an adverse impact on our business. over its lifetime, a u.s. government program may be implemented by the award of many different individual contracts and subcontracts. the funding of u.s. government programs is subject to congressional appropriations. although multi-year contracts may be planned or authorized in connection with major procurements, congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may continue for several years. consequently, programs often receive only partial funding initially, and additional funds are committed only as 18 table of contents congress authorizes further appropriations. the termination of funding for a u.s. government program would result in a loss of anticipated future revenue attributable to that program, which could have an adverse impact on our operations. in addition, the termination of a program or the failure to commit additional funds to a program that already has been started could result in lost revenue and increase our overall costs of doing business. generally, u.s. government contracts are subject to oversight audits by u.s. government representatives. in addition, the contracts generally contain provisions permitting termination, in whole or in part, without prior notice at the u.s. government convenience upon the payment only for work done and commitments made at the time of termination. we can give no assurance that one or more of our u.s. government contracts will not be terminated under these circumstances. also, we can give no assurance that we would be able to procure new contracts to offset the revenue or backlog lost as a result of any termination of our u.s. government contracts. because a significant portion of our revenue is dependent on our performance and payment under our u.s. government contracts, the loss of one or more large contracts could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. our government business also is subject to specific procurement regulations and a variety of socio-economic and other requirements. these requirements, although customary in u.s. government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. these costs might increase in the future, thereby reducing our margins, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could lead to suspension or debarment from u.s. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. among the causes for debarment are violations of various laws, including those related to procurement integrity, export control, u.s. government security regulations, employment practices, protection of the environment, accuracy of records, proper recording of costs and foreign corruption. the termination of a u.s. government contract or relationship as a result of any of these acts would have an adverse impact on our operations and could have an adverse effect on our standing and eligibility for future u.s. government contracts. we enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses in the event of cost overruns or a significant increase in inflation. we have a number of firm fixed-price contracts. in fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, approximately 35 percent and 33 percent, respectively, of the total combined revenue of our defense communications and electronics and government communications systems segments was from fixed-price contracts. these contracts allow us to benefit from cost savings, but they carry the risk of potential cost overruns because we assume all of the cost burden. if our initial estimates are incorrect, we can lose money on these contracts. u.s. government contracts can expose us to potentially large losses because the u.s. government can hold us responsible for completing a project or, in certain circumstances, paying the entire cost of its replacement by another provider regardless of the size or foreseeability of any cost overruns that occur over the life of the contract. because many of these contracts involve new technologies and applications and can last for years, unforeseen events, such as technological difficulties, fluctuations in the price of raw materials, problems with our suppliers and cost overruns, can result in the contractual price becoming less favorable or even unprofitable to us over time. recently, the united states has experienced a significant increase in inflation. a continued significant increase in inflation rates could also have a significant adverse impact on the profitability of these contracts. furthermore, if we do not meet contract deadlines or specifications, we may need to renegotiate contracts on less favorable terms, be forced to pay penalties or liquidated damages or suffer major losses if the customer exercises its right to terminate. in addition, some of our contracts have provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights, and if we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts we may not realize their full benefits. our results of operations are dependent on our ability to maximize our earnings from our contracts. lower earnings caused by cost overruns and cost controls would have an adverse impact on our financial results. furthermore, the potential impact of this risk on our financial results would be magnified by a shift in the mix of our contracts and programs toward a greater percentage of firm fixed-price contracts. we derive a substantial portion of our revenue from international operations and are subject to the risks of doing business internationally, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates. we are dependent on sales to customers outside the united states. in fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, revenue from products exported from the u.s. or manufactured abroad was 24 percent, 23 percent and 21 percent, respectively, of our total revenue. approximately 54 percent of our international business in fiscal 2008 was transacted in local currency environments. losses resulting from currency rate fluctuations can adversely affect our results. we expect that international revenue will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue. 19 table of contents also, a significant portion of our international revenue is in less-developed countries. we are subject to risks of doing business internationally, including: currency exchange controls, fluctuations of currency and currency revaluations; the laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments relating to investments and operations, as well as u.s. laws affecting the activities of u.s. companies abroad; changes in regulatory requirements, including imposition of tariffs or embargoes, export controls and other trade restrictions; uncertainties and restrictions concerning the availability of funding, credit or guarantees; the complexity and necessity of using international dealers, distributors, sales representatives and consultants; the difficulty of managing an organization doing business in many countries; import and export licensing requirements and regulations, as well as unforeseen changes in export regulations; uncertainties as to local laws and enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights and occasional requirements for onerous contract clauses; and rapid changes in government, economic and political policies, political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of international boycotts or u.s. anti-boycott legislation. while these factors and the impacts of these factors are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations in the future. we may not be successful in obtaining the necessary export licenses to conduct certain operations abroad, and congress may prevent proposed sales to certain foreign governments. we must first obtain export and other licenses and authorizations from various u.s. government agencies before we are permitted to sell certain products and technologies outside of the united states. for example, the u.s. department of state must notify congress at least 15-60 days, depending on the size and location of the sale, prior to authorizing certain sales of defense equipment and services to foreign governments. during that time, congress may take action to block the proposed sale. we can give no assurance that we will continue to be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses or authorizations or that congress will not prevent or delay certain sales. any significant impairment of our ability to sell products or technologies outside of the united states could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. our future success will depend on our ability to develop new products and technologies that achieve market acceptance in our current and future markets. both our commercial and government businesses are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry standards. accordingly, our future performance depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: identify emerging technological trends in our current and target markets; develop and maintain competitive products; enhance our offerings by adding innovative hardware, software or other features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors; develop, manufacture and bring cost-effective offerings to market quickly; and effectively structure our businesses, through the use of teaming agreements, ventures and other forms of alliances, to reflect the competitive environment. we believe that, in order to remain competitive in the future, we will need to continue to develop new products and technologies, requiring the investment of significant financial resources. the need to make these expenditures could divert our attention and resources from other projects, and we cannot be sure that these expenditures ultimately will lead to the timely development of new products or technologies. due to the design complexity of some of our products and technologies, we may experience delays in completing development and introducing new products or technologies in the future. any delays could result in increased costs of development or redirect resources from other projects. in addition, we cannot provide assurances that the markets for our products or technologies will develop as we currently anticipate. the failure of our products or technologies to gain market acceptance could significantly reduce our revenue and harm our business. furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing products or technologies that gain market acceptance in advance of our products or technologies, or that our competitors will not develop new products or technologies that cause our existing products or technologies to become obsolete. if we fail in our new product and technology development efforts, or our products or technologies fail to achieve market acceptance more rapidly than those of our 20 table of contents competitors, our revenue will decline and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. we cannot predict the consequences of future geo-political events, but they may affect adversely the markets in which we operate, our ability to insure against risks, our operations or our profitability. the terrorist attacks in the united states on september 11, 2001, the subsequent u.s.-led military response, current conflicts in the middle east and the potential for future terrorist activities and other recent geo-political events have created economic and political uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on our business and the prices of our securities. these matters have caused uncertainty in the world financial and insurance markets and may increase significantly the political, economic and social instability in the geographic areas in which we operate. these matters also have caused the premiums charged for our insurance coverages to increase and may cause some coverages to be unavailable altogether. while our government businesses have benefited from homeland defense initiatives and the global war on terror, these developments may affect adversely our business and profitability and the prices of our securities in ways that we cannot predict at this time. we have made, and may continue to make, strategic acquisitions that involve significant risks and uncertainties. we have made, and we may continue to make, strategic acquisitions that involve significant risks and uncertainties. these risks and uncertainties include: difficulty in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and cost-effective manner and the risk that we encounter significant unanticipated costs or other problems associated with integration; challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits expected from acquisitions; risk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the strategic acquisitions do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; risk that we assume significant liabilities that exceed the limitations of any applicable indemnification provisions or the financial resources of any indemnifying parties; potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses; and risk of diverting the attention of senior management from our existing operations. the inability of our subcontractors to perform, or our key suppliers to timely deliver our components or parts, could cause our products to be produced in an untimely or unsatisfactory manner. on many of our contracts, we engage subcontractors. in addition, there are certain parts or components for many of our products which we source from other manufacturers or vendors. some of our suppliers, from time to time, experience financial and operational difficulties, which may impact their ability to supply the materials, components and subsystems that we require. any inability to develop alternative sources of supply on a cost-effective and timely basis could materially impair our ability to manufacture and deliver products to our customers. we can give no assurances that we will be free from material supply problems or component or subsystems problems in the future. also, our subcontractors and other suppliers may not be able to maintain the quality of the materials, components and subsystems they supply, which might result in greater product returns and warranty claims and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. third parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their intellectual property rights, and third parties may infringe upon our intellectual property rights. many of the markets we serve are characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights, which often has resulted in protracted and expensive litigation. third parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing or to have infringed directly or indirectly upon those intellectual property rights. claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. moreover, we may not be able to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us, or at all. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain of our products. our success depends in large part on our proprietary technology. we rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, know-how, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. if we fail to successfully protect and enforce these rights, our competitive position could suffer. our pending patent and trademark registration applications may not be allowed, or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents or trademark registrations. in addition, our patents may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and police our intellectual property rights. we may not be able to detect infringement and our competitive position may be harmed before we do so. in addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. 21 table of contents the outcome of litigation or arbitration in which we are involved is unpredictable and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse affect on our financial position and results of operations. we are defendants in a number of litigation matters and are involved in a number of arbitrations. these actions may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. no assurances can be given that the results of these or new matters will be favorable to us. an adverse resolution of lawsuits or arbitrations could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to customer credit risk. we sometimes provide medium-term and long-term customer financing. customer financing arrangements may include all or a portion of the purchase price for our products and services, as well as working capital. we also may assist customers in obtaining financing from banks and other sources on a recourse or non-recourse basis. while we generally have been able to place a portion of our customer financings with third-party lenders, or to otherwise insure a portion of this risk, a portion of these financings is provided directly by us. there can be higher risks associated with some of these financings, particularly when provided to start-up operations such as local network providers, to customers in developing countries or to customers in specific financing-intensive areas of the telecommunications industry. if customers fail to meet their obligations, losses could be incurred and such losses could have an adverse effect on us. our losses could be much greater if it becomes more difficult to place or insure against these risks with third parties. these risks may increase when the availability of credit decreases. we face certain significant risk exposures and potential liabilities that may not be covered adequately by insurance or indemnity. we are exposed to liabilities that are unique to the products and services we provide. a significant portion of our business relates to designing, developing and manufacturing advanced defense and technology systems and products. new technologies associated with these systems and products may be untested or unproven. components of certain of the defense systems and products we develop are inherently dangerous. failures of satellites, missile systems, air-traffic control systems, homeland security applications and aircraft have the potential to cause loss of life and extensive property damage. in most circumstances, we may receive indemnification from the u.s. government. while we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, and we may be forced to bear substantial costs from an accident or incident. it also is not possible to obtain insurance to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. substantial claims resulting from an incident in excess of u.s. government indemnity and our insurance coverage could harm our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. moreover, any accident or incident for which we are liable, even if fully insured, could negatively affect our standing among our customers and the public, thereby making it more difficult for us to compete effectively, and could significantly impact the cost and availability of adequate insurance in the future. changes in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. our future effective tax rate may be adversely affected by a number of factors including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation expense; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; changes in domestic or international tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws; and the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact our results of operations for future periods. our consolidated financial results may be impacted by harris stratex networks financial results, which may vary significantly and be difficult to forecast. we consolidate harris stratex networks financial results in our results of operations. harris stratex networks financial results may vary significantly in the future and may be affected by a number of factors (many of which are outside of our and harris stratex networks control), and accordingly are expected to be difficult to forecast. delays in product delivery or closing of a sale can cause quarterly revenues and quarterly net income to fluctuate significantly from anticipated levels. in addition, harris stratex networks may increase spending in response to 22 table of contents competition or in pursuit of new market opportunities. accordingly, we cannot provide assurances that harris stratex networks will be able to achieve profitability in the future or, if profitability is attained, that harris stratex networks will be able to sustain profitability, particularly on a quarter-to-quarter basis. because we consolidate harris stratex networks financial results in our results of operations, fluctuations in and difficulty in forecasting harris stratex networks financial results will result in fluctuations in and likely greater difficulty in forecasting our consolidated results of operations. as a result, such fluctuations and forecasting difficulty may impact our consolidated financial results. additionally, we rely on harris stratex networks to timely provide its financial information for us to use in preparing and filing with the sec our consolidated financial statements. delays or other difficulties in harris stratex networks ability to provide on a timely basis financial information that accurately reflects its financial results may result in delays or other difficulties in our ability to prepare and file with the sec on a timely basis our consolidated financial statements that accurately reflect our consolidated results of operations. we have significant operations in florida, california and other locations that could be materially and adversely impacted in the event of a natural disaster or other significant disruption. our corporate headquarters and significant operations of our government communications systems segment are located in florida, where major hurricanes have occurred. in addition, our broadcast communications and harris stratex networks segments have locations near major earthquake fault lines in california. our worldwide operations could be subject to natural disasters or other significant disruptions, including hurricanes, typhoons, tsunamis, floods, earthquakes, fires, water shortages, other extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics, acts of terrorism, power shortages and blackouts, telecommunications failures, and other natural and manmade disasters or disruptions. in the event of such a natural disaster or other disruption, we could experience disruptions or interruptions to our operations or the operations of our suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers; destruction of facilities; and/or loss of life, all of which could materially increase our costs and expenses and materially adversely affect our business, revenue and financial condition. changes in future business conditions could cause business investments and/or recorded goodwill to become impaired, resulting in substantial losses and write-downs that would reduce our results of operations. as part of our overall strategy, we will, from time to time, acquire a minority or majority interest in a business. these investments are made upon careful target analysis and due diligence procedures designed to achieve a desired return or strategic objective. these procedures often involve certain assumptions and judgment in determining acquisition price. after acquisition, unforeseen issues could arise which adversely affect the anticipated returns or which are otherwise not recoverable as an adjustment to the purchase price. even after careful integration efforts, actual operating results may vary significantly from initial estimates. goodwill accounts for approximately 34 percent of our recorded total assets as of june 27, 2008. we evaluate the recoverability of recorded goodwill amounts annually, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. the annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. principally, a decrease in expected reporting segment cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill. for additional information on accounting policies we have in place for goodwill impairment, see our discussion under critical accounting policies and estimates in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this annual report on form 10-k and note 1: significant accounting policies in the notes. in order to be successful, we must attract and retain key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. our business has a continuing need to attract significant numbers of skilled personnel, including personnel holding security clearances, to support our growth and to replace individuals who have terminated employment due to retirement or for other reasons. to the extent that the demand for qualified personnel exceeds supply, as has been the case in recent years, we could experience higher labor, recruiting or training costs in order to attract and retain such employees, or could experience difficulties in performing under our contracts if our needs for such employees were unmet. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 56 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of doing business, we are exposed to the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rates and changes in interest rates. we employ established policies and procedures governing the use of financial instruments to manage our exposure to such risks. for a discussion of such policies and procedures and the related risks, see financial risk management in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this annual report on form 10-k, which is incorporated by reference into this item 7a. 56 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. " --> item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. harris, in the normal course of doing business, is exposed to the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rates, fluctuations in the market value of its marketable equity securities available for sale, and changes in the interest rates. harris employs established policies and procedures governing the use of financial instruments to manage its exposure to such risks. for a discussion of such policies and procedures and the related risks, see market risk management in item 7, which is incorporated by reference into this item 7a.quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. " --> item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. in the normal course of doing business, we are exposed to the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rates, fluctuations in the market value of our marketable equity securities available for sale, and changes in interest rates. we employ established policies and procedures governing the use of financial instruments to manage our exposure to such risks. for a discussion of such policies and procedures and the related risks, see market risk management in item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation, which is incorporated by reference into this item 7a.quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 49 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. " --> item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. in the normal course of doing business, we are exposed to the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rates, fluctuations in the market value of our marketable equity securities available for sale and changes in interest rates. we employ established policies and procedures governing the use of financial instruments to manage our exposure to such risks. for a discussion of such policies and procedures and the related risks, see market risk management in item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, which is incorporated by reference into this item 7a.quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 46 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. " --> item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. in the normal course of doing business, we are exposed to the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rates, fluctuations in the market value of our marketable equity securities available-for-sale and changes in interest rates. we employ established policies and procedures governing the use of financial instruments to manage our exposure to such risks. for a discussion of such policies and procedures and the related risks, see financial risk management in item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, which is incorporated by reference into this item 7a.quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 49 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. in the normal course of doing business, we are exposed to the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rates, fluctuations in the market value of our marketable equity securities available-for-sale and changes in interest rates. we employ established policies and procedures governing the use of financial instruments to manage our exposure to such risks. for a discussion of such policies and procedures and the related risks, see financial risk management in item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, which is incorporated by reference into this item 7a.risk factors 16 risk factors of this report. all forward-looking statements are qualified by, and should be read in conjunction with, those risk factors. forward-looking statements are made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended (the securities act ), and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the exchange act ), and we undertake no obligation, other than imposed by law, to update forward-looking statements to reflect further developments or information obtained after the date of filing of this report or, in the case of any document incorporated by reference, the date of that document, and disclaim any obligation to do so. part i item 1. business. harris harris corporation, together with its subsidiaries, is an international communications and information technology company serving government and commercial markets in more than 125 countries. we are dedicated to developing best-in-class assured communications &reg; products, systems and services for global markets, including rf communications, integrated network solutions and government communications systems. harris corporation was incorporated in delaware in 1926 as the successor to three companies founded in the 1890s. our principal executive offices are located at 1025 west nasa boulevard, melbourne, florida 32919, and our telephone number is (321) 727-9100. our common stock is listed on the new york stock exchange under the symbol hrs. on june 29, 2012, we employed approximately 15,200 people. unless the context otherwise requires, the terms we, our, us, company and harris as used in this report refer to harris corporation and its subsidiaries. general we structure our operations primarily around the products and services we sell and the markets we serve, and we report the financial results of our operations in the following three reportable operating segments: our rf communications segment, comprised of (i) u.s. department of defense and international tactical communications and (ii) public safety and professional communications; our integrated network solutions segment, comprised of (i) it services, (ii) harris caprock communications and (iii) healthcare solutions; and our government communications systems segment, comprised of (i) civil programs, (ii) national intelligence programs and (iii) defense programs. in the third quarter of fiscal 2012, our board of directors approved a plan to exit our cyber integrated solutions operation ( cis ), which provided remote cloud hosting, and to dispose of the related assets, and we reported cis as discontinued operations beginning with our financial results presented in our quarterly report on form 10-q for the third quarter of fiscal 2012. in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, our board of directors approved a plan to divest our broadcast communications operation ( broadcast communications ), which provides digital media management solutions in support of broadcast customers, and we are reporting broadcast communications as discontinued operations beginning with our financial results presented in this report. both cis and broadcast communications were formerly part of our integrated network solutions segment. our results of operations for fiscal 2012 and our financial 1 table of contents position as of the end of fiscal 2012 presented in this report reflect both cis and broadcast communications as discontinued operations. our results of operations for all periods prior to fiscal 2012 presented in this report have been restated to account for cis and broadcast communications as discontinued operations. for additional information regarding discontinued operations, see note 3: discontinued operations in the notes to consolidated financial statements in this report (the notes ). except for disclosures related to our financial position as of the end of periods prior to fiscal 2012 or to our cash flows, or unless otherwise specified, disclosures in this report relate solely to our continuing operations. financial information with respect to all of our other activities, including corporate costs not allocated to the operating segments or discontinued operations, is reported as part of the unallocated corporate expense or non-operating income (loss) line items in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. financial information about our business segments financial information with respect to our business segments, including revenue, operating income or loss and total assets, and with respect to our operations outside the united states, is contained in note 24: business segments in the notes and is incorporated herein by reference. description of business by segment rf communications rf communications is a global supplier of secure tactical radio communications and embedded high-grade encryption solutions for military, government and commercial organizations and also of secure communications systems and equipment for public safety, utility and transportation markets. rf communications is comprised of (i) u.s. department of defense and international tactical communications and (ii) public safety and professional communications. u.s. department of defense and international tactical communications: we design, develop and manufacture a comprehensive line of single-band and multiband secure radio communications products and systems for manpack, handheld, vehicular, strategic fixed-site and shipboard installations that span the communications architecture from high capacity line of site, backbone radios to small soldier personal radios ( sprs ) and tablet computers. our ground tactical products operate in various radio frequency bands including high-frequency ( hf ), very high-frequency ( vhf ), ultra high-frequency ( uhf ) and l-band with higher frequencies supported for some of our network backbone products. our radio systems are highly flexible, interoperable and capable of supporting diverse mission requirements. our falcon &reg; families of tactical radios are built on software-defined radio platforms that are reprogrammable to add features or software upgrades. our falcon radios also have the highest grade embedded encryption and provide highly mobile, secure and reliable network communications capability without relying on a fixed infrastructure. this capability allows warfighters, for example, to remain connected with each other, their command structures and support organizations, and provides them the ability to communicate information and maintain situational awareness of both friendly and opposing forces, which are critical to both the safety and success of their missions. our falcon radio systems have been widely deployed in all branches of the u.s. department of defense ( dod ), as well as throughout the militaries of our allied nations around the world, with more than 450,000 falcon radios delivered to dod and nato customers. unlike many of our competitors in the u.s. government market operating on a government-funded programs-driven business model, we operate this business on a commercial customer-driven business model. this means that we anticipate market needs, invest our internal research and development resources, build to our internal forecast, and provide ready-to-ship, commercial, off-the-shelf ( cots ) products to customers, enabling us to bring products to market faster and adapt to changing customer requirements. our falcon iii &reg; family of radios is the next generation of multiband, multi-mission tactical radios supporting the u.s. military joint tactical radio system ( jtrs ) requirements as well as network-centric operations worldwide. our falcon iii radios address the full range of current mission and interoperability requirements and are fully upgradeable to address changing technical standards and mission requirements of the future. advances in our falcon iii radios include the support of wideband networking waveforms, extended frequency range and significant reductions in weight and size compared with previous generations. our falcon iii multiband handheld radio, the an/prc-152 ( 152 ), is the world most widely deployed jtrs-approved software-defined handheld radio and was our first falcon iii radio to be fielded. we have successfully fielded more than 180,000 152s across all branches of the dod, many allies worldwide and u.s. federal agencies. the 152 offers users a wide range of capabilities, such as legacy single channel ground and airborne system interoperability; uhf ground-to-ground line-of-sight communications; close-air support; tactical satellite communications 2 table of contents ( satcom ); and the association of public safety communications officials international ( apco ) p25 waveform to provide direct communications with first responders. the 152 also serves as the handheld-based transceiver of our falcon iii an/vrc-110, a high-performance, multiband vehicular system that offers the added feature of easy vehicle dismount a grab-and-go feature that delivers continuous communications when removed from the vehicle, an important capability in urban environments. the an/prc-152a builds on the 152 by adding wideband, networked communications capability, supporting both our harris-developed adaptive networking wideband waveform ( anw2 ) for high bandwidth data operation and the jtrs soldier radio waveform ( srw ). this is the first radio of its kind to support both a full range of narrowband legacy waveforms and wideband networking waveforms in a handheld platform. our falcon iii multiband manpack radio, the an/prc-117g ( 117g ), is the first jtrs software communications architecture-certified and national security agency ( nsa ) type-1 certified manpack radio system providing wideband networking capability, enabling the transition to a networked battlefield communications environment and high-bandwidth applications, including streaming video, simultaneous voice and data feeds, intelligence reporting and analysis, collaborative chat, route planning, convoy tracking, checkpoint biometrics and connectivity to secure networks. the 117g is type-1 certified for narrowband communications, as well as for wideband communications using our anw2 for high bandwidth data operation and the jtrs srw. the 117g wideband network access capabilities give warfighters and field commanders critical real-time information. the 117g has been deployed to all branches of the dod and is being used in a wide variety of ground, vehicular and airborne applications, including intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance ( isr ). for example, the 117g is currently being developed using our anw2 to serve as the mid-tier networking backbone for the u.s. army brigade combat team modernization. our cryptographic solutions encompass nsa-certified products and systems that range from single integrated circuits to major communications systems. these solutions include our sierra &reg; and citadel &reg; embedded encryption solutions, kgv-72 blue force tracking programmable encryption devices and our new kik-11 tactical key loader. in the international market, our tactical radios have been sold to more than 100 countries through our strong, longstanding international distribution channels consisting of regional sales offices and a broad dealer network. our falcon ii &reg; and falcon iii tactical radios are standardized in many countries, including nato and partnership for peace countries. international tactical radio demand is being driven by continuing tactical communications modernization and standardization programs to provide more sophisticated communications capabilities to address traditional and emerging threats, in addition to providing interoperability among coalition forces. in fiscal 2012, we received tactical radio orders from, and/or made deliveries to, a wide range of international customers, including australia, brazil, canada, iraq, kenya, the kingdom of jordan, kuwait, poland, the republic of georgia, the united kingdom, and other countries in africa, asia, the caribbean, the middle east and south america. additionally, we are providing integrated communications systems for the international market. our integrated systems offerings are largely based on our own products and address a wide variety of applications, in order to implement integrated command, control, communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance ( c4isr ) systems for many different types of platforms, including command post and transit case systems, vehicular and shelter communications systems and specialized airborne applications, which are frequently used in border security and surveillance. public safety and professional communications: we supply assured communications &reg; systems and equipment for public safety, federal, utility, commercial and transportation markets, with products ranging from complete end-to-end wireless network infrastructure solutions, including advanced ip voice and data networks, that support multiple platforms and provide interoperability among disparate systems, to portable and mobile single-band and multiband, multimode radios, to public safety-grade broadband voice, video and data solutions. this business has more than 80 years of experience and supports over 500 systems around the world. as part of our business of designing, building, distributing, maintaining and supplying wireless communications systems, we offer our voice, interoperability, data and access ( vida ) network platform a unified ip-based voice and data communication system that provides network-level interoperable communications among public safety agencies by supporting a full line of communications systems, including opensky &reg; , networkfirst, p25 ip , enhanced digital access communication system ( edacs ) and the next-generation 4g long term evolution ( lte ) communications standard for wireless broadband for first responders. our vida network solutions currently serve as the backbone in some of the largest and most advanced statewide and regional communications networks in north america, including for the commonwealth of pennsylvania and state of florida. in addition, we are designing and building the alberta first responders radio communications system that will provide public safety communications within the 256,000 square-mile area of the province of alberta, canada; are 3 table of contents supporting mission-critical communications needs of the oregon department of transportation and the oregon state police under the oregon statewide radio project; and have received an order from the san francisco municipal transportation authority to deploy a communications network to increase operational efficiencies, improve safety and provide interoperability with public safety agencies. we also have provided 700 mhz band lte pilot programs to multiple u.s. cities and successfully conducted the first live, multi-state lte demonstration for first responders, which enabled them to share streaming video, voice and mapping. in addition to a full range of single-band land mobile radio terminals, we offer our unity tm family of multiband radios, including the unity xg-100p handheld radio and unity xg-100m full-spectrum mobile radio for vehicles. our unity multiband radios cover all public safety frequency bands in a single radio; operate on apco p25 conventional and trunked systems; are backwards compatible with analog fm systems; and include advanced capabilities, such as an internal global positioning system ( gps ) receiver for situational awareness, internal secure bluetooth &reg; wireless technology, and background noise suppression features. they also include true software-defined radio architecture that allows flexibility for future growth, including a software-only upgrade to apco p25 phase 2, the next-generation emerging standard for mission-critical communications. our unity radios multiband, multi-mode capabilities enable a single radio to communicate with multiple organizations, jurisdictions and agencies operating on different frequencies and systems, providing a significant improvement over most current radio systems for u.s. public safety, which are not interoperable and thus require users to carry multiple radios or route transmissions through ad-hoc network bridges, often configured at the time of an emergency, and resulting in instances where agencies responding to a common incident cannot talk to each other. revenue, operating income and backlog: revenue for the rf communications segment decreased 6.3 percent to $2,144 million in fiscal 2012 compared with $2,289 million in fiscal 2011, and was $2,067 million in fiscal 2010. segment operating income decreased 10.6 percent to $703.7 million in fiscal 2012 compared with $787.0 million in fiscal 2011, and was $707.4 million in fiscal 2010. the rf communications segment contributed 39 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2012 compared with 42 percent in fiscal 2011 and 44 percent in fiscal 2010. the percentage of this segment revenue that was derived outside of the united states was 40 percent in fiscal 2012 compared with 31 percent in fiscal 2011 and 20 percent in fiscal 2010. u.s. government customers, including the dod and intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military sales funded through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, accounted for approximately 46 percent of this segment total revenue in fiscal 2012 compared with approximately 63 percent in fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010. for a general description of our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, including a discussion of revenue generated thereunder and of cost-reimbursable versus fixed-price contracts, see item 1. business principal customers; government contracts of this report. in general, this segment domestic products are sold and serviced directly to customers through its sales organization and through established distribution channels. internationally, this segment markets and sells its products and services through regional sales offices and established distribution channels. see item 1. business international business of this report. the funded backlog of unfilled orders for this segment was $1,300 million at june 29, 2012 compared with $1,503 million at july 1, 2011 and $1,764 million at july 2, 2010. we expect to fill approximately 48 percent of this funded backlog during fiscal 2013, but we can give no assurance of such fulfillment. additional information regarding funded backlog is provided under item 1. business funded and unfunded backlog of this report. for a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, see item 1. business principal customers; government contracts, item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this report. integrated network solutions our integrated network solutions segment addresses the fast-growing global market for integrated communications and information technology and services and provides a variety of trusted networking capabilities to support government, energy, maritime and healthcare customers. these capabilities are comprised of (i) mission-critical end-to-end information technology ( it ) services, (ii) managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions and (iii) standards-based healthcare interoperability and image management solutions. it services: we are a leading systems and network integrator and prime contractor serving customers in the defense, intelligence, homeland security, civilian and commercial markets by delivering scalable, flexible, secure solutions that achieve objectives and advance mission readiness. we have positions as a prime contractor on many key indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity ( idiq ) contract vehicles related to it services, including on four idiq contract vehicles awarded to us in fiscal 2012. our business is a standards and process driven enterprise, our it services platform follows strict methodologies, and we have attained 4 table of contents high-level, specialized it services registrations and ratings. we invest in the expertise of our employees to ensure currency with evolving technologies and promote optimal service delivery, and we have a mix of clearances that enable us to support our broad customer base. our business is built around a firm fixed-price, performance-based contract portfolio, providing the ability to leverage our workforce across multiple engagements to adapt quickly to specific customer requirements. in the u.s., our operational footprint offers a physical presence in all 50 states and provides support to more than 10,000 customer sites in 300 of the largest u.s. cities. examples of our work in designing, integrating, deploying, operating and supporting secure communications systems and information networks for high-profile customers include the following: we provide operations and maintenance support at locations around the world for the communications functions for the u.s. air force 50th space wing satellite control network, a global, continuously operational network of ground stations, operational control nodes and communications links that support launch and command and control of various space programs managed by the dod and other national security space organizations, under the network and space operations and maintenance ( nsom ) program; we provide the u.s. department of the navy with comprehensive, end-to-end support for data, video and voice communications for over 700,000 users as a tier one subcontractor under the navy/marine corps intranet ( nmci ) program; we provide operations and maintenance support for the u.s. navy cyber forces command oconus navy enterprise network as a tier one subcontractor; we provide the u.s. transportation command ( ustc ) at scott air force base in illinois with technical and support services to ensure information security of the ustc distribution process owner secure enclave, as well as numerous applications hosted within the secure network; we provide the government of canada with engineering and logistics services to support the avionics systems on the cf-18 hornet fighter aircraft under the cf-18 avionics optimized weapon system support program; we provide it integration of installation, training, help desk, passport and configuration management services for the u.s. department of state, bureau of consular affairs in support of more than 240 u.s. embassies and consulates around the world; we provide comprehensive clinical data management for the national cancer institute intramural clinical trials program; we provide system maintenance and engineering for the defense information systems agency crisis management system; we maintain networks that enable over 12 million u.s. military members and their families to receive goods and services at 250 locations around the world for the defense commissary agency; and we provide it infrastructure and follow-on operations and maintenance support for the relocation of the u.s. army materiel command headquarters building to huntsville, alabama, and we delivered the migration and consolidation of the communications systems for nine u.s. southern command buildings into a new headquarters complex. harris caprock communications: we are a global provider of managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions, specifically for remote and harsh environments, including for energy, maritime and government customers. we own and operate a robust global infrastructure that includes teleports on six continents; five network operations centers running 24 hours per day, seven days per week; local presence in 23 countries; and over 275 global field service personnel supporting customer locations in more than 125 countries, including across north america, central and south america, europe, west africa and asia-pacific. our customers include bp, baker hughes, bristow group, chevron, diamond offshore, exxonmobil, halliburton, modec, shell, transocean, kbr, green reefers, gulf offshore, nabors, seatrans, oceaneering, subsea 7, royal caribbean cruise lines, the dod, the department of homeland security, other federal civilian u.s. government agencies, and foreign governments and allied forces, and we are a preferred supplier to the schlumberger group. we combine satellite, terrestrial and wireless technologies to provide comprehensive communications solutions that connect customers remote sites with each other and with distant headquarters. our solutions focus on voice, data and networking solutions for remote sites and are supported by the largest global managed satellite network in the world. harris caprock communications operations are the result of our combination in fiscal 2011 of (i) caprock holdings, inc. and its subsidiaries, including caprock communications, inc. (collectively, caprock ), a global provider of mission-critical, managed satellite communications services for the government, energy and maritime industries, which we acquired on july 30, 2010; (ii) the schlumberger group global connectivity services business ( schlumberger gcs ), a provider of satellite and terrestrial communications services for the worldwide energy industry, which we acquired on april 4, 2011; and (iii) the terrestrial network infrastructure assets of the government business of core180, inc. (the core180 infrastructure ) that we acquired in the third quarter of fiscal 2011, with (iv) our existing maritime communications services operations. 5 table of contents examples of our fully-managed end-to-end communications services to critical operations in remote and harsh environments include: providing complete turnkey managed satellite communications services, including all shipboard equipment, onboard it system integration and satellite bandwidth, under multi-year agreements covering 150 vessels operating worldwide for one energy customer and over 100 vessels operating worldwide for another energy customer; providing data, voice and internet service to drilling ships operating in offshore brazil for a major drilling contractor, brasdril sociedad de perfura&ccedil;&otilde;es ltda., under a four-year contract; providing offshore satellite communications under a contract with odfjell drilling in norway; providing global communications services on board 34 cruise ships under a five-year contract with royal caribbean cruises ltd. to improve overall communications performance and enhance guest and crew experiences; delivering turnkey managed satellite communications to a fleet of 53 offshore supply vessels operating in the north sea, brazil, australia and indian pacific regions under a five-year contract with farstad shipping; providing managed communication services on over 300 vessels worldwide for a variety of commercial shipping and service vessels; providing managed satellite communication services covering 2,000 commercial vessels located around the globe under a five-year contract with a customer in the asia pacific region; operating the offshore communications backbone, a modular system of seafloor communications equipment for deep-ocean observation located in the eastern mediterranean sea under a three-year master service agreement; providing end-to-end terrestrial and satellite communications services and solutions to a leading global helicopter transportation company under a five-year contract; providing c-, ku-, and x-band space segment capacity, monitoring and control, teleport services, and operations and maintenance to dod agency customers operating in asia, europe, the united states and all major ocean regions under task orders on the disn satellite transmission services global and future commercial satcom acquisition contracts; providing managed network services and more than 400 mhz of commercial satellite capacity to four separate u.s. government agencies, supporting a range of missions, including airborne isr, tactical field-deployed communications and continuity of operations; and providing a fully-managed, end-to-end communications solution using both terrestrial and satellite capabilities under a five-year contract with a classified customer. healthcare solutions: we provide enterprise intelligence solutions and services for government and commercial customers including systems integration, intelligent infrastructure, interoperability, imaging and other it solutions. we are a leader in federal healthcare it integration, and we also offer commercial providers a full range of interoperability solutions, including it infrastructure and management, clinical workflow management and analytics, health information exchange, portals, business intelligence and image management. our products, systems and services help improve healthcare quality, safety, efficiency, cost and outcomes by ensuring that the right information travels, with security and privacy, to the right person, at the right time, on the right device, at the point of care. examples include the following: we were one of eight companies in the large business category awarded the five-year t4 idiq contract vehicle from the department of veterans affairs ( va ) designed to upgrade the va it system and covering services that will streamline and modernize va operations, including patient care delivery at more than 150 va hospitals; under the t4 idiq vehicle, we are (i) providing electronic health record interoperability to enhance continuity of care between the dod and the va under a five-year contract, potentially worth $80 million, and (ii) designing and installing a wireless network for va medical centers under a two-year contract, potentially worth $19 million; we are deploying under the va enhance the veteran experience and access to healthcare blanket purchase agreement a surgery quality and workflow manager solution to all of the 130 va medical centers that perform surgery, to support the surgery process from the initial evaluation through the completion of the surgery and follow-up and result in improved patient safety, operational efficiency and communication with the veteran family regarding surgery progress; we operate, maintain and enhance the va enterprise wide storage, retrieval and viewing of medical images and artifacts under the veterans health information systems and technology architecture imaging contract, and, as a result of our services, va clinicians have access to a veteran medical images at the point of care regardless of where in the va enterprise such images were captured; 6 table of contents we are creating under the va enterprise management foundation federated data repository program a centralized network monitoring system that will provide the va with a unified view of its critical infrastructure; and we are implementing statewide health information exchange ( hie ) infrastructures in florida and oregon to connect physicians, hospitals, regional hies and state government agencies. in addition to providing interoperability solutions for large-scale health information exchange enterprises, such as the va, the dod and certain states, we also have extended our interoperability solutions to the private sector. on april 4, 2011, we acquired carefx corporation ( carefx ), which provides interoperability workflow solutions for government and commercial healthcare providers, and its software solution suite, fusionfx, gives healthcare providers a unified look at patient data and closes data gaps to ensure a more consistent, higher quality experience for the patient, reducing clinical errors and increasing individual productivity. also in fiscal 2011, we formed peake healthcare innovations, llc, a joint venture with johns hopkins medicine to focus on developing next-generation medical image management solutions to be deployed by the johns hopkins health system and later marketed to hospitals, accountable care organizations and healthcare providers around the united states. revenue, operating income and backlog: revenue for the integrated network solutions segment increased 8.7 percent to $1,571 million in fiscal 2012 compared with $1,445 million in fiscal 2011, and was $1,000 million in fiscal 2010. segment operating income decreased 22.9 percent to $69.9 million in fiscal 2012 compared with $90.7 million in fiscal 2011, and was $119.9 million in fiscal 2010. the integrated network solutions segment contributed 29 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2012 compared with 27 percent in fiscal 2011 and 21 percent in fiscal 2010. the percentage of this segment revenue that was derived outside of the united states was approximately 28 percent in fiscal 2012 compared with 16 percent in fiscal 2011 and 9 percent in fiscal 2010. the following information pertains to the portions of this segment operations in connection with u.s. government programs ( integrated network solutions government business ): some of the more significant programs in fiscal 2012 included the u.s. air force network centric solutions contract, nmci, the defense information systems network access transport services program, the national reconnaissance office patriot program and nsom; the largest program by revenue in a particular fiscal year represented approximately 9 percent of this segment total revenue in fiscal 2012 compared with approximately 10 percent in fiscal 2011 and 16 percent in fiscal 2010; the five largest programs by revenue in a particular fiscal year represented approximately 31 percent of this segment total revenue in fiscal 2012 compared with approximately 38 percent in fiscal 2011 and approximately 55 percent in fiscal 2010; u.s. government customers, including the dod and intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military sales funded through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, accounted for approximately 66 percent of this segment total revenue in fiscal 2012 compared with approximately 74 percent in fiscal 2011 and approximately 93 percent in fiscal 2010; and for integrated network solutions government business, in fiscal 2012, approximately 70 percent of revenue was under direct contracts with customers and approximately 30 percent of revenue was under contracts with prime contractors, compared with approximately 74 percent of revenue under direct contracts with customers and approximately 26 percent of revenue under contracts with prime contractors in fiscal 2011 and approximately 60 percent of revenue under direct contracts with customers and approximately 40 percent of revenue under contracts with prime contractors in fiscal 2010. for a general description of our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, including a discussion of revenue generated thereunder and of cost-reimbursable versus fixed-price contracts, see item 1. business principal customers; government contracts of this report. in general, this segment domestic products are sold and serviced directly to customers through its sales organization and through established distribution channels. internationally, this segment markets and sells its products and services through regional sales offices and established distribution channels. see item 1. business international business of this report. the funded backlog of unfilled orders for this segment was $930 million at june 29, 2012 compared with $765 million at july 1, 2011 and $390 million at july 2, 2010. unfunded backlog for this segment was $1,174 million at june 29, 2012 compared with $1,295 million at july 1, 2011 and $772 million at july 2, 2010. we expect to fill approximately 78 percent of this funded backlog during fiscal 2013, but we can give no assurance of such fulfillment. additional information regarding funded and unfunded backlog is provided under item 1. business funded and 7 table of contents unfunded backlog of this report. for a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, see item 1. business principal customers; government contracts, item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this report. government communications systems government communications systems conducts advanced research and develops, produces, integrates and supports advanced communications and information systems that solve the mission-critical challenges of our civilian, intelligence and defense government customers worldwide, primarily the u.s. government, and is comprised of (i) civil programs, (ii) national intelligence programs and (iii) defense programs. civil programs: we provide highly reliable, mission-critical communications and information processing systems that meet the most demanding needs of customers in the u.s. civilian federal market, including the federal aviation administration ( faa ) and the national oceanic and atmospheric administration ( noaa ). we use our ability to implement and manage large, complex programs that integrate secure, advanced communications and information processing technologies in order to improve productivity and information processing and to achieve cost savings for our customers. our networks and information systems for large-scale, geographically dispersed enterprises offer advanced capabilities for collecting, processing, analyzing, interpreting, displaying, distributing, storing and retrieving data. we are a leader in satellite ground data processing and mission command-and-control ( c2 ) systems. our ground data processing systems consist of complex suites of hardware and software that receive sensor data from satellites, turning it into useable information. our c2 systems feature cots design and high levels of flexibility, are designed for government and commercial applications, and support single-satellite missions as well as some of the largest and most complex satellite fleets deployed. for example, we are the prime contractor and system architect under a 20-year contract awarded in july 2002, with a potential value of $5 billion, for the federal aviation administration telecommunications infrastructure ( fti ) program to integrate, modernize, operate and maintain the communications infrastructure for the u.s. air traffic control system. fti is a modern, secure and efficient network providing voice, data and video communications deployed at more than 4,500 faa sites across the united states. we designed and deployed the fti network and it is fully operational. other faa programs under which we have developed solutions include the following: the operational and supportability implementation system ( oasis ), for which we are the prime contractor and which provides integrated weather briefing and flight planning capabilities for preflight weather briefings and in-flight updates for alaska general aviation community. in fiscal 2011, we were awarded a follow-on contract by the faa to upgrade and manage the oasis system; the weather and radar processor ( warp ) system, a meteorological data processing system serving the en-route air traffic control environment that generates radar mosaic data for air traffic controller displays and delivers weather data to critical subsystems within the national airspace system ( nas ). in fiscal 2010, we were awarded a six-year contract, with a potential value of $97 million, by the faa under the warp maintenance and sustainment services ii program to continue to maintain the warp system by providing hardware and software maintenance, depot support, on-site field support and engineering services at 22 operational faa facilities in the united states; the voice switching and control system, which provides the critical air-to-ground communications links between en-route aircraft and air traffic controllers throughout the continental united states; and the satellite-based alaskan nas interfacility communications system ( anics ), which links the alaskan air route traffic control center in anchorage with 64 faa facilities throughout the region. in the first quarter of fiscal 2012, we were selected as the prime contractor under the alaska satellite telecommunications infrastructure program for a 10-year contract, with a potential value of $85 million, from the faa to upgrade the anics network by replacing and upgrading components and providing a new network management system, system security enhancements, logistics support and training in order to increase network performance and availability while reducing the faa operating and maintenance costs. another example of our capabilities relates to noaa geostationary operational environmental satellite series r ( goes-r ) ground and antenna segment weather programs. under two ten-year contracts, with an aggregate potential value of approximately $1 billion (including change orders), we are providing a complete, end-to-end solution in which we will design, develop, deploy and operate the ground segment system that will receive and process satellite data and generate and distribute weather data to more than 10,000 direct users, as well as providing the command and control of operational satellites. we also are supplying antennas and control systems that will provide communications links for command, telemetry and sensor data, as well as the communications link to 8 table of contents direct data users. the new antennas will operate with next-generation goes-r satellites and will be compatible with existing goes-n through goes-p satellites. in fiscal 2012, we received a follow-on contract, potentially worth $51 million, from noaa for the goes-r ground and antenna segment weather programs. we also are modernizing, under a five-year contract, potentially worth $140 million, for the space network ground segment sustainment ( sgss ) program for the national aeronautics and space administration ( nasa ), the ground segment of the tracking and data relay satellite system ( tdrss ) network used by satellites and spacecraft in low-earth orbit to relay data continuously to ground stations in white sands, new mexico and in guam. the modernization will improve situational awareness for tdrss network operators, upgrade computing and signal processing equipment, enhance reliability and maintainability, improve efficiency and reduce operations and sustainment costs. the sgss program builds on our 30-year incumbency with the tdrss. we were a primary developer of the original tdrss ground system in white sands in the early 1980s, and we also provided the large deployable antennas on the original tdrss satellites for the space segment of the original program. national intelligence programs: a significant portion of this business involves classified programs. while classified programs generally are not discussed in this report, the operating results relating to classified programs are included in our consolidated financial statements. we believe that the business risks associated with those programs do not differ materially from the business risks of other u.s. government programs. we are a major developer, supplier and integrator of communications and information processing products, systems and networks for a diverse base of u.s. intelligence community programs, and we support the ongoing transformation of the intelligence community into a more collaborative enterprise. serving primarily national intelligence and security agency customers, including nsa, the national reconnaissance office ( nro ) and the national geospatial-intelligence agency ( nga ), we provide integrated isr solutions that improve situational awareness, data collection accuracy and product analysis by correlating near real-time mission data and intelligence reference data for display and analysis by strategic and tactical planners and decision makers. our isr systems help to integrate information across the analyst workflow, accelerating the movement of information that has been collected and processed. we strive to produce innovative isr solutions that provide our customers with information dominance for battle-space superiority. for example, our image processing capabilities extend from algorithm development through delivery of operations systems, and we are providing advanced image exploitation and dissemination solutions for isr applications by advancing image processing, image data fusion, display technologies and digital product generation techniques. those technologies range from new techniques for merging and displaying imagery to automated techniques for image screening, cueing and remote visualization. also, our mapping and visualization capabilities provide complete, accurate and timely knowledge about the threat, the terrain, the status and the location of single or multiple opposing and friendly forces and their support by utilizing data, pictures, voice and video drawn from vast storage banks or from real-time input which can be transmitted around the world in fractions of a second. in addition, we have industry-leading capabilities in the architecture, design and development of highly specialized satellite antennas, structures, phased arrays and on-board processors, which are used to enable next-generation satellite systems to provide the u.s. military and intelligence communities with strategic and tactical advantages. we are also a leader in the design and development of antenna and reflector technologies for commercial space telecommunications applications. with more than 50 reflectors in orbit, we are the leading supplier of large reflector apertures and deployable mesh antenna systems for government and commercial applications. further, our capabilities include developing and supplying state-of-the-art wireless voice and data products and solutions, including surveillance and tracking equipment, spanning vehicular, man-portable, airborne and system-level applications for the u.s. intelligence community and law enforcement community. we also offer cyber security solutions and enterprise analytics, including an array of mission-enabling engineering solutions that address both offensive and defensive it security challenges, providing critical support to federal law enforcement and other u.s. government agencies. during fiscal 2012, we were awarded a number of new contracts and follow-on contracts under classified programs. also in fiscal 2012, we were awarded a five-year contract to supply aireon, llc with 81ads-b receiver payloads that will be part of a satellite-based aircraft tracking system to enhance global air traffic control and that will be hosted on the iridium next satellite constellation. defense programs: we develop, supply and integrate communications and information processing products, systems and networks for a diverse base of aerospace, terrestrial and maritime applications supporting dod missions, and we are committed to delivering leading-edge technologies that support the ongoing transformations of military communications for u.s. and international customers. our technologies are providing advanced mobile wideband networking capabilities to assure timely and secure network-centric capabilities across strategic, operational and tactical boundaries in support of the dod full spectrum of warfighting, intelligence and logistics missions. our major 9 table of contents technology capabilities include advanced ground control systems and satcom terminals for transportable ground, fixed-site and shipboard applications; flat-panel, phased-array and single-mission antennas; advanced aviation electronics for military jets, including digital maps, modems, sensors, data buses, fiber optics and microelectronics; and high-speed data links and data networks for wireless communications. for example, our mobile ad hoc networking capability allows the military to take its communications infrastructure with it, creating mobile, robust, self-forming and self-healing networks across the battlefield. our highband networking radio tm ( hnr ) provides secure, wireless, high-bandwidth, on-the-move communications among users of widely dispersed local area networks by establishing line-of-sight connectivity using directive beam antenna technology and a harris-developed waveform that automatically selects the best communications path available, allowing seamless communication of voice, video and data to all levels of command. our hnr system was deployed to the u.s. army 101st airborne division (air assault) 2nd brigade combat team in iraq, which was the first combat deployment of the hnr system, and also was selected by the u.s. army for rapid deployment into afghanistan. our hnrs form the communications backbone of the u.s. army new integrated air and missile defense battle command system, and we are currently producing and delivering hnrs under the u.s. army warfighter information network-tactical ( win-t ) program. in fiscal 2011, we introduced knighthawk tm 3g, a ruggedized, highly mobile tactical base station that enables warfighters on the move to maintain third generation cellular services in locations with limited or no cellular connectivity. knighthawk 3g is a customizable cellular network in a box compatible with cots equipment, including smartphones and tablets. in fiscal 2012 we were selected, as part of the boeing team, to continue to provide critical communications capability for the u.s. missile defense agency ground-based midcourse defense development and sustainment contract. examples of ongoing programs for us include the following: the u.s. army modernization of enterprise terminals ( met ) program, for which we are developing, under a ten-year contract, with a potential value of $600 million, awarded to us in fiscal 2009, next-generation large satellite earth stations to provide the worldwide backbone for high-priority military communications and missile defense systems and to support ip and dedicated circuit connectivity within the global information grid, providing critical reach-back capability for the warfighter; the f-35 joint strike fighter ( f-35 ) and f/a-18e/f super hornet aircraft platform programs, for which we provide high-performance, advanced avionics such as high-speed fiber optic networking and switching, intra-flight data links, image processing, digital map software and other electronic components, including multifunction advanced data link communications subsystems primarily intended for stealth platform air-to-air communications and which allow f-35s to communicate in a stealth fashion with other network nodes without revealing their positions; the win-t program for the u.s. army, for which we are designing and testing the wireless transmission system architecture, applying our proven enabling technologies for wireless on-the-move communications, including phased arrays and high-speed secure wireless network solutions such as our hnr system; and the commercial broadband satellite program for the u.s. navy, for which we supply broadband multiband satcom terminals that support essential mission requirements and provide enhanced morale-related communications services such as high-speed internet access and video communications. revenue, operating income and backlog: revenue for the government communications systems segment increased 3.2 percent to $1,834 million in fiscal 2012 compared with $1,777 million in fiscal 2011, and was $1,747 million in fiscal 2010. segment operating income increased 12.9 percent to $256.2 million in fiscal 2012 compared with $227.0 million in fiscal 2011, and was $227.4 million in fiscal 2010. this segment contributed 34 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2012 compared with 33 percent in fiscal 2011 and 37 percent in fiscal 2010. in fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011, approximately 70 percent of revenue for this segment was under direct contracts with customers and approximately 30 percent of revenue was under contracts with prime contractors, compared with approximately 73 percent of revenue under direct contracts with customers and approximately 27 percent of revenue under contracts with prime contractors in fiscal 2010. some of this segment more significant programs in fiscal 2012 included fti, goes-r, f-35, met, win-t and various classified and space communications systems programs. this segment largest program by revenue in a particular fiscal year represented approximately 13 percent of this segment revenue in fiscal 2012 compared with approximately 14 percent in fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010. this segment ten largest programs by revenue in a particular fiscal year represented approximately 47 percent of this segment revenue in fiscal 2012, compared with approximately 47 percent in fiscal 2011 and approximately 46 percent in fiscal 2010. in fiscal 2012, this segment had a diverse portfolio of over 200 programs. u.s. government customers, including the dod and intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military sales funded through the u.s. government, whether 10 table of contents directly or through prime contractors, accounted for approximately 97 percent of this segment total revenue in fiscal 2012 compared with approximately 97 percent in fiscal 2011 and approximately 94 percent in fiscal 2010. for a general description of our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, including a discussion of revenue generated thereunder and of cost-reimbursable versus fixed-price contracts, see item 1. business principal customers; government contracts of this report. the funded backlog of unfilled orders for this segment was $875 million at june 29, 2012 compared with $775 million at july 1, 2011 and $848 million at july 2, 2010. unfunded backlog for this segment was $2,763 million at june 29, 2012 compared with $3,193 million at july 1, 2011 and $2,504 million at july 2, 2010. we expect to fill approximately 83 percent of this funded backlog during fiscal 2013, but we can give no assurance of such fulfillment. additional information regarding funded and unfunded backlog is provided under item 1. business funded and unfunded backlog of this report. for a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, see item 1. business principal customers; government contracts, item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this report. international business revenue from products and services exported from the united states (including foreign military sales) or manufactured or rendered abroad was $1,330.1 million (24 percent of our total revenue) in fiscal 2012 compared with $1,003.4 million (19 percent of our total revenue) in fiscal 2011 and $454.1 million (10 percent of our total revenue) in fiscal 2010. essentially all of the international sales are derived from our rf communications and integrated network solutions segments. direct export sales are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars, whereas sales from foreign subsidiaries are generally denominated in the local currency of the subsidiary. financial information regarding our domestic and international operations is contained in note 24: business segments in the notes and is incorporated herein by reference. the majority of our international marketing activities are conducted through subsidiaries which operate in canada, europe, the middle east, africa, central and south america, and asia. we have also established international marketing organizations and several regional sales offices. for further information regarding our international subsidiaries, see exhibit 21 subsidiaries of the registrant of this report. we utilize indirect sales channels, including dealers, distributors and sales representatives, in the marketing and sale of some lines of products and equipment, both domestically and internationally. these independent representatives may buy for resale or, in some cases, solicit orders from commercial or governmental customers for direct sales by us. prices to the ultimate customer in many instances may be recommended or established by the independent representative and may be above or below our list prices. our dealers and distributors generally receive a discount from our list prices and may mark up those prices in setting the final sales prices paid by the customer. revenue from indirect sales channels in fiscal 2012 represented 12 percent of our total revenue and approximately 48 percent of our international revenue, compared with revenue from indirect sales channels in fiscal 2011 representing 10 percent of our total revenue and approximately 49 percent of our international revenue, and revenue from indirect sales channels in fiscal 2010 representing 6 percent of our total revenue and approximately 54 percent of our international revenue. fiscal 2012 international revenue came from a large number of countries, and no such single country accounted for more than 3 percent of our total revenue. some of our exports are paid for by letters of credit, with the balance carried either on an open account or installment note basis. advance payments, progress payments or other similar payments received prior to or upon shipment often cover most of the related costs incurred. significant foreign government contracts generally require us to provide performance guarantees. in order to stay competitive in international markets, we also sometimes enter into recourse and vendor financing arrangements to facilitate sales to certain customers. the particular economic, social and political conditions for business conducted outside the united states differ from those encountered by domestic businesses. our management believes that the overall business risk for the international business as a whole is somewhat greater than that faced by our domestic operations as a whole. a description of the types of risks to which we are subject in international business is contained in item 1a. risk factors of this report. nevertheless, in the opinion of our management, these risks are partially mitigated by the diversification of the international business and the protection provided by letters of credit and advance payments. competition we operate in highly competitive markets that are sensitive to technological advances. although successful product and systems development is not necessarily dependent on substantial financial resources, many of our competitors in each of our businesses are larger than we are and can maintain higher levels of expenditures for research 11 table of contents and development. in each of our businesses we concentrate on the market opportunities that our management believes are compatible with our resources, overall technological capabilities and objectives. principal competitive factors in these businesses are product quality and reliability; technological capabilities; service; past performance; ability to develop and implement complex, integrated solutions; ability to meet delivery schedules; the effectiveness of third-party sales channels in international markets; and cost-effectiveness. within the it services market, there is intense competition among many companies. the ability to compete in the it services market depends on a number of factors, including the capability to deploy skilled professionals at competitive prices across the diverse spectrum of the it services market. in the rf communications segment, principal competitors include european aeronautic defence and space company n.v. ( eads ), general dynamics, itt exelis, motorola solutions, raytheon, rohde &amp; schwarz, tadiran and thales. in the integrated network solutions segment, principal competitors include aetna medicity, caci, computer sciences corporation, dell, eads/vizada, general dynamics, globecomm, health care dataworks, hewlett packard, ibm, lockheed martin, mantech, mtn, nci information systems, northrop grumman, optum, orion health, raytheon, rignet, saic, stratos, tcs, telos corporation, and the advisory board company, as well as other smaller companies and divisions of large companies. in the government communications systems segment, principal competitors include bae systems, boeing, general dynamics, l-3 communications, lockheed martin, northrop grumman, raytheon and rockwell collins. we frequently partner or are involved in subcontracting and teaming relationships with companies that are, from time to time, competitors on other programs. principal customers; government contracts sales to u.s. government customers, including the dod and intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military sales funded through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, were 70 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2012 compared with 78 percent in fiscal 2011 and 82 percent in fiscal 2010. no other customer accounted for more than 3 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2012. additional information regarding customers for each of our segments is provided under item 1. business description of business by segment of this report. our u.s. government sales are predominantly derived from contracts with agencies of, and prime contractors to, the u.s. government. most of the sales of our government communications systems segment and of the portions of our integrated networks solutions segment operations in connection with u.s. government programs are made directly or indirectly to the u.s. government under contracts or subcontracts containing standard government contract clauses providing for redetermination of profits, if applicable, and for termination for the convenience of the u.s. government or for default based upon performance. our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts include both cost-reimbursable and fixed-price contracts. governmentwide acquisition contracts ( gwacs ) and idiq contracts, which can include task orders for each contract type, require us to compete both for the initial contract and then for individual task or delivery orders under such contracts. our u.s. government cost-reimbursable contracts provide for the reimbursement of allowable costs plus the payment of a fee. our u.s. government cost-reimbursable contracts fall into three basic types: (i) cost-plus fixed-fee contracts, which provide for the payment of a fixed fee irrespective of the final cost of performance; (ii) cost-plus incentive-fee contracts, which provide for increases or decreases in the fee, within specified limits, based upon actual results compared with contractual targets relating to factors such as cost, performance and delivery schedule; and (iii) cost-plus award-fee contracts, which provide for the payment of an award fee determined at the discretion of the customer based upon the performance of the contractor against pre-established performance criteria. under our u.s. government cost-reimbursable contracts, we are reimbursed periodically for allowable costs and are paid a portion of the fee based on contract progress. some overhead costs have been made partially or wholly unallowable for reimbursement by statute or regulation. examples are certain merger and acquisition costs, lobbying costs, charitable contributions and certain litigation defense costs. our u.s. government fixed-price contracts are either firm fixed-price contracts or fixed-price incentive contracts. under our u.s. government firm fixed-price contracts, we agree to perform a specific scope of work for a fixed price and, as a result, benefit from cost savings and carry the burden of cost overruns. under our u.s. government fixed-price incentive contracts, we share with the u.s. government both savings accrued from contracts performed for less than target costs as well as costs incurred in excess of targets up to a negotiated ceiling price (which is higher than the target cost), but carry the entire burden of costs exceeding the negotiated ceiling price. accordingly, under such incentive contracts, profit may also be adjusted up or down depending upon whether specified performance objectives are met. under our u.s. government firm fixed-price and fixed-price incentive contracts, we usually receive either 12 table of contents milestone payments equaling 100 percent of the contract price or monthly progress payments from the u.s. government in amounts equaling 80 percent of costs incurred under the contract. the remaining amounts, including profits or incentive fees, are billed upon delivery and final acceptance of end items and deliverables under the contract. our u.s. government fixed-price contracts generally have higher profit margins than our u.s. government cost-reimbursable contracts. our production contracts are mainly fixed-price contracts, and development contracts are generally cost-reimbursable contracts. as stated above, u.s. government contracts are terminable for the convenience of the u.s. government, as well as for default based on performance. companies supplying goods and services to the u.s. government are dependent on congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of funds and may be affected by changes in u.s. government policies resulting from various military, political, economic and international developments. long-term u.s. government contracts and related orders are subject to cancellation if appropriations for subsequent performance periods become unavailable. under contracts terminable for the convenience of the u.s. government, a contractor is entitled to receive payments for its allowable costs and, in general, the proportionate share of fees or earnings for the work done. contracts that are terminable for default generally provide that the u.s. government pays only for the work it has accepted and may require the contractor to pay for the incremental cost of reprocurement and may hold the contractor liable for damages. in many cases, there is also uncertainty relating to the complexity of designs, necessity for design improvements and difficulty in forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work. under many u.s. government contracts, we are required to maintain facility and personnel security clearances complying with dod and other federal agency requirements. for further discussion of risks relating to u.s. government contracts, see item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this report. funded and unfunded backlog our total company-wide funded and unfunded backlog was approximately $6,993 million at june 29, 2012 compared with approximately $7,523 million at july 1, 2011 and $6,266 million at july 2, 2010. the funded portion of this backlog was approximately $3,056 million at june 29, 2012 compared with approximately $3,035 million at july 1, 2011 and $2,991 million at july 2, 2010. the determination of backlog involves substantial estimating, particularly with respect to customer requirements contracts and development and production contracts of a cost-reimbursable or incentive nature. we define funded backlog as unfilled firm orders for products and services for which funding has been authorized and, in the case of u.s. government agencies, appropriated. we define unfunded backlog as primarily unfilled firm contract value for which funding has not yet been authorized or, in the case of u.s. government agencies, appropriated, including the value of contract options in cases of material contracts that have options we believe are probable of being exercised. we do not include potential task or delivery orders under idiq contracts in our backlog. in fiscal 2013, we expect to fill approximately 67 percent of our total funded backlog as of june 29, 2012. however, we can give no assurance of such fulfillment or that our funded backlog will become revenue in any particular period, if at all. backlog is subject to delivery delays and program cancellations, which are beyond our control. additional information with regard to the backlog of each of our segments is provided under item 1. business description of business by segment of this report. research, development and engineering research, development and engineering expenditures totaled approximately $914 million in fiscal 2012, $887 million in fiscal 2011 and $949 million in fiscal 2010. company-sponsored research and product development costs, which included research and development for commercial products and services and independent research and development related to government products and services, as well as concept formulation studies and bid and proposal efforts, were approximately $219 million in fiscal 2012, $240 million in fiscal 2011 and $228 million in fiscal 2010. a portion of our independent research and development costs are allocated among contracts and programs in process under u.s. government contractual arrangements. company-sponsored research and product development costs not otherwise allocable are charged to expense when incurred. the portion of total research, development and engineering expenditures that was not company-sponsored was funded by the u.s. government and is included in our revenue. customer-sponsored research and development was $695 million in fiscal 2012, $647 million in fiscal 2011 and $721 million in fiscal 2010. company-sponsored research is directed to the development of new products and services and to building technological capability in selected communications and electronic systems markets. u.s. government-funded research helps strengthen and broaden our technical capabilities. all of our segments maintain their own engineering and new product development departments, with scientific assistance provided by advanced-technology departments. as of june 29, 2012, we employed approximately 6,400 engineers and scientists and are continuing efforts to make the technologies developed in any of our operating segments available for all other operating segments. 13 table of contents patents and other intellectual property we consider our patents and other intellectual property, in the aggregate, to constitute an important asset. we routinely apply for and own a large and valuable portfolio of patents, trade secrets, know-how, confidential information, trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property. we also license intellectual property to and from third parties. as of june 29, 2012, we held approximately 950 u.s. patents and 1,054 foreign patents, and had approximately 473 u.s. patent applications pending (and 1,173 foreign patent applications pending). unpatented research, development and engineering skills also make an important contribution to our business. while our intellectual property rights in the aggregate are important to our business and the operations of our operating segments, we do not consider our business or any operating segment to be materially dependent upon any single patent, license or other intellectual property right, or any group of related patents, licenses or other intellectual property rights. we are engaged in a proactive patent licensing program and have entered into a number of licenses and cross-license agreements, some of which generate royalty income. although existing license agreements have generated income in past years and may do so in the future, there can be no assurances we will enter into additional income-producing license agreements. from time to time we engage in litigation to protect our patents and other intellectual property. any of our patents, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights and other proprietary rights could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or may not provide competitive advantages. for further discussion of risks relating to intellectual property, see item 1a. risk factors of this report. with regard to patents relating to our government communications systems segment, the u.s. government often has an irrevocable, non-exclusive, royalty-free license, pursuant to which the u.s. government may use or authorize others to use the inventions covered by such patents. pursuant to similar arrangements, the u.s. government may consent to our use of inventions covered by patents owned by other persons. numerous trademarks used on or in connection with our products are also considered to be a valuable asset. environmental and other regulations our facilities and operations are subject to numerous domestic and international laws and regulations designed to protect the environment, particularly with regard to wastes and emissions. the applicable environmental laws and regulations are common within the industries and markets in which we operate and serve. we believe that we have complied with these requirements and that such compliance has not had a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. based upon currently available information, we do not expect expenditures over the next several years to protect the environment and to comply with current environmental laws and regulations, as well as to comply with current and pending climate control legislation, regulation, treaties and accords, to have a material impact on our competitive position or financial condition, but we can give no assurance that such expenditures will not exceed current expectations. if future treaties, laws and regulations contain more stringent requirements than presently anticipated, actual expenditures may be higher than our present estimates of those expenditures. we have installed waste treatment facilities and pollution control equipment to satisfy legal requirements and to achieve our waste minimization and prevention goals. we did not spend material amounts on environmental capital projects in fiscal 2012, fiscal 2011 or fiscal 2010. a portion of our environmental expenditures relates to historic discontinued operations (other than cis and broadcast communications) for which we have retained certain environmental liabilities. we currently expect that amounts to be spent for environmental-related capital projects will not be material in fiscal 2013. these amounts may increase in future years. additional information regarding environmental and regulatory matters is set forth in item 3. legal proceedings of this report and in note 1: significant accounting policies in the notes. electronic products are subject to governmental environmental regulation in a number of jurisdictions. equipment produced by our integrated network solutions segment, in particular, is subject to domestic and international requirements requiring end-of-life management and/or restricting materials in products delivered to customers, including the european union directive 2002/96/ec on waste electrical and electronic equipment and directive 2002/95/ec on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment ( rohs ), as amended. other jurisdictions have adopted similar legislation. such requirements typically are not applicable to most equipment produced by our government communications systems and rf communications segments. we believe that we have complied with such rules and regulations, where applicable, with respect to our existing products sold into such jurisdictions. we intend to comply with such rules and regulations with respect to our future products. wireless communications (whether radio, satellite or telecommunications) are also subject to governmental regulation. equipment produced by our integrated network solutions and rf communications segments, in particular, is subject to domestic and international requirements to avoid interference among users of radio and television frequencies and to permit interconnection of telecommunications equipment. additionally, harris caprock communications holds licenses for very small aperture terminals and satellite earth stations, which authorize operation 14 table of contents of networks and teleports. we are also required to comply with technical operating and licensing requirements that pertain to our wireless licenses and operations. we believe that we have complied with such rules and regulations and licenses with respect to our existing products and services, and we intend to comply with such rules and regulations and licenses with respect to our future products and services. governmental reallocation of the frequency spectrum also could impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. raw materials and supplies because of the diversity of our products and services, as well as the wide geographic dispersion of our facilities, we use numerous sources for the wide array of raw materials (such as electronic components, printed circuit boards, metals and plastics) needed for our operations and for our products. we are dependent upon suppliers and subcontractors for a large number of components and subsystems and the ability of our suppliers and subcontractors to adhere to customer or regulatory materials restrictions and to meet performance and quality specifications and delivery schedules. in some instances, we are dependent upon one or a few sources, either because of the specialized nature of a particular item or because of local content preference requirements pursuant to which we operate on a given project. while we have been affected by financial and performance issues of some of our suppliers and subcontractors, we have not been materially adversely affected by the inability to obtain raw materials or products. on occasion, we have experienced component shortages from vendors as a result of natural disasters, or the rohs environmental regulations in the european union or similar regulations in other jurisdictions. these events or regulations may cause a spike in demand for certain electronic components (such as lead-free components), resulting in industry-wide supply chain shortages. to date, these component shortages have not had a material adverse effect on our business. for further discussion of risks relating to subcontractors and suppliers, see item 1a. risk factors of this report. seasonality we do not consider any material portion of our business to be seasonal. various factors can affect the distribution of our revenue between accounting periods, including the timing of contract awards and the timing and availability of u.s. government funding, as well as the timing of product deliveries and customer acceptance. employees we employed approximately 15,200 at the end of fiscal 2012 compared with approximately 15,000 employees at the end of fiscal 2011. approximately 90 percent of our employees as of the end of fiscal 2012 were located in the united states. a significant number of our employees possess a u.s. government security clearance. we also utilize a number of independent contractors. none of our employees in the united states is represented by a labor union. in certain international subsidiaries, our employees are represented by workers councils or statutory labor unions. in general, we believe that our relations with our employees are good. website access to harris reports; available information general. we maintain an internet website at http://harris.com. our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to such reports, filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act, are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the securities and exchange commission (the sec ). we also will provide the reports in electronic or paper form free of charge upon request. we also make available free of charge on our website our annual report to shareholders and proxy statement. our website and the information posted thereon are not incorporated into this report or any current or other periodic report that we file with or furnish to the sec. all reports we file with or furnish to the sec also are available free of charge via the sec electronic data gathering and retrieval, or edgar, system available through the sec website at http://www.sec.gov . additional information relating to our businesses, including our operating segments, is set forth in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report. corporate governance principles and committee charters. we previously adopted corporate governance principles, which are available on the corporate governance section of our website at http://harris.com/corporate_governance/ . in addition, the charters of each of the standing committees of our board, namely, the audit committee, business conduct and corporate responsibility committee, corporate governance committee, finance committee and management development and compensation committee, are also available on the corporate governance section of our website. a copy of the charters is also available free of charge upon written request to our secretary at harris corporation, 1025 west nasa boulevard, melbourne, florida 32919. certifications. we have filed with the sec the certifications required by section 302 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 as exhibits to this report. in addition, an annual ceo certification was submitted by our chief executive 15 table of contents officer to the new york stock exchange ( nyse ) in october 2011 in accordance with the nyse listing standards, which included a certification that he was not aware of any violation by harris of the nyse corporate governance listing standards. item 1a. risk factors. we have described many of the trends and other factors that we believe could impact our business and future results in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report. in addition, our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition are subject to, and could be materially adversely affected by, various risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, those set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or our anticipated future results. we depend on u.s. government customers for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of this relationship or a shift in u.s. government funding priorities could have adverse consequences on our future business. we are highly dependent on sales to u.s. government customers. the percentage of our net revenue that was derived from sales to u.s. government customers, including the dod and intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military sales funded through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, was approximately 70 percent in fiscal 2012, 78 percent in fiscal 2011 and 82 percent in fiscal 2010. therefore, any significant disruption or deterioration of our relationship with the u.s. government would significantly reduce our revenue. our competitors continuously engage in efforts to expand their business relationships with the u.s. government and will continue these efforts in the future, and the u.s. government may choose to use other contractors. we expect that a majority of the business that we seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through competitive bidding. the u.s. government has increasingly relied on certain types of contracts that are subject to a competitive bidding process, including idiq, gwac, general services administration schedule and other multi-award contracts, which has resulted in greater competition and increased pricing pressure. we operate in highly competitive markets and our competitors may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do in some areas, and we may not be able to continue to win competitively awarded contracts or to obtain task orders under multi-award contracts. further, the competitive bidding process involves significant cost and managerial time to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us, as well as the risk that we may fail to accurately estimate the resources and costs required to fulfill any contract awarded to us. following any contract award, we may experience significant expense or delay, contract modification or contract rescission as a result of our competitors protesting or challenging contracts awarded to us in competitive bidding. our u.s. government programs must compete with programs managed by other government contractors and with other policy imperatives for consideration for limited resources and for uncertain levels of funding during the budget and appropriation process. budget and appropriations decisions made by the u.s. government are outside of our control and have long-term consequences for our business. u.s. government spending priorities and dod spending levels are becoming increasingly uncertain and difficult to predict and will be affected by numerous factors, including whether sequestration (automatic, across-the-board u.s. government budgetary spending cuts) currently required under the budget control act of 2011 will take effect in january 2013 and the actual impact on the dod budget and other programs if sequestration does take effect or is superseded by alternate arrangements. a shift in u.s. government spending priorities or an increase in non-procurement spending at the expense of our programs (for example, through in-sourcing ), or a reduction in total u.s. government spending, could have material adverse consequences on our future business. we depend significantly on u.s. government contracts, which often are only partially funded, subject to immediate termination, and heavily regulated and audited. the termination or failure to fund, or negative audit findings for, one or more of these contracts could have an adverse impact on our business. over its lifetime, a u.s. government program may be implemented by the award of many different individual contracts and subcontracts. the funding of u.s. government programs is subject to congressional appropriations. although multi-year contracts may be authorized and appropriated in connection with major procurements, congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis. procurement funds are typically made available for obligation over the course of three years. consequently, programs often receive only partial funding initially, and additional funds are obligated only as congress authorizes further appropriations. the termination of funding for a u.s. government program would result in a loss of anticipated future revenue attributable to that program, which could have an adverse impact on our operations. in addition, the termination of a program or the failure to commit additional funds to a program that already has been started could result in lost revenue and increase our overall costs of doing business. generally, u.s. government contracts are subject to oversight audits by u.s. government representatives. such audits could result in adjustments to our contract costs. any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, and such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. we have recorded contract 16 table of contents revenues based upon costs we expect to realize upon final audit. however, we do not know the outcome of any future audits and adjustments and we may be required to materially reduce our revenues or profits upon completion and final negotiation of audits. negative audit findings could also result in termination of a contract, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the u.s. government. in addition, u.s. government contracts generally contain provisions permitting termination, in whole or in part, without prior notice at the u.s. government convenience upon the payment only for work done and commitments made at the time of termination. we can give no assurance that one or more of our u.s. government contracts will not be terminated under these circumstances. also, we can give no assurance that we would be able to procure new contracts to offset the revenue or backlog lost as a result of any termination of our u.s. government contracts. because a significant portion of our revenue is dependent on our performance and payment under our u.s. government contracts, the loss of one or more large contracts could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. our government business also is subject to specific procurement regulations and a variety of socio-economic and other requirements. these requirements, although customary in u.s. government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. these costs might increase in the future, thereby reducing our margins, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could lead to fines, penalties, repayments, or compensatory or treble damages, or suspension or debarment from u.s. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. among the causes for debarment are violations of various laws, including those related to procurement integrity, export control, u.s. government security regulations, employment practices, protection of the environment, accuracy of records, proper recording of costs and foreign corruption. the termination of a u.s. government contract or relationship as a result of any of these acts would have an adverse impact on our operations and could have an adverse effect on our standing and eligibility for future u.s. government contracts. we enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses in the event of cost overruns or a significant increase in inflation. we have a number of firm fixed-price contracts. these contracts allow us to benefit from cost savings, but they carry the risk of potential cost overruns because we assume all of the cost burden. if our initial estimates are incorrect, we can lose money on these contracts. u.s. government contracts can expose us to potentially large losses because the u.s. government can hold us responsible for completing a project or, in certain circumstances, paying the entire cost of its replacement by another provider regardless of the size or foreseeability of any cost overruns that occur over the life of the contract. because many of these contracts involve new technologies and applications and can last for years, unforeseen events, such as technological difficulties, fluctuations in the price of raw materials, problems with our suppliers and cost overruns, can result in the contractual price becoming less favorable or even unprofitable to us over time. the united states also may experience a significant increase in inflation. a significant increase in inflation rates could have a significant adverse impact on the profitability of these contracts. furthermore, if we do not meet contract deadlines or specifications, we may need to renegotiate contracts on less favorable terms, be forced to pay penalties or liquidated damages or suffer major losses if the customer exercises its right to terminate. in addition, some of our contracts have provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights, and if we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts we may not realize their full benefits. our results of operations are dependent on our ability to maximize our earnings from our contracts. cost overruns could have an adverse impact on our financial results. the potential impact of such risk on our financial results would increase if the mix of our contracts and programs shifted toward a greater percentage of firm fixed-price contracts. we could be negatively impacted by a security breach, through cyber attack, cyber intrusion or otherwise, or other significant disruption of our it networks and related systems or of those we operate for certain of our customers. we face the risk, as does any company, of a security breach, whether through cyber attack or cyber intrusion over the internet, malware, computer viruses, attachments to e-mails, persons inside our organization or persons with access to systems inside our organization, or other significant disruption of our it networks and related systems. we face an added risk of a security breach or other significant disruption of the it networks and related systems that we develop, install, operate and maintain for certain of our customers, which may involve managing and protecting information relating to national security and other sensitive government functions. the risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. as a communications and it company, and particularly as a government contractor, we face a heightened risk of a security breach or disruption from threats to gain unauthorized access to our and our customers proprietary or classified information on our it networks and related systems and to the it networks and related systems that we operate and maintain for certain of our customers. these types of information and it networks and 17 table of contents related systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day-to-day operations, and, in some cases, are critical to the operations of certain of our customers. although we make significant efforts to maintain the security and integrity of these types of information and it networks and related systems, and we have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption, there can be no assurance that our security efforts and measures will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging. even the most well protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because attempted security breaches, particularly cyber attacks and intrusions, or disruptions will occur in the future, and because the techniques used in such attempts are constantly evolving and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed not be detected and, in fact, may not be detected. in some cases, the resources of foreign governments may be behind such attacks. accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures, and thus it is virtually impossible for us to entirely mitigate this risk. a security breach or other significant disruption involving these types of information and it networks and related systems could: disrupt the proper functioning of these networks and systems and therefore our operations and/or those of certain of our customers; result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of proprietary, confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable information of ours or our customers, including trade secrets, which others could use to compete against us or for disruptive, destructive or otherwise harmful purposes and outcomes; compromise national security and other sensitive government functions; require significant management attention and resources to remedy the damages that result; subject us to claims for contract breach, damages, credits, penalties or termination; and damage our reputation with our customers (particularly agencies of the u.s. government) and the public generally. any or all of the foregoing could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we derive a significant portion of our revenue from international operations and are subject to the risks of doing business internationally, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates. we are dependent on sales to customers outside the united states. in fiscal 2012, fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010, revenue from products and services exported from the u.s. or manufactured or rendered abroad was 24 percent, 19 percent and 10 percent, respectively, of our total revenue. approximately 28 percent of our international business in fiscal 2012 was transacted in local currency. losses resulting from currency rate fluctuations can adversely affect our results. we expect that international revenue will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue. also, a significant portion of our international revenue is from, and an increasing portion of our business activity is being conducted in, less-developed countries. we are subject to risks of doing business internationally, including: currency exchange controls, fluctuations of currency and currency revaluations; the laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments relating to investments and operations, as well as u.s. laws affecting the activities of u.s. companies abroad, including the foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ); changes in regulatory requirements, including business or operating license requirements, imposition of tariffs or embargoes, export controls and other trade restrictions; uncertainties and restrictions concerning the availability of funding, credit or guarantees; the complexity and necessity of using, and disruptions involving our, international dealers, distributors, sales representatives and consultants; the difficulties of managing a geographically dispersed organization and culturally diverse workforces, including compliance with local laws and practices; difficulties associated with repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner and changes in tax laws; import and export licensing requirements and regulations, as well as unforeseen changes in export regulations; uncertainties as to local laws and enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights and occasional requirements for onerous contract clauses; and rapid changes in government, economic and political policies, political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of international boycotts or u.s. anti-boycott legislation. 18 table of contents our reputation and ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of our employees, agents or business partners. we have implemented compliance controls, policies and procedures designed to prevent reckless or criminal acts from being committed by our employees, agents or business partners that would violate the laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including laws governing payments to government officials (such as the fcpa), and to detect any such reckless or criminal acts committed. we cannot ensure, however, that our controls, policies and procedures will prevent or detect all such reckless or criminal acts. if not prevented, such reckless or criminal acts could subject us to civil or criminal investigations and monetary and non-monetary penalties and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct business, our results of operations and our reputation. we may not be successful in obtaining the necessary export licenses to conduct certain operations abroad, and congress may prevent proposed sales to certain foreign governments. we must first obtain export and other licenses and authorizations from various u.s. government agencies before we are permitted to sell certain products and technologies outside of the united states. for example, the u.s. department of state must notify congress at least 15-60 days, depending on the size and location of the proposed sale, prior to authorizing certain sales of defense equipment and services to foreign governments. during that time, congress may take action to block the proposed sale. we can give no assurance that we will continue to be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses or authorizations or that congress will not prevent or delay certain sales. any significant impairment of our ability to sell products or technologies outside of the united states could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. the continued effects of the general downturn and weakness in the global economy and the u.s. government budget deficits and national debt and potential sequestration could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results or financial condition. there has been a general downturn and weakness in the global economy and the economies of the united states, and many foreign countries in which we do business continue to show weakness. we are unable to predict the impact, severity and duration of these economic events. the continued effects of the general downturn and weakness in the global economy and the u.s. government budget deficits and national debt could have an adverse impact on our business, operations results or financial condition in a number of ways. possible effects of these economic conditions include the following: the u.s. government could reduce or delay its spending on, or reprioritize its spending away from, the government programs in which we participate; the u.s. government may be unable to complete its budget process before the end of its fiscal year on september 30 and thus would be required either to shut down or be funded pursuant to a continuing resolution that authorizes agencies of the u.s. government to continue operations but does not authorize new spending initiatives, either of which could result in reduced or delayed orders or payments for products and services we provide. while this historically has not had a material adverse impact on our business, operating results or financial condition, if the u.s. government budget process results in a shutdown or prolonged operation under a continuing resolution, it may decrease our revenues, profitability or cash flows or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition; sequestration currently required under the budget control act of 2011 may take effect in january 2013 or may be superseded by alternate arrangements, the actual impact of which on the dod budget and other programs is uncertain and difficult to predict; we may experience declines in revenues, profitability and cash flows as a result of reduced or delayed orders or payments or other factors caused by the economic problems of our customers and prospective customers (including u.s. federal, state and local governments); we may experience supply chain delays, disruptions or other problems associated with financial constraints faced by our suppliers and subcontractors; and we may incur increased costs or experience difficulty with future borrowings under our commercial paper program or credit facilities or in the debt markets, or otherwise with financing our operating, investing (including any future acquisitions) or financing activities. our future success will depend on our ability to develop new products, services and technologies that achieve market acceptance in our current and future markets. both our commercial and government businesses are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry standards. accordingly, our performance depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: identify emerging technological trends in our current and target markets; 19 table of contents develop and maintain competitive products and services; enhance our offerings by adding innovative hardware, software or other features that differentiate our products and services from those of our competitors; and develop, manufacture and bring to market cost-effective offerings quickly. we believe that, in order to remain competitive in the future, we will need to continue to develop new products, services and technologies, requiring the investment of significant financial resources. the need to make these expenditures could divert our attention and resources from other projects, and we cannot be sure that these expenditures ultimately will lead to the timely development of new products, services or technologies. due to the design complexity of some of our products, services and technologies, we may experience delays in completing development and introducing new products, services or technologies in the future. any delays could result in increased costs of development or redirect resources from other projects. in addition, we cannot provide assurances that the markets for our products, services or technologies will develop as we currently anticipate. the failure of our products, services or technologies to gain market acceptance could significantly reduce our revenue and harm our business. furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing products, services or technologies that gain market acceptance in advance of our products, services or technologies, or that our competitors will not develop new products, services or technologies that cause our existing products, services or technologies to become non-competitive or obsolete, which could adversely affect our results of operations. the future direction of the domestic and global economies, including its impact on customer demand, also will have a significant impact on our overall performance. we participate in markets that are often subject to uncertain economic conditions, which makes it difficult to estimate growth in our markets and, as a result, future income and expenditures. we participate in u.s. and international markets that are subject to uncertain economic conditions. in particular, u.s. government spending priorities and dod spending levels are becoming increasingly uncertain and difficult to predict and will be affected by numerous factors, including whether sequestration currently required under the budget control act of 2011 will take effect in january 2013 and the actual impact on the dod budget and other programs if sequestration does take effect or is superseded by alternate arrangements. as a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth in the markets in which we participate. because all components of our budgeting and forecasting are dependent upon estimates of growth in the markets we serve, the uncertainty renders estimates of or guidance relating to future revenue, income and expenditures even more difficult. as a result, we may make significant investments and expenditures but never realize the anticipated benefits. we cannot predict the consequences of future geo-political events, but they may adversely affect the markets in which we operate, our ability to insure against risks, our operations or our profitability. ongoing instability and current conflicts in the middle east and asia and the potential for further conflicts and future terrorist activities and other recent geo-political events throughout the world have created economic and political uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and profitability. these matters cause uncertainty in the world financial and insurance markets and may increase significantly the political, economic and social instability in the geographic areas in which we operate. these matters also have caused the premiums charged for our insurance coverages to increase and may cause further increases or some coverages to be unavailable altogether. we have made, and may continue to make, strategic acquisitions and divestitures that involve significant risks and uncertainties. we have made, and we may continue to make, strategic acquisitions and divestitures that involve significant risks and uncertainties. these risks and uncertainties include: difficulty in identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions, including the risk that our due diligence does not identify or fully assess valuation issues, potential liabilities or other acquisition risks; difficulty in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations, including combining product and service offerings, and in entering into new markets in which we are not experienced, in an efficient and cost-effective manner while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures, and the risk that we encounter significant unanticipated costs or other problems associated with integration; difficulty in consolidating and rationalizing it infrastructure, which may include multiple legacy systems from various acquisitions and integrating software code; challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits expected from acquisitions; risk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the strategic acquisitions and divestitures do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; 20 table of contents risk that we assume significant liabilities that exceed the limitations of any applicable indemnification provisions or the financial resources of any indemnifying parties; potential loss of key employees or customers of the businesses acquired or to be divested; risk that we are not able to complete strategic divestitures on satisfactory terms and conditions or within expected timeframes; and risk of diverting the attention of senior management from our existing operations. disputes with our subcontractors and the inability of our subcontractors to perform, or our key suppliers to timely deliver our components, parts or services, could cause our products or services to be produced or delivered in an untimely or unsatisfactory manner. on many of our contracts, we engage subcontractors. we may have disputes with our subcontractors, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor, customer concerns about the subcontract, our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders under a subcontract, our hiring of the personnel of a subcontractor or vice versa or the subcontractor failure to comply with applicable law. in addition, there are certain parts, components and services for many of our products and services which we source from other manufacturers or vendors. some of our suppliers, from time to time, experience financial and operational difficulties, which may impact their ability to supply the materials, components, subsystems and services that we require. our supply chain could also be disrupted by external events, such as natural disasters or other significant disruptions (including extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics, acts of terrorism, cyber attacks and labor disputes), governmental actions and legislative or regulatory changes (including product certification or stewardship requirements, sourcing restrictions, product authenticity and climate change or greenhouse gas emission standards). any inability to develop alternative sources of supply on a cost-effective and timely basis could materially impair our ability to manufacture and deliver products and services to our customers. we can give no assurances that we will be free from disputes with our subcontractors, material supply problems or component, subsystems or services problems in the future. also, our subcontractors and other suppliers may not be able to acquire or maintain the quality of the materials, components, subsystems and services they supply, which might result in greater product returns, service problems and warranty claims and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. third parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their intellectual property rights, and third parties may infringe upon our intellectual property rights. many of the markets we serve are characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights, which often has resulted in protracted and expensive litigation. third parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing or to have infringed directly or indirectly upon those intellectual property rights. claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. moreover, we may not be able to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us, or at all. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain of our products, services and solutions. our success depends in large part on our proprietary technology. we rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, know-how, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. if we fail to successfully protect and enforce these rights, our competitive position could suffer. our pending patent and trademark registration applications may not be allowed, or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents or trademark registrations. in addition, our patents may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and police our intellectual property rights. we may not be able to detect infringement and our competitive position may be harmed before we do so. in addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. the outcome of litigation or arbitration in which we are involved is unpredictable and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. from time to time, we are defendants in a number of litigation matters and are involved in a number of arbitrations. these actions may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. no assurances can be given that the results of these or new matters will be favorable to us. an adverse resolution of lawsuits or arbitrations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we face certain significant risk exposures and potential liabilities that may not be covered adequately by insurance or indemnity. we are exposed to liabilities that are unique to the products and services we provide. a significant portion of our business relates to designing, developing and manufacturing advanced defense, technology and communications 21 table of contents systems and products. new technologies associated with these systems and products may be untested or unproven. components of certain of the defense systems and products we develop are inherently dangerous. failures of satellites, missile systems, air traffic control systems, homeland security applications and aircraft have the potential to cause loss of life and extensive property damage. in most circumstances, we may receive indemnification from the u.s. government. while we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, and we may be forced to bear substantial costs from an accident or incident. it also is not possible for us to obtain insurance to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. substantial claims resulting from an incident in excess of u.s. government indemnity and our insurance coverage would harm our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. moreover, any accident or incident for which we are liable, even if fully insured, could negatively affect our standing with our customers and the public, thereby making it more difficult for us to compete effectively, and could significantly impact the cost and availability of adequate insurance in the future. changes in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. our future effective tax rate may be adversely affected by a number of factors including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not fully deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairment of goodwill or other long-term assets in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation expense; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; changes in domestic or international tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws; and the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact our results of operations for future periods. we have significant operations in locations that could be materially and adversely impacted in the event of a natural disaster or other significant disruption. our corporate headquarters and significant operations of our government communications systems segment are located in florida, where major hurricanes have occurred. our worldwide operations and operations of our suppliers could be subject to natural disasters or other significant disruptions, including hurricanes, typhoons, tsunamis, floods, earthquakes, fires, water shortages, other extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics, acts of terrorism, power shortages and blackouts, telecommunications failures, cyber attacks and other natural and manmade disasters or disruptions. in the event of such a natural disaster or other disruption, we could experience disruptions or interruptions to our operations or the operations of our suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers or customers; destruction of facilities; and/or loss of life, all of which could materially increase our costs and expenses and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in the regulatory framework under which our managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions operations are operated could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. our domestic satellite and terrestrial communications solutions are currently provided on a private carrier basis and are therefore subject to lighter regulation by the federal communications commission and other federal, state and local agencies than if provided on a common carrier basis. our international satellite and terrestrial communications solutions operations are regulated by governments of various countries other than the united states and by other international authorities. the regulatory regimes applicable to our international satellite and terrestrial communications solutions operations frequently require that we obtain and maintain licenses for our operations and conduct our operations in accordance with prescribed standards. compliance with such requirements may inhibit our ability to quickly expand our operations into new countries, including in circumstances in which such expansion is required in order to provide uninterrupted service to existing customers with mobile operations as they move to new locations on short notice. failure to comply with such regulatory requirements could subject us to various penalties or sanctions. the adoption of new laws or regulations, changes to the existing domestic or international regulatory framework, new interpretations of the laws that apply to our operations, or the loss of, or a material limitation on, any of our material licenses could materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. 22 table of contents we rely on third parties to provide satellite bandwidth for our managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions, and any bandwidth constraints could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. in our managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions operations, we compete for satellite bandwidth with other commercial entities, such as other satellite communications services providers and broadcasting companies, and with governmental entities, such as the military. in certain markets and at certain times, satellite bandwidth may be limited and/or pricing of satellite bandwidth could be subject to competitive pressure. in such cases, we may be unable to secure sufficient bandwidth needed to provide our managed satellite communications services, either at favorable rates or at all. this inability could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in future business or other market conditions could cause business investments and/or recorded goodwill or other long-term assets to become impaired, resulting in substantial losses and write-downs that would reduce our results of operations. as part of our overall strategy, we will, from time to time, acquire a minority or majority interest in a business. these investments are made upon careful analysis and due diligence procedures designed to achieve a desired return or strategic objective. these procedures often involve certain assumptions and judgment in determining acquisition price. after acquisition, unforeseen issues could arise which adversely affect the anticipated returns or which are otherwise not recoverable as an adjustment to the purchase price. even after careful integration efforts, actual operating results may vary significantly from initial estimates. goodwill accounted for approximately 30 percent of our recorded total assets as of june 29, 2012. we evaluate the recoverability of recorded goodwill annually, as well as when we change reportable segments and when events or circumstances indicate there may be an impairment. the annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. principally, a decrease in expected reportable segment cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill. for additional information on accounting policies we have in place for impairment of goodwill, see our discussion under critical accounting policies and estimates in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report and note 1: significant accounting policies and note 3: discontinued operations in the notes. we must attract and retain key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. our business has a continuing need to attract and retain significant numbers of skilled personnel, including personnel holding security clearances, to support our growth and to replace individuals who have terminated employment due to retirement or for other reasons. to the extent that the demand for qualified personnel exceeds supply, as has been the case from time to time in recent years, we could experience higher labor, recruiting or training costs in order to attract and retain such employees, or could experience difficulties in performing under our contracts if our needs for such employees were unmet. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 53 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of doing business, we are exposed to the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rates and changes in interest rates. we employ established policies and procedures governing the use of financial instruments to manage our exposure to such risks. for a discussion of such policies and procedures and the related risks, see financial risk management in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report, which is incorporated by reference into this item 7a. 53 table of contentsrisk factors 15 risk factors of this report. all forward-looking statements are qualified by, and should be read in conjunction with, those risk factors. forward-looking statements are made in reliance on the safe harbor provisions of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended (the securities act ), and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the exchange act ), and are made as of the date of filing of this report, and we undertake no obligation, other than imposed by law, to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or developments or otherwise, after the date of filing of this report or, in the case of any document incorporated by reference, the date of that document, and disclaim any intention or obligation to do so. part i item 1. business. harris harris corporation, together with its subsidiaries, is an international communications and information technology company serving government and commercial markets in more than 125 countries. we are dedicated to developing best-in-class assured communications &reg; products, systems and services for global markets, including rf communications, integrated network solutions and government communications systems. harris corporation was incorporated in delaware in 1926 as the successor to three companies founded in the 1890s. our principal executive offices are located at 1025 west nasa boulevard, melbourne, florida 32919, and our telephone number is (321) 727-9100. our common stock is listed on the new york stock exchange under the symbol hrs. on june 28, 2013, we had approximately 14,000 employees. unless the context otherwise requires, the terms we, our, us, company and harris as used in this report refer to harris corporation and its subsidiaries. general we structure our operations primarily around the products and services we sell and the markets we serve, and we report the financial results of our operations in the following three business segments: our rf communications segment, serving (i) u.s. department of defense and international tactical communications and (ii) public safety and professional communications markets; our integrated network solutions segment, serving (i) it services, (ii) managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions (which we sometimes refer to as harris caprock communications ) and (iii) healthcare solutions markets; and our government communications systems segment, serving (i) civil, (ii) national intelligence and (iii) defense markets. in the third quarter of fiscal 2012, our board of directors approved a plan to exit our cyber integrated solutions operation ( cis ), which provided remote cloud hosting, and to dispose of the related assets, and we reported cis as discontinued operations beginning with our financial results presented in our quarterly report on form 10-q for the third quarter of fiscal 2012. in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, our board of directors approved a plan to divest our broadcast communications operation ( broadcast communications ), that provided digital media management solutions in support of broadcast customers, and we reported broadcast communications as discontinued operations 1 table of contents beginning with our financial results presented in our annual report on form 10-k for fiscal 2012 (our fiscal 2012 form 10-k ). on february 4, 2013, we completed the sale of broadcast communications to an affiliate of the gores group, llc pursuant to a definitive asset sale agreement entered into december 5, 2012. both cis and broadcast communications were formerly part of our integrated network solutions segment. our historical financial results for periods prior to fiscal 2012 presented in this report, except for disclosures related to our cash flows, have been restated to account for cis and broadcast communications as discontinued operations. for additional information regarding discontinued operations, see note 3: discontinued operations in the notes to consolidated financial statements in this report (the notes ). except for disclosures related to our cash flows, or unless otherwise specified, disclosures in this report relate solely to our continuing operations. financial information with respect to all of our other activities, including corporate costs not allocated to our business segments or discontinued operations, is reported as part of the unallocated corporate expense or non-operating income (loss) line items in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. subsequent event share repurchase program on august 23, 2013, our board of directors approved a new $1 billion share repurchase program (our new repurchase program ) and increased the quarterly cash dividend rate on our common stock from $.37 per share to $.42 per share. our new repurchase program is in addition to our prior share repurchase program approved in 2011 (our 2011 repurchase program ), which has a remaining, unused authorization of approximately $62 million as of august 23, 2013 (approximately $133 million at june 28, 2013) and does not have a stated expiration date. our new repurchase program also does not have a stated expiration date. our repurchase programs have resulted, and are expected to continue to result, in repurchases in excess of the dilutive effect of shares issued under our share-based incentive plans. however, the level of our repurchases depends on a number of factors, including our financial condition, capital requirements, cash flows, results of operations, future business prospects and other factors our board of directors may deem relevant. repurchases are expected to be funded with available cash and commercial paper and may be made through open market purchases, private transactions, transactions structured through investment banking institutions or any combination thereof. the timing, volume and nature of repurchases are subject to market conditions, applicable securities laws and other factors and are at our discretion and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. financial information about our business segments financial information with respect to our business segments, including revenue, operating income or loss and total assets, and with respect to our operations outside the united states, is contained in note 24: business segments in the notes and is incorporated herein by reference. description of business by segment rf communications rf communications is a global supplier of secure tactical radio communications and embedded high-grade encryption solutions for military, government and commercial customers and also of secure communications systems and equipment for public safety, utility and transportation customers. rf communications serves (i) u.s. department of defense and international tactical communications and (ii) public safety and professional communications markets. u.s. department of defense and international tactical communications market: we design, develop and manufacture a comprehensive line of secure radio communications products and systems for manpack, handheld, vehicular, strategic fixed-site and shipboard installations that span the communications architecture from high capacity line of site, backbone radios to small soldier personal radios ( sprs ) and tablet computers. the radios operate in various radio frequency bands, including high-frequency ( hf ), very high-frequency ( vhf ), ultra high-frequency ( uhf ) and l-band, with higher frequencies supported for some of our network backbone products. our radio systems are highly flexible, interoperable and capable of supporting diverse mission requirements. our falcon &reg; families of tactical radios are built on software-defined radio platforms that are reprogrammable to add features or software upgrades. our falcon radios also have the highest grade embedded encryption and provide highly mobile, secure and reliable network communications capability without relying on a fixed infrastructure. this capability allows warfighters, for example, to remain connected with each other and their command structures and support organizations. it also provides them the ability to communicate information and maintain situational awareness of both friendly and opposing forces, which are critical to both the safety and success of their missions. unlike many of our competitors operating on a government-funded programs-driven business model, we operate in this market on a commercial customer-driven business model. this means that we anticipate market needs, invest 2 table of contents our internal research and development resources, build to our internal forecast and provide ready-to-ship, commercial, off-the-shelf ( cots ) products to customers, enabling us to bring products to market faster and adapt to changing customer requirements. our falcon iii &reg; family of radios is the next generation of multiband, multi-mission tactical radios supporting the u.s. military joint tactical radio system ( jtrs ) requirements as well as network-centric operations worldwide. our falcon iii radios address the full range of current mission and interoperability requirements and are fully upgradeable to address changing technical standards and mission requirements of the future. advances in our falcon iii radios include the support of wideband networking waveforms, extended frequency range and significant reductions in weight and size compared with previous generations. our falcon iii radios are used in a wide variety of ground, vehicular and airborne applications. our falcon iii multiband manpack radio, the an/prc-117g ( 117g ), was the first jtrs software communications architecture-certified and national security agency ( nsa ) type-1 certified manpack radio system providing wideband networking capability, enabling the transition to a networked battlefield communications environment and high-bandwidth application and giving warfighters and field commanders critical real-time information, including intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance ( isr ). our wideband networking radios provide enhanced situational awareness of the battlefield by connecting warfighters to the tactical internet, enabling applications such as streaming video, simultaneous voice and data feeds, collaborative chat and connectivity to secure networks. our 117g is type-1 certified for narrowband communications, as well as for wideband communications using our harris-developed adaptive networking wideband waveform ( anw2 ) for high bandwidth data operation and the jtrs soldier radio waveform ( srw ). our 2-channel vehicular radio system, the an/vrc-114 ( 114 ), is based on our 117g and is our proposed solution for the u.s. army mid-tier networking vehicular radio ( mnvr ) program. we successfully deployed our 114 at recent u.s. army network integration evaluation ( nie ) field exercises and exceeded all performance requirements. we also have successfully completed u.s. government tests of our 114 using the u.s. department of defense ( dod )-developed wideband networking waveform ( wnw ) over l-band. our falcon iii multiband handheld radio, the an/prc-152 ( 152 ), is the world most widely fielded jtrs-approved software-defined handheld radio and was our first falcon iii radio to be fielded. our 152 offers users a wide range of capabilities, such as legacy single channel ground and airborne system interoperability; uhf ground-to-ground line-of-sight communications; close-air support; tactical satellite communications ( satcom ); and the association of public safety communications officials international ( apco ) p25 waveform to provide direct communications with first responders. our 152 also serves as the handheld-based transceiver of our falcon iii an/vrc-110, a high-performance, multiband vehicular system that offers the added feature of easy vehicle dismount a grab-and-go feature that delivers continuous communications when removed from the vehicle, an important capability in urban environments. our an/prc-152a ( 152a ) builds on our 152 by adding wideband, networked communications capability, supporting both our anw2 for high bandwidth data operation and the srw. this is the first radio of its kind to support both a full range of narrowband legacy waveforms and wideband networking waveforms in a handheld platform. our 152a recently received jtrs-certification, making it our second falcon iii wideband radio to receive this important designation. both our handheld and vehicular versions have been integral to the u.s. army nie field exercises. our cryptographic solutions encompass nsa-certified products and systems that range from single integrated circuits to major communications systems. these solutions include our sierra &reg; and citadel &reg; embedded encryption solutions, kgv-72 blue force tracking programmable encryption devices and our kik-11 tactical key loader. we believe the u.s. market is transitioning from operational tempo to a modernization cycle driven by wideband technology, and our radio systems have been widely deployed throughout all branches of the dod. demand in international markets is being driven not only by the transition to wideband but also by the need for network system solutions. our extensive line of radios is designed to operate and interface well together and support a variety of tactical requirements, which we believe gives us a competitive advantage in international markets that require fully integrated solutions for command, control and communications. our tactical radios have been sold to more than 100 countries through our international distribution channels consisting of regional sales offices and a broad dealer network. our falcon radios are standardized in many countries. examples of significant awards for us in fiscal 2013 included the following: a 5-year, $297 million indefinite delivery indefinite quantity ( idiq ) follow-on contract from the u.s. department of the navy for a broad portfolio of radio solutions to support modernization and standardization on our falcon iii radios; 3 table of contents a 2-year, $397 million consolidated single-channel handheld radio ( cschr ) follow-on idiq contract to provide the dod with falcon iii handheld radios that supply interoperable voice and wideband data communications, with two 1-year options that increase the potential value of the contract to $712 million; a $500 million increase in the ceiling value of our 2011 idiq contract with the u.s. army communications-electronics command ( cecom ), which supports international sales of military and land mobile radio systems under the u.s. government foreign military sales program; a $79 million order from a country in the middle east for an integrated command, control and communications system utilizing wideband tactical radios and 4g tactical cellular capabilities; $61 million in orders from the republic of poland for anw2-equipped wideband 117g and 152a radios to provide its armed forces with secure wideband combat net radio, tactical satellite and ground-to-air communications, as part of its tactical radio modernization to better communicate with coalition partners; and $39 million in orders from several customers in brazil, including for an end-to-end tactical communications system consisting of a broad range of falcon iii radios and accessories to enable secure real-time voice, situational awareness and video surveillance communications for sisfron, the integrated border monitoring system the brazilian army is developing across brazil western border. public safety and professional communications market: we supply assured communications &reg; systems and equipment for public safety, federal, utility, commercial and transportation organizations, with products ranging from complete end-to-end wireless network infrastructure solutions, including advanced internet protocol ( ip ) voice and data networks, that support multiple platforms and provide interoperability among disparate systems, to portable and mobile single-band and multiband, multimode radios, to public safety-grade broadband voice, video and data solutions. we have more than 80 years of experience in this market and support over 500 systems around the world. we design, build, distribute, maintain and supply wireless communications systems. our voice, interoperability, data and access ( vida ) network platform is a unified ip-based voice and data communications system that provides network-level interoperable communications among public safety agencies by supporting a full line of communications systems, including opensky &reg; , networkfirst, p25 ip , enhanced digital access communication system ( edacs ) and the next-generation 4g long term evolution ( lte ) communications standard for wireless broadband for first responders. our vida &reg; network solutions currently serve as the backbone in some of the largest and most advanced statewide and regional communications networks in north america. we also offer a full range of single-band land mobile radio terminals, as well as our unity tm family of multiband radios, including a handheld radio and a full-spectrum mobile radio for vehicles. our unity multiband radios cover all public safety frequency bands in a single radio; operate on apco p25 conventional and trunked systems; are backwards compatible with analog fm systems; and include advanced capabilities, such as an internal global positioning system ( gps ) receiver for situational awareness, internal secure bluetooth &reg; wireless technology, and background noise suppression features. they also include true software-defined radio architecture that allows flexibility for future growth, including a software-only upgrade to apco p25 phase 2, the next-generation emerging standard for mission-critical communications. our unity radios multiband, multi-mode capabilities enable a single radio to communicate with multiple organizations, jurisdictions and agencies operating on different frequencies and systems, providing a significant improvement over most current radio systems for u.s. public safety, which are not interoperable and thus require users to carry multiple radios or route transmissions through ad-hoc network bridges, often configured at the time of an emergency, and resulting in instances where agencies responding to a common incident cannot talk to each other. other examples of our public safety and professional communications solutions and services include the following: we are designing and building the alberta first responders radio communications system that will provide public safety communications within the 256,000 square-mile province of alberta, canada; we are deploying a communications network for the san francisco municipal transportation authority to increase operational efficiencies, improve safety and provide interoperability with public safety agencies; we provided 700 mhz band lte pilot programs to multiple u.s. cities, enabling them to share streaming video, voice and mapping; we are deploying a p25 simulcast radio system for the regional municipality of durham, ontario that will provide interoperability with adjacent municipalities and utility partners and can be adapted to support lte networks; and we are deploying a p25 system for the u.s. marine corps installations east region that also will provide interoperability with civilian agencies. 4 table of contents revenue, operating income and backlog: revenue for the rf communications segment decreased 13.8 percent to $1,849 million in fiscal 2013 compared with $2,144 million in fiscal 2012, and was $2,289 million in fiscal 2011. segment operating income decreased 18.0 percent to $576.9 million in fiscal 2013 compared with $703.7 million in fiscal 2012, and was $787.0 million in fiscal 2011. the percentage of our revenue contributed by this segment was 36 percent in fiscal 2013 compared with 39 percent in fiscal 2012 and 42 percent in fiscal 2011. the percentage of this segment revenue that was derived outside of the u.s. was approximately 44 percent in fiscal 2013 compared with approximately 40 percent in fiscal 2012 and 31 percent in fiscal 2011. the percentage of this segment revenue that was derived from sales to u.s. government customers, including the dod and intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military sales funded through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors was approximately 43 percent in fiscal 2013 compared with approximately 46 percent in fiscal 2012 and 63 percent in fiscal 2011. for a general description of our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, including a discussion of revenue generated thereunder and of cost-reimbursable versus fixed-price contracts, see item 1. business principal customers; government contracts of this report. in general, this segment domestic products are sold and serviced directly to customers through its sales organization and through established distribution channels. internationally, this segment markets and sells its products and services through regional sales offices and established distribution channels. for a general description of our international business, see item 1. business international business of this report. the funded backlog for this segment was $1,341 million at the end of fiscal 2013 compared with $1,300 million at the end of fiscal 2012 and $1,503 million at the end of fiscal 2011. we expect to fill approximately 60 percent of this funded backlog during fiscal 2014, but we can give no assurance of such fulfillment. additional information regarding funded backlog is provided under item 1. business funded and unfunded backlog of this report. for a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, see item 1. business principal customers; government contracts, item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this report. integrated network solutions integrated network solutions provides integrated communications and information technology ( it ) and services, including a variety of trusted networking capabilities, to support government, energy, maritime and healthcare customers. integrated network solutions serves (i) it services, (ii) managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions and (iii) healthcare solutions markets. it services market: we are a leading systems and network integrator and prime contractor providing mission-critical end-to-end it services for defense, intelligence, homeland security and civilian government customers. we have positions as a prime contractor on many key idiq contract vehicles related to it services. we deliver scalable, flexible, secure solutions that achieve objectives and advance mission readiness. our it services platform is standards- and process-driven and follows strict methodologies, and we have attained high-level, specialized it services registrations and ratings. we invest in the expertise of our employees to ensure they remain current with evolving technologies and to promote optimal service delivery. in addition, we and our personnel have a mix of security clearances that enable us to support our broad customer base. our it services solutions are built around a firm fixed-price, performance-based contract portfolio, providing the ability to leverage our workforce across multiple engagements to adapt quickly to specific customer requirements. in the u.s., our operational footprint offers a physical presence in all 50 states and provides support to more than 10,000 customer sites in 300 of the largest u.s. cities. examples of our work in designing, integrating, deploying, operating and supporting secure communications systems and information networks for complex, mission-critical applications include the following: we provide operations and maintenance support at locations around the world for the communications functions for the u.s. air force 50th space wing satellite control network, a global, continuously operational network of ground stations, operational control nodes and communications links that support launch and command and control of various space programs managed by the dod and other national security space organizations, under the network and space operations and maintenance ( nsom ) program; we provide the u.s. department of the navy with comprehensive, end-to-end support for data, video and voice communications for over 700,000 users as a tier one subcontractor under the navy/marine corps intranet ( nmci ) program; however, this work may not continue because in fiscal 2013 we were not awarded the re-compete for the successor program, but we have protested that re-compete award; we provide the government of canada with engineering and logistics services to support the avionics systems on the cf-18 hornet fighter aircraft under the cf-18 avionics optimized weapon system support program; 5 table of contents we provide it integration of installation, training, help desk, passport and configuration management services for the u.s. department of state, bureau of consular affairs in support of more than 240 u.s. embassies and consulates around the world; we provide comprehensive operational and system maintenance support and engineering and technology enhancements for the defense information systems agency crisis management system; we provide enterprise it support services to the north american air defense command ( norad ) and the u.s. northern command ( usnorthcom ); and we maintain networks that enable over 12 million u.s. military members and their families to receive goods and services at 250 locations around the world for the defense commissary agency. managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions market (which we sometimes refer to as harris caprock communications ) : we are a global provider of end-to-end fully-managed hybrid communications network solutions to critical operations in remote and harsh locations for energy, maritime and government customers. we own and operate a robust global infrastructure that includes teleports on six continents; network operations centers running 24 hours per day, seven days per week; local presence in 23 countries; and over 275 global field service personnel supporting customer locations in more than 125 countries across north america, central and south america, europe, africa and asia-pacific. our customers include major land-based and offshore energy, mining and engineering and construction companies; leading transocean shipping and cruise line companies; and government and military customers with defense and intelligence missions. we combine satellite, terrestrial and wireless technologies to provide comprehensive communications solutions that connect customers remote sites with each other and with distant headquarters. our solutions focus on voice, data and networking solutions for remote sites and are supported by the largest global managed satellite network in the world. examples of our end-to-end fully-managed hybrid communications network solutions include the following: we are providing complete turnkey managed satellite communications services, including all shipboard equipment, onboard it system integration and satellite bandwidth, under multi-year agreements covering 150 vessels operating worldwide for one energy customer and over 100 vessels operating worldwide for another energy customer; we are providing data, voice and internet service to drilling ships operating in offshore brazil and satellite communications to drilling ships operating in offshore norway; we are delivering turnkey managed satellite communications to a fleet of 53 offshore supply vessels operating in the north sea, brazil, australia and indian pacific regions and managed communication services on over 300 commercial shipping and service vessels; we are providing end-to-end terrestrial and satellite communications services and solutions to a leading global helicopter transportation company; we are providing global communications services onboard 34 cruise ships to improve overall communications performance and enhance guest and crew experiences; we are operating the offshore communications backbone, a modular system of seafloor communications equipment for deep-ocean observation located in the eastern mediterranean sea, under a 3-year master service agreement; and we are providing managed service networks leveraging 2 ghz of c-, ku-, uhf- and x-band commercial space segment capacity for monitoring and control, teleport services, terrestrial communications, operations and maintenance to dod agency customers operating in asia, europe, the u.s. and all major ocean regions and to classified customers, supporting a range of missions, including airborne isr, tactical field-deployed communications and continuity of operations. healthcare solutions market: we provide systems integration, intelligent infrastructure, information exchange, interoperability, and enterprise business intelligence and analytics solutions and services for government and commercial healthcare customers. we are a leader in u.s. federal healthcare it integration, and we also offer commercial and international healthcare providers a full range of interoperability and business intelligence solutions. our products, systems and services help improve healthcare quality, safety, efficiency, cost and outcomes by seeking to ensure that the right information travels, with security and privacy, to the right person, at the right time, on the right device, at the point of care. examples include the following: we were one of eight companies in the large business category awarded the 5-year transformation twenty-one total technology ( t4 ) idiq contract vehicle from the department of veterans affairs ( va ) designed to upgrade the va it system and covering services that will streamline and modernize va operations, including patient care delivery at more than 150 va hospitals; under the t4 idiq contract vehicle, we are (i) providing electronic health record interoperability to enhance continuity of care between the dod and the va, (ii) designing and installing a wireless network for va medical centers and (iii) improving electronic data interoperability for claims processing; 6 table of contents we are providing design, development, enhancement, integration, implementation, maintenance and infrastructure support services for the veterans benefits administration enterprise data warehouse, the primary source for veteran benefits data and information; and we are implementing statewide health information exchange ( hie ) infrastructures in florida and oregon to connect physicians, hospitals, regional hies and state government agencies. revenue, operating income and backlog: revenue for the integrated network solutions segment decreased 2.1 percent to $1,539 million in fiscal 2013 compared with $1,571 million in fiscal 2012, and was $1,445 million in fiscal 2011. segment operating income increased 10.9 percent to $77.5 million in fiscal 2013 compared with $69.9 million in fiscal 2012, and was $90.7 million in fiscal 2011. the percentage of our revenue contributed by this segment was 30 percent in fiscal 2013 compared with 29 percent in fiscal 2012 and 27 percent in fiscal 2011. the percentages of this segment revenue under contracts directly with end customers and under contracts with prime contractors were approximately 77 percent and 23 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2013 compared with approximately 70 percent and 30 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2012 and 74 percent and 26 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2011. the percentage of this segment revenue that was derived outside of the u.s. was approximately 31 percent in fiscal 2013 compared with approximately 28 percent in fiscal 2012 and 16 percent in fiscal 2011. the percentages of this segment revenue in a particular fiscal year represented by this segment largest u.s. government program by revenue in such fiscal year and five largest u.s. government programs by revenue in such fiscal year were approximately 9 percent and 29 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2013 compared with approximately 9 percent and 31 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2012 and 10 percent and 38 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2011. the percentage of this segment revenue that was derived from sales to u.s. government customers, including the dod and intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military sales funded through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, was approximately 61 percent in fiscal 2013 compared with approximately 66 percent in fiscal 2012 and 74 percent in fiscal 2011. for a general description of our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, including a discussion of revenue generated thereunder and of cost-reimbursable versus fixed-price contracts, see item 1. business principal customers; government contracts of this report. in general, this segment domestic products are sold and serviced directly to customers through its sales organization and through established distribution channels. internationally, this segment markets and sells its products and services through regional sales offices and established distribution channels. for a general description of our international business, see item 1. business international business of this report. the funded backlog for this segment was $919 million at the end of fiscal 2013 compared with $930 million at the end of fiscal 2012 and $765 million at the end of fiscal 2011. unfunded backlog for this segment was $1,106 million at the end of fiscal 2013 compared with $1,174 million at the end of fiscal 2012 and $1,295 million at the end of fiscal 2011. we expect to fill approximately 65 percent of this funded backlog during fiscal 2014, but we can give no assurance of such fulfillment. additional information regarding funded and unfunded backlog is provided under item 1. business funded and unfunded backlog of this report. for a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, see item 1. business principal customers; government contracts, item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this report. government communications systems government communications systems conducts advanced research and develops, produces, integrates and supports advanced communications and information systems that solve the mission-critical challenges of our civilian, intelligence and defense government customers worldwide, primarily the u.s. government. government communication systems serves (i) civil, (ii) national intelligence and (iii) defense markets. civil market: we provide highly reliable, mission-critical communications and information processing systems that meet the most demanding needs of civilian u.s. government agencies, including the federal aviation administration ( faa ) and the national oceanic and atmospheric administration ( noaa ). we use our ability to implement and manage large, complex programs that integrate secure, advanced communications and information processing technologies in order to improve productivity and to achieve cost savings for our customers. our networks and information systems for large-scale, geographically dispersed enterprises offer advanced capabilities for collecting, processing, analyzing, interpreting, displaying, distributing, storing and retrieving data. we are a leader in satellite ground data processing and mission command-and-control ( c2 ) systems. our ground data processing systems consist of complex suites of hardware and software that receive sensor data from satellites, turning it into useable information. our c2 systems feature cots design and high levels of flexibility, are designed for government and commercial applications, and support single-satellite missions as well as some of the largest and most complex satellite fleets deployed. 7 table of contents for example, we are the prime contractor and system architect under a 20-year contract awarded in july 2002, with a potential value of $5 billion, for the faa telecommunications infrastructure ( fti ) program to integrate, modernize, operate and maintain the communications infrastructure for the u.s. air traffic control system. we designed and deployed, and are currently operating and maintaining, the fti network, which is a fully operational, modern, secure and efficient network providing voice, data and video communications deployed at more than 4,500 faa sites across the u.s. we also have developed a number of other solutions under faa programs, including a voice switching and control system providing the critical air-to-ground communications links between en-route aircraft and air traffic controllers throughout the continental u.s.; an integrated weather briefing and flight planning system for alaska general aviation community; a meteorological data processing system that generates radar mosaic data for air traffic controller displays and delivers weather data to critical subsystems within the national airspace system ( nas ); and a satellite-based alaskan nas interfacility communications system linking the alaskan air route traffic control center in anchorage with faa facilities throughout the region. in fiscal 2013, we were awarded three contracts that provide essential elements of the faa multi-billion dollar next generation air transportation system ( nextgen ) initiative to transform the u.s. air traffic control system to meet future requirements: a 7-year, $331 million data communications integrated services ( dcis ) contract to transform voice-based air traffic control to automated air traffic management (and in the first quarter of fiscal 2014, we were awarded a 7-year, $150 million contract to provide the data communications network service ( dcns ) component of the dcis program, bringing total contract value for the program to $481 million); a 15-year, $291 million nextgen nas voice system ( nvs ) contract to create a modern voice over internet protocol ( voip ) network for communications among air traffic controllers, pilots and ground personnel; and a 5-year, $63 million nas enterprise messaging service ( nems ) idiq contract that provides the systems wide information management ( swim ) program with enterprise-wide data sharing for a variety of critical information such as flight planning, traffic flow, surface radar and weather. in fiscal 2012, we were awarded a 5-year contract to supply aireon, llc with 81 automatic dependent surveillance-broadcast ( ads-b ) receiver payloads that will be part of a satellite-based aircraft tracking system to enhance global air traffic control and that will be hosted on the iridium next satellite constellation. another example of our capabilities relates to noaa geostationary operational environmental satellite series r ( goes-r ) ground and antenna segment weather programs. under two 10-year contracts, with an aggregate potential value of approximately $1 billion (including change orders), we are providing a complete, end-to-end solution in which we will design, develop, deploy and operate the ground segment system that will receive and process satellite data and generate and distribute weather data to more than 10,000 direct users, as well as providing the command and control of operational satellites. we also are supplying antennas and control systems that will provide communications links for command, telemetry and sensor data, as well as the communications link to direct data users. the new antennas will operate with next-generation goes-r satellites and will be compatible with existing goes-n through goes-p satellites. in fiscal 2013, the goes-r weather program transitioned from the design and development phase to the integration, test and deployment phase. we also are modernizing the ground segment of the tracking and data relay satellite system ( tdrss ) network under a 5-year contract, potentially worth $140 million, for the space network ground segment sustainment ( sgss ) program for the national aeronautics and space administration ( nasa ). the tdrss network is used by satellites and spacecraft in low-earth orbit to relay data continuously to ground stations in white sands, new mexico and in guam. the modernization will improve situational awareness for tdrss network operators, upgrade computing and signal processing equipment, enhance reliability and maintainability, improve efficiency and reduce operations and sustainment costs. the sgss program builds on our 30-year incumbency with the tdrss. we were a primary developer of the original tdrss ground system in white sands in the early 1980s, and we also provided the large deployable antennas on the original tdrss satellites for the space segment of the original program. national intelligence market: a significant portion of this market involves classified programs. although classified programs generally are not discussed in this report, the operating results relating to classified programs are included in our consolidated financial statements. we believe that the business risks associated with those programs do not differ materially from the business risks of other u.s. government programs. we are a major developer, supplier and integrator of communications and information processing products, systems and networks for a diverse base of u.s. intelligence community programs, and we support the ongoing transformation of the intelligence community into a more collaborative enterprise. serving primarily national 8 table of contents intelligence and security agency customers, including nsa, the national reconnaissance office ( nro ) and the national geospatial-intelligence agency ( nga ), we provide integrated isr solutions that improve situational awareness, data collection accuracy and product analysis by correlating near real-time mission data and intelligence reference data for display and analysis by strategic and tactical planners and decision makers. our isr systems help to integrate information across the analyst workflow, accelerating the movement of information that has been collected and processed. for example, our image processing capabilities extend from algorithm development through delivery of operations systems, and we are providing advanced image exploitation and dissemination solutions for isr applications by advancing image processing, image data fusion, display technologies and digital product generation techniques. applicable technologies range from new techniques for merging and displaying imagery to automated techniques for image screening, cueing and remote visualization. also, our mapping and visualization capabilities provide complete, accurate and timely knowledge about the threat, the terrain, the status and the location of single or multiple opposing and friendly forces and their support by utilizing data, pictures, voice and video drawn from vast storage banks or from real-time input which can be transmitted around the world in fractions of a second. in addition, we have industry-leading capabilities in the architecture, design and development of highly specialized satellite antennas, structures, phased arrays and on-board processors, which are used to enable next-generation satellite systems to provide the u.s. military and intelligence communities with strategic and tactical advantages. we are also a leader in the design and development of antenna and reflector technologies for commercial space telecommunications applications. with more than 50 reflectors in orbit, we are the leading supplier of large reflector apertures and deployable mesh antenna systems for government and commercial applications. in fiscal 2013, we were awarded a number of new contracts and follow-on contracts under classified programs. in addition, our harris atlas systems joint venture was awarded an $8 million contract to supply a geospatial data sharing system to a government in the middle east that will enable users to rapidly find, share and access critical geospatial information. defense market: we develop, supply and integrate communications and information processing products, systems and networks for a diverse base of aerospace, terrestrial and maritime applications supporting dod missions, and we are committed to delivering leading-edge technologies that support the ongoing transformations of military communications for u.s. and international customers. our technologies are providing advanced mobile wideband networking capabilities to assure timely and secure network-centric capabilities across strategic, operational and tactical boundaries in support of the dod full spectrum of warfighting, intelligence and logistics missions. our major technology capabilities include advanced ground control systems and satcom terminals for transportable ground, fixed-site and shipboard applications; flat-panel, phased-array and single-mission antennas; advanced aviation electronics for military jets, including digital maps, processors, sensors, data buses, fiber optics and microelectronics; and high-speed data links and data networks for wireless communications. we also develop and supply state-of-the-art wireless voice and data products and solutions. for example, our mobile ad hoc networking capability allows the military to take its communications infrastructure with it, creating mobile, robust, self-forming and self-healing networks across the battlefield. our highband networking radio tm ( hnr ) provides secure, wireless, high-bandwidth, on-the-move communications among users of widely dispersed local area networks by establishing line-of-sight connectivity using directive beam antenna technology and a harris-developed waveform that automatically selects the best communications path available, allowing seamless communication of voice, video and data to all levels of command. our hnr system was deployed to the u.s. army 101st airborne division (air assault) 2nd brigade combat team in iraq, which was the first combat deployment of the hnr system, and also was selected by the u.s. army for rapid deployment into afghanistan. our hnrs form the communications backbone of the u.s. army new integrated air and missile defense battle command system, and we are currently producing and delivering hnrs under the u.s. army warfighter information network-tactical ( win-t ) program. examples of ongoing programs for us include the following: the u.s. army modernization of enterprise terminals ( met ) program, for which we are developing, under a ten-year contract awarded in fiscal 2009 with a potential value of $600 million, next-generation large satellite earth stations to provide the worldwide backbone for high-priority military communications and missile defense systems and to support ip and dedicated circuit connectivity within the global information grid, providing critical reach-back capability for the warfighter; the f-35 joint strike fighter ( f-35 ) and f/a-18e/f super hornet ( f/a-18e/f ) aircraft platform programs, for which we provide high-performance, advanced avionics such as high-speed fiber optic networking and switching, intra-flight data links, image processing, digital map software and other electronic components, 9 table of contents including multifunction advanced data link communications subsystems primarily intended for stealth platform air-to-air communications and which allow f-35s to communicate in a stealth fashion with other network nodes without revealing their positions; and the win-t program for the u.s. army, for which we are designing and testing the wireless transmission system architecture, applying our proven enabling technologies for wireless on-the-move communications, including phased arrays and high-speed secure wireless network solutions such as our hnr system. in fiscal 2013, we were awarded a $51 million follow-on contract for the met program and were one of twenty prime contractors selected to compete for work under the 5-year, $10 billion global tactical advanced communication systems idiq contract. revenue, operating income and backlog: revenue for the government communications systems segment decreased 0.3 percent to $1,828 million in fiscal 2013 compared with $1,834 million in fiscal 2012, and was $1,777 million in fiscal 2011. segment operating income decreased 0.6 percent to $254.7 million in fiscal 2013 compared with $256.2 million in fiscal 2012, and was $227.0 million in fiscal 2011. the percentage of our revenue contributed by this segment was 36 percent in fiscal 2013 compared with 34 percent in fiscal 2012 and 33 percent in fiscal 2011. the percentages of this segment revenue under contracts directly with end customers and under contracts with prime contractors were approximately 74 percent and 26 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2013 compared with approximately 70 percent and 30 percent, respectively, in both fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011. in fiscal 2013, this segment had a diverse portfolio of over 200 programs. some of this segment more significant programs in fiscal 2013 included fti, goes-r, sgss, f-35, f/a-18e/f, met, global geospatial intelligence ( ggi ) and various classified and space communications systems programs. the percentages of this segment revenue in a particular fiscal year represented by this segment largest program by revenue in such fiscal year and ten largest programs by revenue in such fiscal year were approximately 13 percent and 47 percent, respectively, in both fiscal 2013 and 2012 and 14 percent and 47 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2011. the percentage of this segment revenue that was derived from sales to u.s. government customers, including the dod and intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military sales funded through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, was approximately 94 percent in fiscal 2013 compared with approximately 97 percent in both fiscal 2012 and 2011. for a general description of our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, including a discussion of revenue generated thereunder and of cost-reimbursable versus fixed-price contracts, see item 1. business principal customers; government contracts of this report. the funded backlog for this segment was $964 million at the end of fiscal 2013 compared with $875 million at the end of fiscal 2012 and $775 million at the end of fiscal 2011. unfunded backlog for this segment was $2,504 million at the end of fiscal 2013 compared with $2,763 million at the end of fiscal 2012 and $3,193 million at the end of fiscal 2011. we expect to fill approximately 76 percent of this funded backlog during fiscal 2014, but we can give no assurance of such fulfillment. additional information regarding funded and unfunded backlog is provided under item 1. business funded and unfunded backlog of this report. for a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, see item 1. business principal customers; government contracts, item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this report. international business revenue from products and services exported from the u.s. (including foreign military sales) or manufactured or rendered abroad was $1,312.5 million (26 percent of our revenue) in fiscal 2013 compared with $1,330.1 million (24 percent of our revenue) in fiscal 2012 and $1,003.4 million (19 percent of our revenue) in fiscal 2011. essentially all of our international sales are derived from our rf communications and integrated network solutions segments. direct export sales are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars, whereas sales from foreign subsidiaries are generally denominated in the local currency of the subsidiary. financial information regarding our domestic and international operations is contained in note 24: business segments in the notes and is incorporated herein by reference. the majority of our international marketing activities are conducted through subsidiaries which operate in canada, europe, the middle east, central and south america, africa and asia. we have also established international marketing organizations and several regional sales offices. for further information regarding our international subsidiaries, see exhibit 21 subsidiaries of the registrant of this report. we utilize indirect sales channels, including dealers, distributors and sales representatives, in the marketing and sale of some lines of products and equipment, both domestically and internationally. these independent representatives may buy for resale or, in some cases, solicit orders from commercial or governmental customers for direct sales by us. 10 table of contents prices to the ultimate customer in many instances may be recommended or established by the independent representative and may be above or below our list prices. our dealers and distributors generally receive a discount from our list prices and may mark up those prices in setting the final sales prices paid by the customer. the percentages of our total revenue and of our international revenue represented by revenue from indirect sales channels were approximately 10 percent and 33 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2013 compared with approximately 12 percent and 48 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2012 and 10 percent and 49 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2011. fiscal 2013 international revenue came from a large number of countries, and no such single country accounted for more than 3 percent of our total revenue. some of our exports are paid for by letters of credit, with the balance carried either on an open account or installment note basis. advance payments, progress payments or other similar payments received prior to or upon shipment often cover most of the related costs incurred. significant foreign government contracts generally require us to provide performance guarantees. in order to stay competitive in international markets, we also sometimes enter into offset agreements or recourse or vendor financing arrangements to facilitate sales to certain customers. the particular economic, social and political conditions for business conducted outside the u.s. differ from those encountered by domestic businesses. our management believes that the overall business risk for our international business as a whole is somewhat greater than that faced by our domestic businesses as a whole. a description of the types of risks to which we are subject in our international business is contained in item 1a. risk factors of this report. nevertheless, in the opinion of our management, these risks are partially mitigated by the diversification of our international business and the protection provided by letters of credit and advance payments. competition we operate in highly competitive markets that are sensitive to technological advances. many of our competitors in each of our markets are larger than we are and can maintain higher levels of expenditures for research and development. in each of our markets we concentrate on the opportunities that our management believes are compatible with our resources, overall technological capabilities and objectives. principal competitive factors in these markets are product quality and reliability; technological capabilities; service; past performance; ability to develop and implement complex, integrated solutions; ability to meet delivery schedules; the effectiveness of third-party sales channels in international markets; and cost-effectiveness. within the it services market, there is intense competition among many companies. the ability to compete in the it services market depends on a number of factors, including the capability to deploy skilled professionals at competitive prices across the diverse spectrum of the it services market. in the rf communications segment, principal competitors include european aeronautic defence and space company n.v. ( eads ), general dynamics, exelis inc., motorola solutions, raytheon, rohde &amp; schwarz, tadiran and thales. in the integrated network solutions segment, principal competitors include astrium, caci, computer sciences corporation, general dynamics, globecomm, hewlett-packard, ibm, inmarsat, lockheed martin, mantech, nci information systems, northrop grumman, raytheon, rignet, saic and the advisory board company, as well as other smaller companies and divisions of large companies. in the government communications systems segment, principal competitors include bae systems, boeing, general dynamics, l-3 communications, lockheed martin, northrop grumman, raytheon, exelis inc. and rockwell collins. we frequently partner or are involved in subcontracting and teaming relationships with companies that are, from time to time, competitors on other programs. principal customers; government contracts the percentage of our revenue that was derived from sales to u.s. government customers, including the dod and intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military sales funded through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, was approximately 67 percent in fiscal 2013 compared with approximately 70 percent in fiscal 2012 and 78 percent in fiscal 2011. no other customer accounted for more than 4 percent of our revenue in fiscal 2013. additional information regarding customers for each of our segments is provided under item 1. business description of business by segment of this report. our u.s. government sales are predominantly derived from contracts with agencies of, and prime contractors to, the u.s. government. most of the sales in our government communications systems segment and with respect to u.s. government programs in our integrated network solutions segment are made directly or indirectly to the u.s. government under contracts or subcontracts containing standard government contract clauses providing for redetermination of profits, if applicable, and for termination for the convenience of the u.s. government or for default based on performance. 11 table of contents our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts include both cost-reimbursable and fixed-price contracts. governmentwide acquisition contracts ( gwacs ) and idiq contracts, which can include task orders for each contract type, require us to compete both for the initial contract and then for individual task or delivery orders under such contracts. our u.s. government cost-reimbursable contracts provide for the reimbursement of allowable costs plus payment of a fee and fall into three basic types: (i) cost-plus fixed-fee contracts, which provide for payment of a fixed fee irrespective of the final cost of performance; (ii) cost-plus incentive-fee contracts, which provide for payment of a fee that may increase or decrease, within specified limits, based on actual results compared with contractual targets relating to factors such as cost, performance and delivery schedule; and (iii) cost-plus award-fee contracts, which provide for payment of an award fee determined at the customer discretion based on the contractor performance against pre-established performance criteria. under our u.s. government cost-reimbursable contracts, we are reimbursed periodically for allowable costs and are paid a portion of the fee based on contract progress. some overhead costs have been made partially or wholly unallowable for reimbursement by statute or regulation. examples are certain merger and acquisition costs, lobbying costs, charitable contributions and certain litigation defense costs. our u.s. government fixed-price contracts are either firm fixed-price contracts or fixed-price incentive contracts. under our u.s. government firm fixed-price contracts, we agree to perform a specific scope of work for a fixed price and, as a result, benefit from cost savings and carry the burden of cost overruns. under our u.s. government fixed-price incentive contracts, we share with the u.s. government both savings accrued for performance at less than target cost as well as costs incurred in excess of target cost up to a negotiated ceiling price (which is higher than the target cost), but carry the entire burden of costs exceeding the negotiated ceiling price. accordingly, under such incentive contracts, profit may also be adjusted up or down depending on whether specified performance objectives are met. under our u.s. government firm fixed-price and fixed-price incentive contracts, we usually receive either milestone payments equaling 100 percent of the contract price or monthly progress payments from the u.s. government in amounts equaling 80 percent of costs incurred under the contract. the remaining amounts, including profits or incentive fees, are billed upon delivery and final acceptance of end items and deliverables under the contract. our u.s. government fixed-price contracts generally have higher profit margins than our u.s. government cost-reimbursable contracts. our production contracts are mainly fixed-price contracts, and development contracts are generally cost-reimbursable contracts. as stated above, u.s. government contracts are terminable for the convenience of the u.s. government, as well as for default based on performance. companies supplying goods and services to the u.s. government are dependent on congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of funds and may be affected by changes in u.s. government policies resulting from various military, political, economic and international developments. long-term u.s. government contracts and related orders are subject to cancellation if appropriations for subsequent performance periods become unavailable. under contracts terminable for the convenience of the u.s. government, a contractor is entitled to receive payments for its allowable costs and, in general, the proportionate share of fees or earnings for the work done. contracts that are terminable for default generally provide that the u.s. government pays only for the work it has accepted and may require the contractor to pay for the incremental cost of reprocurement and may hold the contractor liable for damages. in many cases, there is also uncertainty relating to the complexity of designs, necessity for design improvements and difficulty in forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work. under many u.s. government contracts, we are required to maintain facility and personnel security clearances complying with dod and other federal agency requirements. for further discussion of risks relating to u.s. government contracts, see item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this report. funded and unfunded backlog our total company-wide funded and unfunded backlog was approximately $6,789 million at the end of fiscal 2013 compared with approximately $6,993 million at the end of fiscal 2012 and $7,523 million at the end of fiscal 2011. the funded portion of this backlog was approximately $3,179 million at the end of fiscal 2013 compared with approximately $3,056 million at the end of fiscal 2012 and $3,035 million at the end of fiscal 2011. the determination of backlog involves substantial estimating, particularly with respect to customer requirements contracts and development and production contracts of a cost-reimbursable or incentive nature. we define funded backlog as unfilled firm orders for products and services for which funding has been authorized and, in the case of u.s. government agencies, appropriated. we define unfunded backlog as primarily unfilled firm contract value for which funding has not yet been authorized or, in the case of u.s. government agencies, appropriated, including the value of contract options in cases of material contracts that have options we believe are probable of being exercised. we do not include potential task or delivery orders under idiq contracts in our backlog. 12 table of contents in fiscal 2014, we expect to fill approximately 66 percent of our total funded backlog as of june 28, 2013. however, we can give no assurance of such fulfillment or that our funded backlog will become revenue in any particular period, if at all. backlog is subject to delivery delays and program cancellations, which are beyond our control. additional information with regard to the backlog of each of our segments is provided under item 1. business description of business by segment of this report. research and development research and development expenditures totaled approximately $979 million in fiscal 2013, $914 million in fiscal 2012 and $887 million in fiscal 2011. company-sponsored research and development costs, which included research and development for commercial products and services and independent research and development related to government products and services, as well as concept formulation studies and bid and proposal efforts, were approximately $254 million in fiscal 2013 (including an approximately $18 million write-off of capitalized software in our integrated network solutions segment), $219 million in fiscal 2012 and $240 million in fiscal 2011. a portion of our independent research and development costs are allocated among contracts and programs in process under u.s. government contractual arrangements. company-sponsored research and development costs not otherwise allocable are charged to expense when incurred. the portion of total research and development expenditures that was not company-sponsored principally funded by the u.s. government and included in our revenue and cost of product sales and services was $725 million in fiscal 2013, $695 million in fiscal 2012 and $647 million in fiscal 2011. company-sponsored research is directed to the development of new products and services and to building technological capability in selected communications and electronic systems markets. u.s. government-funded research helps strengthen and broaden our technical capabilities. all of our segments maintain their own engineering and new product development departments, with scientific assistance provided by advanced-technology departments. as of june 28, 2013, we employed approximately 6,000 engineers and scientists and are continuing efforts to make the technologies developed in any of our business segments available for all other business segments. patents and other intellectual property we consider our patents and other intellectual property, in the aggregate, to constitute an important asset. we own a large and valuable portfolio of patents, trade secrets, know-how, confidential information, trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property, and we routinely apply for new patents, trademarks and copyrights. we also license intellectual property to and from third parties. as of june 28, 2013, we held approximately 1,090 u.s. patents and 830 foreign patents, and had approximately 396 u.s. patent applications pending (and 747 foreign patent applications pending). unpatented research, development and engineering skills also make an important contribution to our business. while our intellectual property rights in the aggregate are important to our business and the operations of our business segments, we do not consider our business or any business segment to be materially dependent upon any single patent, license or other intellectual property right, or any group of related patents, licenses or other intellectual property rights. we are engaged in a proactive patent licensing program and have entered into a number of licenses and cross-license agreements, some of which generate royalty income. although existing license agreements have generated income in past years and may do so in the future, there can be no assurances we will enter into additional income-producing license agreements. from time to time we engage in litigation to protect our patents and other intellectual property. any of our patents, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights and other proprietary rights could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or may not provide competitive advantages. for further discussion of risks relating to intellectual property, see item 1a. risk factors of this report. with regard to certain patents relating to our government communications systems and rf communications segments, the u.s. government has an irrevocable, non-exclusive, royalty-free license, pursuant to which the u.s. government may use or authorize others to use the inventions covered by such patents. pursuant to similar arrangements, the u.s. government may consent to our use of inventions covered by patents owned by other persons. numerous trademarks used on or in connection with our products are also considered to be a valuable asset. environmental and other regulations our facilities and operations are subject to numerous domestic and international laws and regulations designed to protect the environment, particularly with regard to wastes and emissions. the applicable environmental laws and regulations are common within the industries and markets in which we operate and serve. we believe that we have complied with these requirements and that such compliance has not had a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. based on currently available information, we do not expect expenditures over the next several years to protect the environment and to comply with current environmental laws and regulations, as well as to comply with current and pending climate control legislation, regulation, treaties and accords, to have a material impact on our competitive position or financial condition, but we can give no assurance that such expenditures will not exceed current expectations. if future treaties, laws and regulations contain more stringent requirements than 13 table of contents presently anticipated, actual expenditures may be higher than our present estimates of those expenditures. we have installed waste treatment facilities and pollution control equipment to satisfy legal requirements and to achieve our waste minimization and prevention goals. we did not spend material amounts on environmental capital projects in fiscal 2013, fiscal 2012 or fiscal 2011. a portion of our environmental expenditures relates to historic discontinued operations (other than cis and broadcast communications) for which we have retained certain environmental liabilities. we currently expect that amounts to be spent for environmental-related capital projects will not be material in fiscal 2014. these amounts may increase in future years. additional information regarding environmental and regulatory matters is set forth in item 3. legal proceedings of this report and in note 1: significant accounting policies in the notes. electronic products are subject to governmental environmental regulation in a number of jurisdictions, such as domestic and international requirements requiring end-of-life management and/or restricting materials in products delivered to customers, including the european union directive 2002/96/ec on waste electrical and electronic equipment and directive 2002/95/ec on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment ( rohs ), as amended. other jurisdictions have adopted similar legislation. such requirements typically are not applicable to most equipment produced by our government communications systems and rf communications segments. we believe that we have complied with such rules and regulations, where applicable, with respect to our existing products sold into such jurisdictions. we intend to comply with such rules and regulations with respect to our future products. wireless communications (whether radio, satellite or telecommunications) are also subject to governmental regulation. equipment produced in our integrated network solutions and rf communications segments, in particular, is subject to domestic and international requirements to avoid interference among users of radio and television frequencies and to permit interconnection of telecommunications equipment. additionally, we hold licenses for our managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions market for very small aperture terminals and satellite earth stations, which authorize operation of networks and teleports. we are also required to comply with technical operating and licensing requirements that pertain to our wireless licenses and operations. we believe that we have complied with such rules and regulations and licenses with respect to our existing products and services, and we intend to comply with such rules and regulations and licenses with respect to our future products and services. governmental reallocation of the frequency spectrum also could impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. raw materials and supplies because of the diversity of our products and services, as well as the wide geographic dispersion of our facilities, we use numerous sources for the wide array of raw materials (such as electronic components, printed circuit boards, metals and plastics) needed for our operations and for our products. we are dependent upon suppliers and subcontractors for a large number of components and subsystems and the ability of our suppliers and subcontractors to adhere to customer or regulatory materials restrictions and to meet performance and quality specifications and delivery schedules. in some instances, we are dependent upon one or a few sources, either because of the specialized nature of a particular item or because of local content preference requirements pursuant to which we operate on a given project. while we have been affected by financial and performance issues of some of our suppliers and subcontractors, we have not been materially adversely affected by the inability to obtain raw materials or products. on occasion, we have experienced component shortages from vendors as a result of natural disasters, or the rohs environmental regulations in the european union or similar regulations in other jurisdictions. these events or regulations may cause a spike in demand for certain electronic components (such as lead-free components), resulting in industry-wide supply chain shortages. to date, these component shortages have not had a material adverse effect on our business. for further discussion of risks relating to subcontractors and suppliers, see item 1a. risk factors of this report. seasonality we do not consider any material portion of our business to be seasonal. various factors can affect the distribution of our revenue between accounting periods, including the timing of contract awards and the timing and availability of u.s. government funding, as well as the timing of product deliveries and customer acceptance. employees we had approximately 14,000 employees at the end of fiscal 2013. approximately 91 percent of our employees as of the end of fiscal 2013 were located in the u.s. a significant number of our employees possess a u.s. government security clearance. we also utilize a number of independent contractors. none of our employees in the u.s. is represented by a labor union. in certain international subsidiaries, our employees are represented by workers councils or statutory labor unions. in general, we believe that our relations with our employees are good. 14 table of contents website access to harris reports; available information general. we maintain an internet website at http://harris.com. our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to such reports, filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act, are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the securities and exchange commission (the sec ). we also will provide the reports in electronic or paper form free of charge upon request. we also make available free of charge on our website our annual report to shareholders and proxy statement. our website and the information posted thereon are not incorporated into this report or any current or other periodic report that we file with or furnish to the sec. all reports we file with or furnish to the sec also are available free of charge via the sec electronic data gathering and retrieval, or edgar, system available through the sec website at http://www.sec.gov. additional information relating to our business, including our business segments, is set forth in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report. corporate governance principles and committee charters. we previously adopted corporate governance principles, which are available on the corporate governance section of our website at http://harris.com/corporate_governance/ . in addition, the charters of each of the standing committees of our board, namely, the audit committee, business conduct and corporate responsibility committee, corporate governance committee, finance committee and management development and compensation committee, are also available on the corporate governance section of our website. a copy of the charters is also available free of charge upon written request to our secretary at harris corporation, 1025 west nasa boulevard, melbourne, florida 32919. certifications. we have filed with the sec the certifications required by section 302 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 as exhibits to this report. in addition, an annual ceo certification was submitted by our chief executive officer to the new york stock exchange ( nyse ) in november 2012 in accordance with the nyse listing standards, which included a certification that he was not aware of any violation by harris of the nyse corporate governance listing standards. item 1a. risk factors. we have described many of the trends and other factors that we believe could impact our business and future results in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report. in addition, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are subject to, and could be materially adversely affected by, various risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, those set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or our anticipated future results. we depend on u.s. government customers for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of this relationship or a shift in u.s. government funding priorities could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are highly dependent on sales to u.s. government customers. the percentage of our revenue that was derived from sales to u.s. government customers, including the dod and intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military sales funded through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, was approximately 67 percent in fiscal 2013, 70 percent in fiscal 2012 and 78 percent in fiscal 2011. therefore, any significant disruption or deterioration of our relationship with the u.s. government would significantly reduce our revenue. our competitors continuously engage in efforts to expand their business relationships with the u.s. government and will continue these efforts in the future, and the u.s. government may choose to use other contractors. we expect that a majority of the business that we seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through competitive bidding. the u.s. government has increasingly relied on certain types of contracts that are subject to a competitive bidding process, including idiq, gwac, general services administration schedule and other multi-award contracts, which has resulted in greater competition and increased pricing pressure. we operate in highly competitive markets and our competitors may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do in some areas, and we may not be able to continue to win competitively awarded contracts or to obtain task orders under multi-award contracts. further, the competitive bidding process involves significant cost and managerial time to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us, as well as the risk that we may fail to accurately estimate the resources and costs required to fulfill any contract awarded to us. following any contract award, we may experience significant expense or delay, contract modification or contract rescission as a result of our competitors protesting or challenging contracts awarded to us in competitive bidding. our u.s. government programs must compete with programs managed by other government contractors and with other policy imperatives for consideration for limited resources and for uncertain levels of funding during the budget and appropriation process. budget and appropriations decisions made by the u.s. government are outside of our control and have long-term consequences for our business. 15 table of contents u.s. government spending priorities and dod spending levels are becoming increasingly uncertain and difficult to predict and are affected by numerous factors, including sequestration (automatic, across-the-board u.s. government budgetary spending cuts) and its impact on the dod budget and other programs and whether it will be superseded by alternate arrangements. a shift in u.s. government spending priorities or an increase in non-procurement spending at the expense of our programs (for example, through in-sourcing ), or a reduction in total u.s. government spending, could have material adverse consequences on our future business. for more information regarding sequestration, see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations business considerations industry-wide opportunities, challenges and risks of this report. we depend significantly on u.s. government contracts, which often are only partially funded, subject to immediate termination, and heavily regulated and audited. the termination or failure to fund, or negative audit findings for, one or more of these contracts could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. over its lifetime, a u.s. government program may be implemented by the award of many different individual contracts and subcontracts. the funding of u.s. government programs is subject to congressional appropriations. although multi-year contracts may be authorized and appropriated in connection with major procurements, congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis. procurement funds are typically made available for obligation over the course of three years. consequently, programs often receive only partial funding initially, and additional funds are obligated only as congress authorizes further appropriations. the termination of funding for a u.s. government program would result in a loss of anticipated future revenue attributable to that program, which could have an adverse impact on our operations. in addition, the termination of a program or the failure to commit additional funds to a program that already has been started could result in lost revenue and increase our overall costs of doing business. generally, u.s. government contracts are subject to oversight audits by u.s. government representatives. such audits could result in adjustments to our contract costs. any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, and such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. we have recorded contract revenues based upon costs we expect to realize upon final audit. however, we do not know the outcome of any future audits and adjustments and we may be required to materially reduce our revenues or profits upon completion and final negotiation of audits. negative audit findings could also result in termination of a contract, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or debarment from u.s. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. in addition, u.s. government contracts generally contain provisions permitting termination, in whole or in part, without prior notice at the u.s. government convenience upon the payment only for work done and commitments made at the time of termination. we can give no assurance that one or more of our u.s. government contracts will not be terminated under these circumstances. also, we can give no assurance that we would be able to procure new contracts to offset the revenue or backlog lost as a result of any termination of our u.s. government contracts. because a significant portion of our revenue is dependent on our performance and payment under our u.s. government contracts, the loss of one or more large contracts could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our government business also is subject to specific procurement regulations and a variety of socio-economic and other requirements. these requirements, although customary in u.s. government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. these costs might increase in the future, thereby reducing our margins, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could lead to fines, penalties, repayments, or compensatory or treble damages, or suspension or debarment from u.s. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. among the causes for debarment are violations of various laws, including those related to procurement integrity, export control, u.s. government security regulations, employment practices, protection of the environment, accuracy of records, proper recording of costs and foreign corruption. the termination of a u.s. government contract or relationship as a result of any of these acts would have an adverse impact on our operations and could have an adverse effect on our standing and eligibility for future u.s. government contracts. we could be negatively impacted by a security breach, through cyber attack, cyber intrusion or otherwise, or other significant disruption of our it networks and related systems or of those we operate for certain of our customers. we face the risk, as does any company, of a security breach, whether through cyber attack or cyber intrusion over the internet, malware, computer viruses, attachments to e-mails, persons inside our organization or persons with access to systems inside our organization, or other significant disruption of our it networks and related systems. we face an added risk of a security breach or other significant disruption of the it networks and related systems that we develop, 16 table of contents install, operate and maintain for certain of our customers, which may involve managing and protecting information relating to national security and other sensitive government functions or personally identifiable or protected health information. the risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. as a communications and it company, and particularly as a government contractor, we face a heightened risk of a security breach or disruption from threats to gain unauthorized access to our and our customers proprietary or classified information on our it networks and related systems and to the it networks and related systems that we operate and maintain for certain of our customers. these types of information and it networks and related systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day-to-day operations, and, in some cases, are critical to the operations of certain of our customers. although we make significant efforts to maintain the security and integrity of these types of information and it networks and related systems, and we have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption, there can be no assurance that our security efforts and measures will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging. even the most well protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because attempted security breaches, particularly cyber attacks and intrusions, or disruptions will occur in the future, and because the techniques used in such attempts are constantly evolving and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed not be detected and, in fact, may not be detected. in some cases, the resources of foreign governments may be behind such attacks. accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures, and thus it is virtually impossible for us to entirely mitigate this risk. a security breach or other significant disruption involving these types of information and it networks and related systems could: disrupt the proper functioning of these networks and systems and therefore our operations and/or those of certain of our customers; result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of, proprietary, confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable information of ours or our customers, including trade secrets, which others could use to compete against us or for disruptive, destructive or otherwise harmful purposes and outcomes; compromise national security and other sensitive government functions; require significant management attention and resources to remedy the damages that result; subject us to claims for contract breach, damages, credits, penalties or termination; and damage our reputation with our customers (particularly agencies of the u.s. government) and the public generally. any or all of the foregoing could have a negative impact on our business, financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows. we enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses in the event of cost overruns or a significant increase in inflation. we have a number of fixed-price contracts, which allow us to benefit from cost savings, but subject us to the risk of potential cost overruns, particularly for firm fixed-price contracts because we assume all of the cost burden. if our initial estimates are incorrect, we can lose money on these contracts. u.s. government contracts can expose us to potentially large losses because the u.s. government can hold us responsible for completing a project or, in certain circumstances, paying the entire cost of its replacement by another provider regardless of the size or foreseeability of any cost overruns that occur over the life of the contract. because many of these contracts involve new technologies and applications and can last for years, unforeseen events, such as technological difficulties, fluctuations in the price of raw materials, problems with our suppliers and cost overruns, can result in the contractual price becoming less favorable or even unprofitable to us over time. the u.s. and other countries also may experience a significant increase in inflation. a significant increase in inflation rates could have a significant adverse impact on the profitability of these contracts. furthermore, if we do not meet contract deadlines or specifications, we may need to renegotiate contracts on less favorable terms, be forced to pay penalties or liquidated damages or suffer major losses if the customer exercises its right to terminate. in addition, some of our contracts have provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights, and if we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts we may not realize their full benefits. our results of operations are dependent on our ability to maximize our earnings from our contracts. cost overruns could have an adverse impact on our financial results. the potential impact of such risk on our financial results would increase if the mix of our contracts and programs shifted toward a greater percentage of fixed-price contracts, particularly firm fixed-price contracts. 17 table of contents we derive a significant portion of our revenue from international operations and are subject to the risks of doing business internationally, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates. we are dependent on sales to customers outside the u.s. the percentage of our total revenue represented by revenue from products and services exported from the u.s. (including foreign military sales) or manufactured or rendered abroad was 26 percent in fiscal 2013, 24 percent in fiscal 2012 and 19 percent in fiscal 2011. approximately 32 percent of our international business in fiscal 2013 was transacted in local currency. losses resulting from currency rate fluctuations can adversely affect our results. we expect that international revenue will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue. also, a significant portion of our international revenue is from, and an increasing portion of our business activity is being conducted in, less-developed countries. we are subject to risks of doing business internationally, including: currency exchange controls, fluctuations of currency and currency revaluations; the laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments relating to investments and operations, as well as u.s. laws affecting the activities of u.s. companies abroad, including the foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ); changes in regulatory requirements, including business or operating license requirements, imposition of tariffs or embargoes, export controls and other trade restrictions; uncertainties and restrictions concerning the availability of funding, credit or guarantees; the complexity and necessity of using, and disruptions involving our, international dealers, distributors, sales representatives and consultants; the difficulties of managing a geographically dispersed organization and culturally diverse workforces, including compliance with local laws and practices; difficulties associated with repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner and changes in tax laws; import and export licensing requirements and regulations, as well as unforeseen changes in export regulations; uncertainties as to local laws and enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights and occasional requirements for onerous contract clauses; and rapid changes in government, economic and political policies, political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of international boycotts or u.s. anti-boycott legislation. our reputation and ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of our employees, agents or business partners. we have implemented compliance controls, policies and procedures designed to prevent reckless or criminal acts from being committed by our employees, agents or business partners that would violate the laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including laws governing payments to government officials (such as the fcpa), and to detect any such reckless or criminal acts committed. we cannot ensure, however, that our controls, policies and procedures will prevent or detect all such reckless or criminal acts. if not prevented, such reckless or criminal acts could subject us to civil or criminal investigations and monetary and non-monetary penalties and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct business, our results of operations and our reputation. we may not be successful in obtaining the necessary export licenses to conduct certain operations abroad, and congress may prevent proposed sales to certain foreign governments. we must first obtain export and other licenses and authorizations from various u.s. government agencies before we are permitted to sell certain products and technologies outside of the u.s. for example, the u.s. department of state must notify congress at least 15 to 60 days, depending on the size and location of the proposed sale, prior to authorizing certain sales of defense equipment and services to foreign governments. during that time, congress may take action to block the proposed sale. we can give no assurance that we will continue to be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses or authorizations or that congress will not prevent or delay certain sales. any significant impairment of our ability to sell products or technologies outside of the u.s. could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the continued effects of the general weakness in the global economy and the u.s. government budget deficits and national debt and sequestration could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the economies of the u.s. and many foreign countries in which we do business continue to show weakness or limited improvement. we are unable to predict the impact, severity and duration of these economic events. the continued effects of these economic events and the u.s. government budget deficits and national debt and sequestration could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in a number of ways. possible effects of these economic conditions include the following: the u.s. government could reduce or delay its spending on, or reprioritize its spending away from, the government programs in which we participate; 18 table of contents the u.s. government may be unable to complete its budget process before the end of its fiscal year on september 30 and thus would be required either to shut down or be funded pursuant to a continuing resolution that authorizes agencies of the u.s. government to continue operations but does not authorize new spending initiatives, either of which could result in reduced or delayed orders or payments for products and services we provide. although this historically has not had a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations, if the u.s. government budget process results in a shutdown or prolonged operation under a continuing resolution, it may decrease our revenue, profitability or cash flows or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations; sequestration and its impact on the dod budget and other programs and whether it will be superseded by alternate arrangements are increasing the uncertainty as to, and the difficulty in predicting, u.s. government spending priorities and dod spending levels; we may experience declines in revenue, profitability and cash flows as a result of reduced or delayed orders or payments or other factors caused by the economic problems of our customers and prospective customers (including u.s. federal, state and local governments); we may experience supply chain delays, disruptions or other problems associated with financial constraints faced by our suppliers and subcontractors; and we may incur increased costs or experience difficulty with future borrowings under our commercial paper program or credit facilities or in the debt markets, or otherwise with financing our operating, investing (including any future acquisitions) or financing activities. our future success will depend on our ability to develop new products, systems, services and technologies that achieve market acceptance in our current and future markets. both our commercial and government businesses are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry standards. accordingly, our performance depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: identify emerging technological trends in our current and target markets; develop and maintain competitive products, systems and services; enhance our offerings by adding innovative hardware, software or other features that differentiate our products, systems and services from those of our competitors; and develop, manufacture and bring to market cost-effective offerings quickly. we believe that, in order to remain competitive in the future, we will need to continue to develop new products, systems, services and technologies, requiring the investment of significant financial resources. the need to make these expenditures could divert our attention and resources from other projects, and we cannot be sure that these expenditures ultimately will lead to the timely development of new products, systems, services or technologies. due to the design complexity of some of our products, systems, services and technologies, we may experience delays in completing development and introducing new products, systems, services or technologies in the future. any delays could result in increased costs of development or redirect resources from other projects. in addition, we cannot provide assurances that the markets for our products, systems, services or technologies will develop as we currently anticipate. the failure of our products, systems, services or technologies to gain market acceptance could significantly reduce our revenue and harm our business. furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing products, systems, services or technologies that gain market acceptance in advance of our products, systems, services or technologies, or that our competitors will not develop new products, systems, services or technologies that cause our existing products, systems, services or technologies to become non-competitive or obsolete, which could adversely affect our results of operations. the future direction of the domestic and global economies, including its impact on customer demand, also will have a significant impact on our overall performance. we participate in markets that are often subject to uncertain economic conditions, which makes it difficult to estimate growth in our markets and, as a result, future income and expenditures. we participate in u.s. and international markets that are subject to uncertain economic conditions. in particular, u.s. government spending priorities and dod spending levels are becoming increasingly uncertain and difficult to predict and are affected by numerous factors, including sequestration and its impact on the dod budget and other programs and whether it will be superseded by alternate arrangements. as a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth in the markets in which we participate. because all components of our budgeting and forecasting are dependent upon estimates of growth in the markets we serve, the uncertainty renders estimates of or guidance relating to future revenue, income and expenditures even more difficult. as a result, we may make significant investments and expenditures but never realize the anticipated benefits. 19 table of contents we cannot predict the consequences of future geo-political events, but they may adversely affect the markets in which we operate, our ability to insure against risks, our operations or our profitability. ongoing instability and current conflicts in the middle east and asia and the potential for further conflicts and future terrorist activities and other recent geo-political events throughout the world have created economic and political uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and profitability. these matters cause uncertainty in the world financial and insurance markets and may significantly increase the political, economic and social instability in the geographic areas in which we operate. these matters also have caused the premiums charged for our insurance coverages to increase and may cause further increases or some coverages to be unavailable altogether. we have made, and may continue to make, strategic acquisitions and divestitures that involve significant risks and uncertainties. we have made, and we may continue to make, strategic acquisitions and divestitures that involve significant risks and uncertainties. these risks and uncertainties include: difficulty in identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions, including the risk that our due diligence does not identify or fully assess valuation issues, potential liabilities or other acquisition risks; difficulty in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations, including combining product and service offerings, and in entering into new markets in which we are not experienced, in an efficient and cost-effective manner while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures, and the risk that we encounter significant unanticipated costs or other problems associated with integration; difficulty in consolidating and rationalizing it infrastructure, which may include multiple legacy systems from various acquisitions and integrating software code; challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits expected from acquisitions; risk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the strategic acquisitions and divestitures do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; risk that we assume significant liabilities that exceed the limitations of any applicable indemnification provisions or the financial resources of any indemnifying parties; potential loss of key employees or customers of the businesses acquired or to be divested; risk that we are not able to complete strategic divestitures on satisfactory terms and conditions or within expected timeframes; and risk of diverting the attention of senior management from our existing operations. disputes with our subcontractors and the inability of our subcontractors to perform, or our key suppliers to timely deliver our components, parts or services, could cause our products or services to be produced or delivered in an untimely or unsatisfactory manner. we engage subcontractors on many of our contracts. we may have disputes with our subcontractors, including regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor, customer concerns about the subcontract, our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders under a subcontract, our hiring of the personnel of a subcontractor or vice versa or the subcontractor failure to comply with applicable law. in addition, there are certain parts, components and services for many of our products and services which we source from other manufacturers or vendors. some of our suppliers, from time to time, experience financial and operational difficulties, which may impact their ability to supply the materials, components, subsystems and services that we require. our supply chain could also be disrupted by external events, such as natural disasters or other significant disruptions (including extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics, acts of terrorism, cyber attacks and labor disputes), governmental actions and legislative or regulatory changes (including product certification or stewardship requirements, sourcing restrictions, product authenticity and climate change or greenhouse gas emission standards). any inability to develop alternative sources of supply on a cost-effective and timely basis could materially impair our ability to manufacture and deliver products and services to our customers. we can give no assurances that we will be free from disputes with our subcontractors, material supply problems or component, subsystems or services problems in the future. also, our subcontractors and other suppliers may not be able to acquire or maintain the quality of the materials, components, subsystems and services they supply, which might result in greater product returns, service problems and warranty claims and could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. third parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their intellectual property rights, and third parties may infringe upon our intellectual property rights. many of the markets we serve are characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights, which often has resulted in protracted and expensive litigation. third parties have claimed in the past and may claim in 20 table of contents the future that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing or to have infringed directly or indirectly upon those intellectual property rights. claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. moreover, we may not be able to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us, or at all. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain of our products, services and solutions. our success depends in large part on our proprietary technology. we rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, know-how, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. if we fail to successfully protect and enforce these rights, our competitive position could suffer. our pending patent and trademark registration applications may not be allowed, or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents or trademark registrations. in addition, our patents may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and police our intellectual property rights. we may not be able to detect infringement and our competitive position may be harmed before we do so. in addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. the outcome of litigation or arbitration in which we are involved is unpredictable and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. from time to time, we are defendants in a number of litigation matters and are involved in a number of arbitrations. these actions may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. no assurances can be given that the results of these or new matters will be favorable to us. an adverse resolution of lawsuits or arbitrations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we face certain significant risk exposures and potential liabilities that may not be covered adequately by insurance or indemnity. we are exposed to liabilities that are unique to the products and services we provide. a significant portion of our business relates to designing, developing and manufacturing advanced defense, technology and communications systems and products. new technologies associated with these systems and products may be untested or unproven. components of certain of the defense systems and products we develop are inherently dangerous. failures of satellites, missile systems, air traffic control systems, homeland security applications and aircraft have the potential to cause loss of life and extensive property damage. in most circumstances, we may receive indemnification from the u.s. government. while we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, and we may be forced to bear substantial costs from an accident or incident. it also is not possible for us to obtain insurance to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. substantial claims resulting from an incident in excess of u.s. government indemnity and our insurance coverage would harm our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. moreover, any accident or incident for which we are liable, even if fully insured, could negatively affect our standing with our customers and the public, thereby making it more difficult for us to compete effectively, and could significantly impact the cost and availability of adequate insurance in the future. changes in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. our future effective tax rate may be adversely affected by a number of factors including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not fully deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairment of goodwill or other long-term assets in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation expense; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; changes in domestic or international tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws; and the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact our results of operations for future periods. we have significant operations in locations that could be materially and adversely impacted in the event of a natural disaster or other significant disruption. our corporate headquarters and significant operations of our government communications systems segment are located in florida and significant operations of our integrated network solutions segment are located in houston, 21 table of contents texas, which areas are subject to the risk of major hurricanes. our worldwide operations and operations of our suppliers could be subject to natural disasters or other significant disruptions, including hurricanes, typhoons, tsunamis, floods, earthquakes, fires, water shortages, other extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics, acts of terrorism, power shortages and blackouts, telecommunications failures, cyber attacks and other natural and manmade disasters or disruptions. in the event of such a natural disaster or other disruption, we could experience disruptions or interruptions to our operations or the operations of our suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers or customers; destruction of facilities; and/or loss of life, all of which could materially increase our costs and expenses and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. changes in the regulatory framework under which our managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions operations are operated could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our domestic satellite and terrestrial communications solutions are currently provided on a private carrier basis and are therefore subject to lighter regulation by the federal communications commission and other federal, state and local agencies than if provided on a common carrier basis. our international satellite and terrestrial communications solutions operations are regulated by governments of various countries other than the u.s. and by other international authorities. the regulatory regimes applicable to our international satellite and terrestrial communications solutions operations frequently require that we obtain and maintain licenses for our operations and conduct our operations in accordance with prescribed standards. compliance with such requirements may inhibit our ability to quickly expand our operations into new countries, including in circumstances in which such expansion is required in order to provide uninterrupted service to existing customers with mobile operations as they move to new locations on short notice. failure to comply with such regulatory requirements could subject us to various penalties or sanctions. the adoption of new laws or regulations, changes to the existing domestic or international regulatory framework, new interpretations of the laws that apply to our operations, or the loss of, or a material limitation on, any of our material licenses could materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we rely on third parties to provide satellite bandwidth for our managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions, and any bandwidth constraints could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in our managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions operations, we compete for satellite bandwidth with other commercial entities, such as other satellite communications services providers and broadcasting companies, and with governmental entities, such as the military. in certain markets and at certain times, satellite bandwidth may be limited and/or pricing of satellite bandwidth could be subject to competitive pressure. in such cases, we may be unable to secure sufficient bandwidth needed to provide our managed satellite communications services, either at favorable rates or at all. this inability could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. changes in future business or other market conditions could cause business investments and/or recorded goodwill or other long-term assets to become impaired, resulting in substantial losses and write-downs that would reduce our results of operations. as part of our overall strategy, we will, from time to time, acquire a minority or majority interest in a business. these investments are made upon careful analysis and due diligence procedures designed to achieve a desired return or strategic objective. these procedures often involve certain assumptions and judgment in determining acquisition price. after acquisition, unforeseen issues could arise which adversely affect the anticipated returns or which are otherwise not recoverable as an adjustment to the purchase price. even after careful integration efforts, actual operating results may vary significantly from initial estimates. goodwill accounted for approximately 35 percent of our recorded total assets as of june 28, 2013. we evaluate the recoverability of recorded goodwill annually, as well as when we change reportable segments and when events or circumstances indicate there may be an impairment. the annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. principally, a decrease in expected reportable segment cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill. for additional information on accounting policies we have in place for impairment of goodwill, see our discussion under critical accounting policies and estimates in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report and note 1: significant accounting policies and note 3: discontinued operations in the notes. we must attract and retain key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. our business has a continuing need to attract and retain significant numbers of skilled personnel, including personnel holding security clearances, to support our growth and to replace individuals whose employment has terminated due to retirement or for other reasons. to the extent that the demand for qualified personnel exceeds supply, 22 table of contents as has been the case from time to time in recent years, we could experience higher labor, recruiting or training costs in order to attract and retain such employees, or could experience difficulties in performing under our contracts if our needs for such employees were unmet. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 52 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of doing business, we are exposed to the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rates and changes in interest rates. we employ established policies and procedures governing the use of financial instruments to manage our exposure to such risks. for a discussion of such policies and procedures and the related risks, see financial risk management in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report, which is incorporated by reference into this item 7a. 52 table of contentsrisk factors 14 risk factors of this report. all forward-looking statements are qualified by, and should be read in conjunction with, those risk factors. forward-looking statements are made in reliance on the safe harbor provisions of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended (the securities act ), and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the exchange act ), and are made as of the date of filing of this report, and we disclaim any intention or obligation, other than imposed by law, to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or developments or otherwise, after the date of filing of this report or, in the case of any document incorporated by reference, the date of that document. part i item 1. business. harris harris corporation, together with its subsidiaries, is an international communications and information technology company serving government and commercial markets in more than 125 countries. we are dedicated to developing best-in-class assured communications &reg; products, systems and services for global markets, including rf communications, integrated network solutions and government communications systems. harris corporation was incorporated in delaware in 1926 as the successor to three companies founded in the 1890s. our principal executive offices are located at 1025 west nasa boulevard, melbourne, florida 32919, and our telephone number is (321) 727-9100. our common stock is listed on the new york stock exchange under the symbol hrs. on june 27, 2014, we had approximately 14,000 employees. unless the context otherwise requires, the terms we, our, us, company and harris as used in this report refer to harris corporation and its subsidiaries. general we structure our operations primarily around the products and services we sell and the markets we serve, and we report the financial results of our operations in the following three business segments: rf communications, serving (i) u.s. department of defense and international tactical communications and (ii) public safety and professional communications markets; integrated network solutions, serving (i) it services, (ii) managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions and (iii) commercial healthcare solutions markets; and government communications systems, serving (i) civil, (ii) national intelligence and (iii) defense markets. in the third quarter of fiscal 2012, our board of directors approved a plan to exit our cyber integrated solutions operation ( cis ), which provided remote cloud hosting, and to dispose of the related assets, and we completed the sale of the remaining assets of cis in the first quarter of fiscal 2014. in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, our board of directors approved a plan to divest our broadcast communications operation ( broadcast communications ), which provided digital media management solutions in support of broadcast customers, and we completed the sale of broadcast communications in the third quarter of fiscal 2013. both cis and broadcast communications were formerly part of our integrated network solutions segment. for additional information regarding discontinued operations, see note 3: discontinued operations in 1 table of contents the notes to consolidated financial statements in this report (the notes ). except for disclosures related to our cash flows, or unless otherwise specified, disclosures in this report relate solely to our continuing operations. at the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal 2014, to leverage the breadth of our information technology ( it ) enterprise network and information assurance capabilities for the it services market, we began managing our cyber security network testing operation as part of our integrated network solutions segment rather than our government communications systems segment. as a result, we reassigned $2.4 million of goodwill (determined on a relative fair value basis) to our integrated network solutions segment from our government communications systems segment. the historical results, discussion and presentation of our business segments as set forth in this report have been adjusted to reflect the impact of this change to our business segment reporting structure for all periods presented in this report. financial information with respect to all of our other activities, including corporate costs not allocated to our business segments or discontinued operations, is reported as part of the unallocated corporate expense or non-operating income (loss) line items in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. financial information about our business segments financial information with respect to our business segments, including revenue, operating income or loss and total assets, and with respect to our operations outside the united states, is contained in note 23: business segments in the notes and is incorporated herein by reference. description of business by segment rf communications rf communications is a global supplier of secure tactical radio communications and high-grade encryption solutions for military, government and commercial customers and also of secure communications systems and equipment for public safety, utility and transportation customers. rf communications serves (i) u.s. department of defense and international tactical communications and (ii) public safety and professional communications markets. u.s. department of defense and international tactical communications market: we design, develop and manufacture a comprehensive line of secure radio communications products and systems for manpack, handheld, vehicular, airborne, strategic fixed-site and shipboard installations that span the communications architecture from high capacity line of site, backbone radios to small soldier personal radios and tablet computers. the radios operate in various radio frequency bands, including high-frequency ( hf ), very high-frequency ( vhf ), ultra high-frequency ( uhf ) and l-band, with higher frequencies supported for some of our network backbone products. our radio systems are highly flexible, interoperable and capable of supporting diverse mission requirements. our falcon &reg; families of tactical radios are built on software-defined radio platforms that are reprogrammable to add features or software upgrades. our falcon radios also have the highest grade embedded encryption and provide highly mobile, secure and reliable network communications capability without relying on a fixed infrastructure. this capability allows warfighters, for example, to remain connected with each other and their command structures and support organizations. it also provides them the ability to communicate information and maintain situational awareness of both friendly and opposing forces, which are critical to both the safety and success of their missions. our radio systems have been widely deployed throughout all branches of the u.s. department of defense ( dod ) and, in the international market, have been sold to more than 100 countries through our international distribution channels consisting of regional sales offices and a broad dealer network and have become the standard in many of those countries. unlike many of our competitors operating on a government-funded programs-driven business model, we operate in this market on a commercial customer-driven business model. this means that we anticipate market needs, invest our internal research and development resources, build to our internal forecast and provide ready-to-ship, commercial off-the-shelf ( cots ) products to customers, enabling us to bring products to market faster and adapt to changing customer requirements. we believe the u.s. market is transitioning from operational tempo to a modernization cycle driven by wideband technology and that demand in the international market is being driven not only by the transition to wideband capability, but also by the need for network system solutions. our extensive line of radios is designed to operate and interface well together and support a variety of tactical requirements, which we believe gives us a competitive advantage in the international market, where fully integrated solutions for command, control and communications are often required. we believe our unique commercial business model that drives speed and innovation, coupled with the scale provided by our extensive international presence, will continue to make us competitive in the global market. our falcon iii &reg; family of radios is the next generation of multiband, multi-mission tactical radios supporting u.s. and international network-centric operations worldwide. our falcon iii radios address the full range of current mission and interoperability requirements and are fully upgradeable to address changing technical standards and mission requirements of the future. advances in our falcon iii radios include the support of wideband networking 2 table of contents waveforms, extended frequency range and significant reductions in weight and size compared with previous generations. our falcon iii radios are used in a wide variety of ground, vehicular and airborne applications and include the following: our multiband manpack radio, the an/prc-117g ( 117g ), which provides wideband networking capability, enabling enhanced situational awareness through high-bandwidth applications such as streaming video, simultaneous voice and data feeds, collaborative chat and connectivity to secure networks, and which is national security agency ( nsa ) type-1-certified for narrowband communications, as well as for wideband communications using our harris-developed adaptive networking wideband waveform ( anw2 ) for high bandwidth data operation and the u.s. military joint tactical radio system ( jtrs ) soldier radio waveform ( srw ); our 2-channel vehicular radio system, the an/vrc-118 ( 118 ), which uses the dod-developed wideband networking waveform ( wnw ) over l-band, and which we began shipping in fiscal 2014 under the u.s. army jtrs mid-tier networking vehicular radio ( mnvr ) program; our multiband handheld radios, the an/prc-152 ( 152 ), which is the world most widely fielded jtrs-approved software-defined handheld radio and offers a wide range of capabilities, and the an/prc-152a ( 152a ), which builds on our 152 by adding wideband, networked communications capability and is the first radio of its kind to support both a full range of narrowband legacy waveforms and wideband networking waveforms in a handheld platform; and our multi-channel manpack radio, the rf-340m ( 340m ), which is the first and only commercially developed, nsa type-1-certified radio offering two channels integrated into the same chassis, and our wideband rifleman team radio, the rf-330e ( 330e ), which is the commercially developed u.s. variant of our widely fielded international soldier personal radio. in fiscal 2014, we continued to invest to position ourselves for tactical radio modernization opportunities, for example, in developing our 340m and 330e and in incorporating the powerful mobile user objective system ( muos ) waveform into our products. our 340m and 330e are our next-generation solutions for the u.s. army jtrs handheld, manpack and small form factor tactical radio ( hms ) program, for which the u.s. army has officially changed its procurement strategy to full and open competition and a multi-vendor award, allowing us an opportunity to compete. we received the first order for our 340m from a dod customer in fiscal 2014, and our receipt of nsa certification was a significant milestone needed for deliveries to begin. muos is the dod next-generation military satellite communications ( satcom ) system that will deliver cellular-based service through tactical radios. we are embedding muos capability in our 340m, as well as offering it as a separate simple and fast software upgrade for widely fielded 117gs, creating an opportunity for the dod to transition its 117g inventory to muos-capable radios and quickly maximize the use of the satellite infrastructure. examples of significant awards for us in fiscal 2014 included the following: 5-year multi-vendor, indefinite delivery indefinite quantity ( idiq ) contracts from the u.s. army for srw vehicular appliqu&eacute; systems, with a potential total value of $988 million; a 2-year, $141 million sole-source, idiq contract from the u.s. army for the mnvr program, with an initial order of $8 million for up to 232 radio systems; an $847 million increase in the ceiling value of our sole-source, idiq contract with the u.s. army communications-electronics command ( cecom ), which supports international sales of tactical radio systems under the u.s. government foreign military sales program; and a number of significant international orders, many of which are a part of multi-year programs or larger opportunities, across a broad customer base, including a $100 million follow-on order from australia; orders of $82 million and $49 million from two countries in asia, $78 million from a country in central asia and $14 million from the philippines; orders of $49 million and $15 million from two countries in the middle east; orders of $36 million and $21 million from two nato countries; and a $28 million order from a country in latin america. public safety and professional communications market: we supply assured communications &reg; systems and equipment for public safety, federal, utility, commercial and transportation organizations. we design, build, distribute, maintain and supply wireless communications systems. our voice, interoperability, data and access ( vida ) network platform is a unified internet protocol ( ip ) based voice and data communications system that provides network-level interoperable communications among public safety agencies by supporting a full line of communications systems, including opensky &reg; , networkfirst, p25 ip and enhanced digital access communication system ( edacs ). our vida &reg; network solutions currently serve as the backbone in some of the largest and most advanced statewide and regional communications networks in north america. we also are investing in next-generation, secure public safety-grade long term evolution ( lte ) solutions for voice, video and data applications. 3 table of contents we also offer a full range of single-band land mobile radio terminals, as well as our unity tm family of multiband radios, including a handheld radio and a full-spectrum mobile radio for vehicles. our unity multiband radios cover all public safety frequency bands in a single radio; operate on association of public safety communications officials international ( apco ) p25 conventional and trunked systems; are backwards compatible with analog fm systems; and include advanced capabilities, such as an internal global positioning system ( gps ) receiver for situational awareness, internal secure bluetooth &reg; wireless technology and background noise suppression features. they also include true software-defined radio architecture that allows flexibility for future growth, including a software-only upgrade to apco p25 phase 2, the next-generation standard for mission-critical communications. our unity radios multiband, multi-mode capabilities enable a single radio to communicate with multiple organizations, jurisdictions and agencies operating on different frequencies and systems, providing a significant improvement over many current radio systems for u.s. public safety, which are not interoperable and thus require users to carry multiple radios or route transmissions through ad-hoc network bridges, often configured at the time of an emergency, and resulting in instances where agencies responding to a common incident cannot talk to each other. other examples of our public safety and professional communications solutions and services include the following: we are designing and building the alberta first responders radio communications system that will provide public safety communications within the 256,000 square-mile province of alberta, canada; we are deploying a communications network for the san francisco municipal transportation authority to increase operational efficiencies, improve safety and provide interoperability with public safety agencies; we are deploying an apco p25 system for the u.s. marine corps installations east region that also will provide interoperability with civilian agencies; and we are designing and deploying a vida network system for the trinidad and tobago ministry of national security that will improve voice and data communication and provide interoperability among first responders and the ministry agencies. revenue, operating income and backlog: revenue for our rf communications segment decreased 1.1 percent to $1,828 million in fiscal 2014 compared with $1,849 million in fiscal 2013, and was $2,144 million in fiscal 2012. segment operating income decreased 2.7 percent to $561.5 million in fiscal 2014 compared with $576.9 million in fiscal 2013, and was $703.7 million in fiscal 2012. the percentage of our revenue contributed by this segment was 36 percent in fiscal 2014 compared with 36 percent in fiscal 2013 and 39 percent in fiscal 2012. the percentage of this segment revenue that was derived outside of the u.s. was approximately 54 percent in fiscal 2014 compared with approximately 44 percent in fiscal 2013 and 40 percent in fiscal 2012. the percentage of this segment revenue that was derived from sales to u.s. government customers, including the dod and intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military sales funded through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors was approximately 46 percent in fiscal 2014 compared with approximately 43 percent in fiscal 2013 and 46 percent in fiscal 2012. for a general description of our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, including a discussion of revenue generated thereunder and of cost-reimbursable versus fixed-price contracts, see item 1. business principal customers; government contracts of this report. in general, this segment domestic products are sold and serviced directly to customers through its sales organization and through established distribution channels. internationally, this segment markets and sells its products and services through regional sales offices and established distribution channels. for a general description of our international business, see item 1. business international business of this report. the funded backlog for this segment was $1,134 million at the end of fiscal 2014 compared with $1,341 million at the end of fiscal 2013 and $1,300 million at the end of fiscal 2012. additional information regarding funded backlog is provided under item 1. business funded and unfunded backlog of this report. for a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, see item 1. business principal customers; government contracts, item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this report. integrated network solutions integrated network solutions provides integrated communications and information technology ( it ) and services, including a variety of trusted networking capabilities, to support government, energy, maritime and healthcare customers. integrated network solutions serves (i) it services, (ii) managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions and (iii) commercial healthcare solutions markets. it services market: we are a leading systems and network integrator and prime contractor providing mission-critical end-to-end it services for defense, intelligence, homeland security and civilian government customers. we have positions as a prime contractor on many key u.s. government idiq contract vehicles related to it services. 4 table of contents examples of our work in designing, integrating, deploying, operating and supporting secure communications systems and information networks for complex, mission-critical applications include the following: we are providing operations and maintenance support at locations around the world for the communications functions for the u.s. air force 50th space wing satellite control network, a global, continuously operational network of ground stations, operational control nodes and communications links that support launch and command and control ( c2 ) of various space programs managed by the dod and other national security space organizations, under the network and space operations and maintenance ( nsom ) program, and we are a leader in satellite mission c2 systems, which feature cots design and high levels of flexibility, are designed for government and commercial applications, and support single-satellite missions as well as some of the largest and most complex satellite fleets deployed; we are providing the government of canada with engineering and logistics services to support the avionics systems on the cf-18 hornet fighter aircraft under the cf-18 avionics optimized weapon system support program; we are providing it integration of installation, training, help desk, passport and configuration management services for the u.s. department of state under the consular affairs support services contract in support of more than 240 u.s. embassies and consulates around the world; we are providing comprehensive operational and system maintenance support and engineering and technology enhancements for the defense information systems agency crisis management system; we are providing enterprise it support services to the north american air defense command and the u.s. northern command; and we are (i) providing electronic health record interoperability to enhance continuity of care between the dod and the department of veterans affairs ( va ), (ii) designing and installing a wireless network for va medical centers and (iii) improving electronic data interoperability for claims processing, as one of eight companies in the large business category awarded the 5-year transformation twenty-one total technology ( t4 ) idiq contract vehicle from the va designed to upgrade the va it system and covering services to streamline and modernize va operations, including patient care delivery at more than 150 va hospitals. managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions market: harris caprock communications is a global provider of end-to-end fully-managed hybrid communications network solutions to critical operations in remote and harsh locations for energy, maritime and government customers. we own and operate a robust global infrastructure that includes teleports on six continents; network operations centers running 24 hours per day, seven days per week; local presence in 23 countries; and over 275 global field service personnel supporting customer locations in more than 80 countries across north america, central and south america, europe, africa and asia-pacific. our customers include major land-based and offshore energy, mining and engineering and construction companies; leading transocean shipping and cruise line companies; and government and military customers with defense and intelligence missions. we combine satellite, terrestrial and wireless technologies to provide comprehensive communications solutions that connect customers remote sites with each other and with distant headquarters. our solutions focus on voice, data and networking solutions for remote sites and are supported by a global managed satellite network. examples of our end-to-end fully-managed hybrid communications network solutions include the following: we are providing complete turnkey managed satellite communications services, including all shipboard equipment, onboard it system integration and satellite bandwidth, under multi-year agreements covering 150 vessels operating worldwide for one energy customer and over 100 vessels operating worldwide for another energy customer; we are providing data, voice and internet service to drilling ships operating in offshore brazil and satellite communications to drilling ships operating in offshore norway; we are delivering turnkey managed satellite communications to a fleet of 53 offshore supply vessels operating in the north sea, brazil, australia and indian pacific regions and managed communication services on over 300 commercial shipping and service vessels; we are providing dual-band satellite voice, data and internet services for a major cruise line across its fleet of 103 ships and providing global communications services onboard 34 cruise ships for another major cruise line to improve overall communications performance and enhance guest and crew experiences; and we are providing managed service networks leveraging 2 ghz of c-, ku-, uhf- and x-band commercial space segment capacity for monitoring and control, teleport services, terrestrial communications, operations and maintenance to dod agency customers operating around the world and to classified customers, supporting a range of missions, including airborne intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance ( isr ), tactical field-deployed communications and continuity of operations. 5 table of contents commercial healthcare solutions market: we offer commercial and international healthcare providers a full range of interoperability and business intelligence solutions. our interoperability solutions include fusionfx &reg; , our new vendor-neutral integrated suite of software tools that advances our previous interoperability platform by incorporating a new service-oriented architecture foundation and that integrates with leading electronic health record and other legacy systems to securely bring together patient information from across the continuum of care and makes it available to clinical teams for value-based, accountable and coordinated care. we released fusionfx in fiscal 2014 and have been increasing the numbers of live hospital deployments and system users. revenue, operating income and backlog: revenue for our integrated network solutions segment decreased 7.2 percent to $1,463 million in fiscal 2014 compared with $1,576 million in fiscal 2013, and was $1,610 million in fiscal 2012. segment operating income increased 45.9 percent to $116.4 million in fiscal 2014 compared with $79.8 million in fiscal 2013, and was $72.4 million in fiscal 2012. the percentage of our revenue contributed by this segment was 29 percent in fiscal 2014 compared with 31 percent in fiscal 2013 and 30 percent in fiscal 2012. the percentages of this segment revenue under contracts directly with end customers and under contracts with prime contractors were approximately 77 percent and 23 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2014 compared with approximately 78 percent and 22 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2013 and 80 percent and 20 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2012. the percentage of this segment revenue that was derived outside of the u.s. was approximately 33 percent in fiscal 2014 compared with approximately 30 percent in fiscal 2013 and 27 percent in fiscal 2012. the percentages of this segment revenue in a particular fiscal year represented by this segment largest u.s. government program by revenue in such fiscal year and five largest u.s. government programs by revenue in such fiscal year were approximately 9 percent and 28 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2014 compared with approximately 9 percent and 29 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2013 and 9 percent and 30 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2012. the percentage of this segment revenue that was derived from sales to u.s. government customers, including the dod and intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military sales funded through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, was approximately 60 percent in fiscal 2014 compared with approximately 62 percent in fiscal 2013 and 66 percent in fiscal 2012. for a general description of our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, including a discussion of revenue generated thereunder and of cost-reimbursable versus fixed-price contracts, see item 1. business principal customers; government contracts of this report. in general, this segment domestic products are sold and serviced directly to customers through its sales organization and through established distribution channels. internationally, this segment markets and sells its products and services through regional sales offices and established distribution channels. for a general description of our international business, see item 1. business international business of this report. the funded backlog for this segment was $973 million at the end of fiscal 2014 compared with $934 million at the end of fiscal 2013 and $964 million at the end of fiscal 2012. unfunded backlog for this segment was $921 million at the end of fiscal 2014 compared with $1,118 million at the end of fiscal 2013 and $1,242 million at the end of fiscal 2012. additional information regarding funded and unfunded backlog is provided under item 1. business funded and unfunded backlog of this report. for a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, see item 1. business principal customers; government contracts, item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this report. government communications systems government communications systems conducts advanced research and develops, produces, integrates and supports advanced communications and information systems that solve the mission-critical challenges of our civilian, intelligence and defense government customers worldwide, primarily the u.s. government. government communication systems serves (i) civil, (ii) national intelligence and (iii) defense markets. civil market: we provide highly reliable, mission-critical communications and information processing systems that meet the most demanding needs of civilian u.s. government agencies, including the federal aviation administration ( faa ) and the national oceanic and atmospheric administration ( noaa ). we use our ability to implement and manage large, complex programs that integrate secure, advanced communications and information processing technologies in order to improve productivity and to achieve cost savings for our customers. our networks and information systems for large-scale, geographically dispersed enterprises offer advanced capabilities for collecting, processing, analyzing, interpreting, displaying, distributing, storing and retrieving data. we are a leader in satellite ground data processing, in which our systems consisting of complex suites of hardware and software receive sensor data from satellites and turn it into useable information. as an example of our capabilities, we are the prime contractor and system architect under a 20-year contract awarded in july 2002, with a potential value of $5 billion, for the faa telecommunications infrastructure ( fti ) 6 table of contents program to integrate, modernize, operate and maintain the communications infrastructure for the u.s. air traffic control system. we designed and deployed, and are currently operating and maintaining, the fti network, which is a fully operational, modern, secure and efficient network providing voice, data and video communications deployed at more than 4,500 faa sites across the u.s. we recently have been awarded multiple contracts for essential elements of the faa multi-billion dollar next generation air transportation system ( nextgen ) initiative to transform the u.s. air traffic control system to meet future requirements, including: 7-year contracts, with an aggregate contract value of $481 million, for the data communications integrated services ( datacomm ) program (including the data communications network service component) to transform voice-based air traffic control to automated air traffic management; a 15-year, $291 million nextgen national airspace system ( nas ) voice system ( nvs ) contract to create a modern voice over internet protocol ( voip ) network for communications among air traffic controllers, pilots and ground personnel; and a 5-year, $63 million nas enterprise messaging service ( nems ) idiq contract that provides the systems wide information management ( swim ) program with enterprise-wide data sharing for a variety of critical information such as flight planning, traffic flow, surface radar and weather. we also have developed a number of other solutions under faa programs, including a voice switching and control system providing the critical air-to-ground communications links between en-route aircraft and air traffic controllers throughout the continental u.s.; an integrated weather briefing and flight planning system for alaska general aviation community; a meteorological data processing system that generates radar mosaic data for air traffic controller displays and delivers weather data to critical subsystems within the nas; and a satellite-based alaskan nas interfacility communications system linking the alaskan air route traffic control center in anchorage with faa facilities throughout the region. another example of our capabilities relates to the noaa geostationary operational environmental satellite series r ( goes-r ) ground and antenna segment weather programs. under two 10-year contracts, with an aggregate potential value of approximately $1 billion (including change orders), we are providing a complete, end-to-end solution to design, develop, deploy and operate the ground segment system that will receive and process satellite data and generate and distribute weather data to more than 10,000 direct users, as well as providing the command and control of operational satellites. we also are supplying antennas and control systems that will provide communications links for command, telemetry and sensor data, as well as the communications link to direct data users. the new antennas will operate with next-generation goes-r satellites and will be compatible with existing goes-n through goes-p satellites. in fiscal 2013, the goes-r weather program transitioned from the design and development phase to the integration, test and deployment phase. we also are modernizing the ground segment of the tracking and data relay satellite system ( tdrss ) network under a 5-year contract, potentially worth $140 million, for the space network ground segment sustainment ( sgss ) program for the national aeronautics and space administration ( nasa ). the tdrss network is used by satellites and spacecraft in low-earth orbit to relay data continuously to ground stations in white sands, new mexico and in guam. the modernization will improve situational awareness for tdrss network operators, upgrade computing and signal processing equipment, enhance reliability and maintainability, improve efficiency and reduce operations and sustainment costs. national intelligence market: a significant portion of this market involves classified programs. although classified programs generally are not discussed in this report, the operating results relating to classified programs are included in our consolidated financial statements. we believe that the business risks associated with those programs do not differ materially from the business risks of other u.s. government programs. we are a major developer, supplier and integrator of communications and information processing products, systems and networks for a diverse base of u.s. intelligence community programs, and we support the ongoing transformation of the intelligence community into a more collaborative enterprise. serving primarily national intelligence and security agency customers, including nsa, the national reconnaissance office ( nro ) and the national geospatial-intelligence agency ( nga ), we provide integrated isr solutions that improve situational awareness, data collection accuracy and product analysis by correlating near real-time mission data and intelligence reference data for display and analysis by strategic and tactical planners and decision makers. our isr systems help to integrate information across the analyst workflow, accelerating the movement of information that has been collected and processed. for example, our image processing capabilities extend from algorithm development through delivery of operations systems, and we are providing advanced image exploitation and dissemination solutions for isr applications by advancing image processing, image data fusion, display technologies and digital product generation 7 table of contents techniques. applicable technologies range from new techniques for merging and displaying imagery to automated techniques for image screening, cueing and remote visualization. also, our mapping and visualization capabilities provide complete, accurate and timely knowledge about the threat, the terrain, the status and the location of single or multiple opposing and friendly forces and their support by utilizing data, pictures, voice and video drawn from vast storage banks or from real-time input which can be transmitted around the world in fractions of a second. in addition, we have industry-leading capabilities in the architecture, design and development of highly specialized satellite antennas, structures, phased arrays and on-board processors, which are used to enable next-generation satellite systems to provide the u.s. military and intelligence communities with strategic and tactical advantages. we are also a leader in the design and development of antenna and reflector technologies for commercial space telecommunications applications. with more than 50 reflectors in orbit, we are the leading supplier of large reflector apertures and deployable mesh antenna systems for government and commercial applications. in fiscal 2014, we were awarded a number of new contracts and follow-on contracts under classified programs. in addition, we were awarded two 5-year, single-award idiq contracts, with an aggregate contract value of $773 million, by the nga for the foundation geoint content management ( fgcm ) program to provide imagery products for two of three regions - $365 million for region a for the u.s. pacific command and u.s. northern command and $408 million for region c for the u.s. africa command and u.s. southern command (the region c award, however, is currently under protest). we also are leveraging our core capabilities to address adjacencies and create new opportunities. for example, we are supplying aireon, llc with 81 automatic dependent surveillance-broadcast ( ads-b ) receiver payloads that will be part of a satellite-based aircraft tracking system to enhance global air traffic control. the payloads will be hosted on the iridium next satellite constellation but provide a capability separate from the main mission of the constellation, and we are adding other customers and increasing the number of payloads. in fiscal 2014, we received a $63 million order for a new payload program on the iridium next satellite constellation, and in the first quarter of fiscal 2015, we were awarded a $495 million multi-vendor idiq contract from the u.s. air force for the hosted payload solutions ( hops ) program for commercial hosting capabilities for u.s. government payloads, which provides us a contract vehicle to pursue additional opportunities. defense market: we develop, supply and integrate communications and information processing products, systems and networks for a diverse base of aerospace, terrestrial and maritime applications supporting dod missions, and we are committed to delivering leading-edge technologies that support the ongoing transformations of military communications for u.s. and international customers. our technologies are providing advanced mobile wideband networking capabilities to assure timely and secure network-centric capabilities across strategic, operational and tactical boundaries in support of the dod full spectrum of warfighting, intelligence and logistics missions. our major technology capabilities include advanced ground control systems and satcom terminals for transportable ground, fixed-site and shipboard applications; flat-panel, phased-array and single-mission antennas; advanced aviation electronics for military jets, including digital maps, processors, sensors, data buses, fiber optics and microelectronics; and high-speed data links and data networks for wireless communications. we also develop and supply state-of-the-art wireless voice and data products and solutions. examples of ongoing programs for us in this market include the following: the u.s. army modernization of enterprise terminals ( met ) program, for which we are developing, under a ten-year contract awarded in fiscal 2009 with a potential value of $600 million, next-generation large satellite earth stations to provide the worldwide backbone for high-priority military communications and missile defense systems and to support ip and dedicated circuit connectivity within the global information grid, providing critical reach-back capability for the warfighter (and which has started full-rate production); and the f-35 joint strike fighter ( f-35 ) and f/a-18e/f super hornet ( f/a-18e/f ) aircraft platform programs, for which we provide high-performance, advanced avionics such as high-speed fiber optic networking and switching, intra-flight data links, image processing, digital map software and other electronic components, including multifunction advanced data link communications subsystems primarily intended for stealth platform air-to-air communications and which allow f-35s to communicate in a stealth fashion with other network nodes without revealing their positions. in fiscal 2014, we were awarded an 8-year, single-award idiq follow-on contract for $133 million for the u.s. navy commercial broadband satellite program, bringing total potential program value to more than $250 million; and a 5-year multi-vendor communication transmission systems idiq contract from the u.s. army to provide upgrades and maintenance of its terrestrial communications networks worldwide. 8 table of contents revenue, operating income and backlog: revenue for our government communications systems segment increased 1.0 percent to $1,801 million in fiscal 2014 compared with $1,784 million in fiscal 2013, and was $1,786 million in fiscal 2012. segment operating income increased 9.9 percent to $276.9 million in fiscal 2014 compared with $252.0 million in fiscal 2013, and was $253.3 million in fiscal 2012. the percentage of our revenue contributed by this segment was 36 percent in fiscal 2014 compared with 35 percent in fiscal 2013 and 33 percent in fiscal 2012. the percentages of this segment revenue under contracts directly with end customers and under contracts with prime contractors were approximately 74 percent and 26 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2014 compared with approximately 73 percent and 27 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2013 and 69 percent and 31 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2012. in fiscal 2014, this segment had a diverse portfolio of over 200 programs. some of this segment more significant programs in fiscal 2014 included fti, goes-r, f-35, met, wireless products, sgss, datacomm, hosted payloads and various classified programs. the percentages of this segment revenue in a particular fiscal year represented by this segment largest program by revenue in such fiscal year and ten largest programs by revenue in such fiscal year were approximately 14 percent and 53 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2014 compared with approximately 13 percent and 49 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2013 and 13 percent and 48 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2012. the percentage of this segment revenue that was derived from sales to u.s. government customers, including the dod and intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military sales funded through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, was approximately 93 percent in fiscal 2014 compared with approximately 93 percent in fiscal 2013 and 97 percent in fiscal 2012. for a general description of our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, including a discussion of revenue generated thereunder and of cost-reimbursable versus fixed-price contracts, see item 1. business principal customers; government contracts of this report. the funded backlog for this segment was $918 million at the end of fiscal 2014 compared with $948 million at the end of fiscal 2013 and $842 million at the end of fiscal 2012. unfunded backlog for this segment was $3,263 million at the end of fiscal 2014 compared with $2,492 million at the end of fiscal 2013 and $2,695 million at the end of fiscal 2012. additional information regarding funded and unfunded backlog is provided under item 1. business funded and unfunded backlog of this report. for a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, see item 1. business principal customers; government contracts, item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this report. international business revenue from products and services exported from the u.s. (including foreign military sales) or manufactured or rendered abroad was $1,482 million (30 percent of our revenue) in fiscal 2014 compared with $1,313 million (26 percent of our revenue) in fiscal 2013 and $1,330 million (24 percent of our revenue) in fiscal 2012. essentially all of our international sales are derived from our rf communications and integrated network solutions segments. direct export sales are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars, whereas sales from foreign subsidiaries are generally denominated in the local currency of the subsidiary. financial information regarding our domestic and international operations is contained in note 23: business segments in the notes and is incorporated herein by reference. the majority of our international marketing activities are conducted through subsidiaries which operate in canada, europe, the middle east, central and south america, africa and asia. we have also established international marketing organizations and several regional sales offices. for further information regarding our international subsidiaries, see exhibit 21 of this report. we utilize indirect sales channels, including dealers, distributors and sales representatives, in the marketing and sale of some lines of products and equipment, both domestically and internationally. these independent representatives may buy for resale or, in some cases, solicit orders from commercial or governmental customers for direct sales by us. prices to the ultimate customer in many instances may be recommended or established by the independent representative and may be above or below our list prices. our dealers and distributors generally receive a discount from our list prices and may mark up those prices in setting the final sales prices paid by the customer. the percentages of our total revenue and of our international revenue represented by revenue from indirect sales channels were approximately 13 percent and 40 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2014 compared with approximately 10 percent and 33 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2013 and 12 percent and 48 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2012. fiscal 2014 international revenue came from a large number of countries, and no such single country accounted for more than 3 percent of our total revenue. some of our exports are paid for by letters of credit, with the balance carried either on an open account or installment note basis. advance payments, progress payments or other similar payments received prior to or upon shipment often cover most of the related costs incurred. significant foreign government contracts generally require us to provide performance guarantees. in order to stay competitive in international markets, we also sometimes enter into offset agreements or recourse or vendor financing arrangements to facilitate sales to certain customers. 9 table of contents the particular economic, social and political conditions for business conducted outside the u.s. differ from those encountered by domestic businesses. our management believes that the overall business risk for our international business as a whole is somewhat greater than that faced by our domestic businesses as a whole. a description of the types of risks to which we are subject in our international business is contained in item 1a. risk factors of this report. nevertheless, in the opinion of our management, these risks are partially mitigated by the diversification of our international business and the protection provided by letters of credit and advance payments. competition we operate in highly competitive markets that are sensitive to technological advances. many of our competitors in each of our markets are larger than we are and can maintain higher levels of expenditures for research and development. in each of our markets, we concentrate on the opportunities that our management believes are compatible with our resources, overall technological capabilities and objectives. principal competitive factors in these markets are product quality and reliability; technological capabilities; service; past performance; ability to develop and implement complex, integrated solutions; ability to meet delivery schedules; the effectiveness of third-party sales channels in international markets; and cost-effectiveness. in the rf communications segment, principal competitors include airbus ds communications (formerly cassidian communications, an airbus group company), aselsan a.s., bharat electronics limited, elbit systems ltd., exelis inc., general dynamics corporation, jvc kenwood corporation, motorola solutions, inc., rockwell collins, inc., the rohde &amp; schwarz group, selex es (a finmeccanica group company), tait ltd. and thales group. in the integrated network solutions segment, principal competitors include astrium services government, inc. (an airbus group company), computer sciences corporation, engility holdings, inc., exelis inc., general dynamics corporation, leidos holdings, inc., lockheed martin corporation, mtn, northrop grumman corporation, raytheon company and rignet, inc. in the government communications systems segment, principal competitors include bae systems plc, the boeing company, exelis inc., general dynamics corporation, l-3 communications holdings, inc., lockheed martin corporation, northrop grumman corporation, raytheon company, and rockwell collins, inc. we frequently partner or are involved in subcontracting and teaming relationships with companies that are, from time to time, competitors on other programs. principal customers; government contracts the percentage of our revenue that was derived from sales to u.s. government customers, including the dod and intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military sales funded through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, was approximately 67 percent in fiscal 2014 compared with approximately 67 percent in fiscal 2013 and 70 percent in fiscal 2012. no other customer accounted for more than 4 percent of our revenue in fiscal 2014. additional information regarding customers for each of our segments is provided under item 1. business description of business by segment of this report. our u.s. government sales are predominantly derived from contracts with agencies of, and prime contractors to, the u.s. government. most of the sales in our government communications systems segment and with respect to u.s. government programs in our integrated network solutions segment are made directly or indirectly to the u.s. government under contracts or subcontracts containing standard government contract clauses providing for redetermination of profits, if applicable, and for termination for the convenience of the u.s. government or for default based on performance. our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts include both cost-reimbursable and fixed-price contracts. government-wide acquisition contracts ( gwacs ) and multi-vendor idiq contracts, which can include task orders for each contract type, require us to compete both for the initial contract and then for individual task or delivery orders under such contracts. our u.s. government cost-reimbursable contracts provide for the reimbursement of allowable costs plus payment of a fee and fall into three basic types: (i) cost-plus fixed-fee contracts, which provide for payment of a fixed fee irrespective of the final cost of performance; (ii) cost-plus incentive-fee contracts, which provide for payment of a fee that may increase or decrease, within specified limits, based on actual results compared with contractual targets relating to factors such as cost, performance and delivery schedule; and (iii) cost-plus award-fee contracts, which provide for payment of an award fee determined at the customer discretion based on our performance against pre-established performance criteria. under our u.s. government cost-reimbursable contracts, we are reimbursed periodically for allowable costs and are paid a portion of the fee based on contract progress. some overhead costs have been made partially or wholly unallowable for reimbursement by statute or regulation. examples are certain merger and acquisition costs, lobbying costs, charitable contributions and certain litigation defense costs. 10 table of contents our u.s. government fixed-price contracts are either firm fixed-price contracts or fixed-price incentive contracts. under our u.s. government firm fixed-price contracts, we agree to perform a specific scope of work for a fixed price and, as a result, benefit from cost savings and carry the burden of cost overruns. under our u.s. government fixed-price incentive contracts, we share with the u.s. government both savings accrued for performance at less than target cost as well as costs incurred in excess of target cost up to a negotiated ceiling price (which is higher than the target cost), but carry the entire burden of costs exceeding the negotiated ceiling price. accordingly, under such incentive contracts, profit may also be adjusted up or down depending on whether specified performance objectives are met. under our u.s. government firm fixed-price and fixed-price incentive contracts, we usually receive either milestone payments equaling 100 percent of the contract price or monthly progress payments from the u.s. government in amounts equaling 80 percent of costs incurred under the contract. the remaining amounts, including profits or incentive fees, are billed upon delivery and final acceptance of end items and deliverables under the contract. our production contracts are mainly fixed-price contracts, and development contracts are generally cost-reimbursable contracts. as stated above, u.s. government contracts are terminable for the convenience of the u.s. government, as well as for default based on performance. companies supplying goods and services to the u.s. government are dependent on congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of funds and may be affected by changes in u.s. government policies resulting from various military, political, economic and international developments. long-term u.s. government contracts and related orders are subject to cancellation if appropriations for subsequent performance periods become unavailable. under contracts terminable for the convenience of the u.s. government, a contractor is entitled to receive payments for its allowable costs and, in general, the proportionate share of fees or earnings for the work done. contracts that are terminable for default generally provide that the u.s. government pays only for the work it has accepted and may require the contractor to pay for the incremental cost of re-procurement and may hold the contractor liable for damages. in many cases, there is also uncertainty relating to the complexity of designs, necessity for design improvements and difficulty in forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work. under many u.s. government contracts, we are required to maintain facility and personnel security clearances complying with dod and other federal agency requirements. for further discussion of risks relating to u.s. government contracts, see item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this report. funded and unfunded backlog our total company-wide funded and unfunded backlog was approximately $7,202 million at the end of fiscal 2014 compared with approximately $6,789 million at the end of fiscal 2013 and $6,993 million at the end of fiscal 2012. the funded portion of this backlog was approximately $3,018 million at the end of fiscal 2014 compared with approximately $3,179 million at the end of fiscal 2013 and $3,056 million at the end of fiscal 2012. the determination of backlog involves substantial estimating, particularly with respect to customer requirements contracts and development and production contracts of a cost-reimbursable or incentive nature. we define funded backlog as unfilled firm orders for products and services for which funding has been authorized and, in the case of u.s. government agencies, appropriated. we define unfunded backlog as primarily unfilled firm contract value for which funding has not yet been authorized or, in the case of u.s. government agencies, appropriated, including the value of contract options in cases of material contracts that have options we believe are probable of being exercised, as well as the most probable value of material sole-source idiq contracts awarded for a specific limited purpose. in fiscal 2015, we expect to fill approximately 59 percent of our total funded backlog as of june 27, 2014. however, we can give no assurance of such fulfillment or that our funded backlog will become revenue in any particular period, if at all. backlog is subject to delivery delays and program cancellations, which are beyond our control. additional information with regard to the backlog of each of our segments is provided under item 1. business description of business by segment of this report. research and development research and development expenditures totaled approximately $865 million in fiscal 2014, $900 million in fiscal 2013 and $838 million in fiscal 2012. company-sponsored research and development costs, which included research and development for commercial products and services and independent research and development related to government products and services, as well as concept formulation studies and technology development that occurs on bid and proposal efforts, were approximately $264 million in fiscal 2014, $254 million in fiscal 2013 (including an approximately $18 million write-off of capitalized software in our integrated network solutions segment) and $219 million in fiscal 2012. a portion of our independent research and development costs are allocated among contracts and programs in process under u.s. government contractual arrangements. company-sponsored research and development costs not otherwise allocable are charged to expense when incurred. the portion of total research and 11 table of contents development expenditures that was not company-sponsored principally funded by the u.s. government and included in our revenue and cost of product sales and services was $601 million in fiscal 2014, $646 million in fiscal 2013 and $619 million in fiscal 2012. company-sponsored research is directed to the development of new products and services and to building technological capability in selected communications and electronic systems markets. u.s. government-funded research helps strengthen and broaden our technical capabilities. as of june 27, 2014, we employed approximately 6,000 engineers and scientists and are continuing efforts to make the technologies developed in any of our business segments available for all other business segments. patents and other intellectual property we consider our patents and other intellectual property, in the aggregate, to constitute an important asset. we own a large and valuable portfolio of patents, trade secrets, know-how, confidential information, trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property, and we routinely apply for new patents, trademarks and copyrights. we also license intellectual property to and from third parties. as of june 27, 2014, we held approximately 1,100 u.s. patents and 1,070 foreign patents, and had approximately 340 u.s. patent applications pending (and 640 foreign patent applications pending). unpatented research, development and engineering skills also make an important contribution to our business. although our intellectual property rights in the aggregate are important to our business and the operations of our business segments, we do not consider our business or any business segment to be materially dependent on any single patent, license or other intellectual property right, or any group of related patents, licenses or other intellectual property rights. we are engaged in a proactive patent licensing program and have entered into a number of licenses and cross-license agreements, some of which generate royalty income. although existing license agreements have generated income in past years and may do so in the future, there can be no assurances we will enter into additional income-producing license agreements. from time to time we engage in litigation to protect our patents and other intellectual property. any of our patents, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights and other proprietary rights could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or may not provide competitive advantages. for further discussion of risks relating to intellectual property, see item 1a. risk factors of this report. with regard to certain patents relating to our government communications systems and rf communications segments, the u.s. government has an irrevocable, non-exclusive, royalty-free license, pursuant to which the u.s. government may use or authorize others to use the inventions covered by such patents. pursuant to similar arrangements, the u.s. government may consent to our use of inventions covered by patents owned by other persons. numerous trademarks used on or in connection with our products are also considered to be a valuable asset. environmental and other regulations our facilities and operations are subject to numerous domestic and international laws and regulations designed to protect the environment, particularly with regard to wastes and emissions. the applicable environmental laws and regulations are common within the industries and markets in which we operate and serve. we believe that we have complied with these requirements and that such compliance has not had a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. based on currently available information, we do not expect expenditures over the next several years to protect the environment and to comply with current environmental laws and regulations, as well as to comply with current and pending climate control legislation, regulation, treaties and accords, to have a material impact on our competitive position or financial condition, but we can give no assurance that such expenditures will not exceed current expectations. if future treaties, laws and regulations contain more stringent requirements than presently anticipated, actual expenditures may be higher than our present estimates of those expenditures. we have installed waste treatment facilities and pollution control equipment to satisfy legal requirements and to achieve our waste minimization and prevention goals. we did not spend material amounts on environmental capital projects in fiscal 2014, fiscal 2013 or fiscal 2012. a portion of our environmental expenditures relates to historic discontinued operations (other than cis and broadcast communications) for which we have retained certain environmental liabilities. we currently expect that amounts to be spent for environmental-related capital projects will not be material in fiscal 2015. these amounts may increase in future years. additional information regarding environmental and regulatory matters is set forth in item 3. legal proceedings of this report and in note 1: significant accounting policies in the notes. electronic products are subject to governmental environmental regulation in a number of jurisdictions, such as domestic and international requirements requiring end-of-life management and/or restricting materials in products delivered to customers, including the european union directive 2002/96/ec on waste electrical and electronic equipment and directive 2002/95/ec on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment ( rohs ), as amended. other jurisdictions have adopted similar legislation. such requirements typically are not applicable to most equipment produced by our government communications systems and rf communications segments. we believe that we have complied with such rules and regulations, where applicable, with respect to our existing products sold into such jurisdictions. we intend to comply with such rules and regulations with respect to our future products. 12 table of contents wireless communications (whether radio, satellite or telecommunications) are also subject to governmental regulation. equipment produced in our rf communications and integrated network solutions segments, in particular, is subject to domestic and international requirements to avoid interference among users of radio and television frequencies and to permit interconnection of telecommunications equipment. additionally, we hold licenses for our managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions market for very small aperture terminals and satellite earth stations, which authorize operation of networks and teleports. we are also required to comply with technical operating and licensing requirements that pertain to our wireless licenses and operations. we believe that we have complied with such rules and regulations and licenses with respect to our existing products and services, and we intend to comply with such rules and regulations and licenses with respect to our future products and services. governmental reallocation of the frequency spectrum also could impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. raw materials and supplies because of the diversity of our products and services, as well as the wide geographic dispersion of our facilities, we use numerous sources for the wide array of raw materials (such as electronic components, printed circuit boards, metals and plastics) needed for our operations and for our products. we are dependent on suppliers and subcontractors for a large number of components and subsystems and the ability of our suppliers and subcontractors to adhere to customer or regulatory materials restrictions and to meet performance and quality specifications and delivery schedules. in some instances, we are dependent on one or a few sources, either because of the specialized nature of a particular item or because of local content preference requirements pursuant to which we operate on a given project. although we have been affected by financial and performance issues of some of our suppliers and subcontractors, we have not been materially adversely affected by the inability to obtain raw materials or products. on occasion, we have experienced component shortages from vendors as a result of natural disasters, or the rohs environmental regulations in the european union or similar regulations in other jurisdictions. these events or regulations may cause a spike in demand for certain electronic components (such as lead-free components), resulting in industry-wide supply chain shortages. to date, these component shortages have not had a material adverse effect on our business. for further discussion of risks relating to subcontractors and suppliers, see item 1a. risk factors of this report. seasonality we do not consider any material portion of our business to be seasonal. various factors can affect the distribution of our revenue between accounting periods, including the timing of contract awards and the timing and availability of u.s. government funding, as well as the timing of product deliveries and customer acceptance. employees we had approximately 14,000 employees at the end of fiscal 2014. approximately 91 percent of our employees as of the end of fiscal 2014 were located in the u.s. a significant number of our employees possess a u.s. government security clearance. we also utilize a number of independent contractors. none of our employees in the u.s. is represented by a labor union. in certain international subsidiaries, our employees are represented by workers councils or statutory labor unions. in general, we believe that our relations with our employees are good. website access to harris reports; available information general. we maintain an internet website at http://harris.com . our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to such reports, filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act, are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the securities and exchange commission (the sec ). we also will provide the reports in electronic or paper form free of charge upon request. we also make available free of charge on our website our annual report to shareholders and proxy statement. our website and the information posted thereon are not incorporated into this report or any current or other periodic report that we file with or furnish to the sec. all reports we file with or furnish to the sec also are available free of charge via the sec electronic data gathering and retrieval, or edgar, system available through the sec website at http://www.sec.gov. additional information relating to our business, including our business segments, is set forth in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report. corporate governance guidelines and committee charters. we previously adopted corporate governance guidelines, which are available on the corporate governance section of our website at http://harris.com/corporate_governance/ . in addition, the charters of each of the standing committees of our board, namely, the audit committee, business conduct and corporate responsibility committee, corporate governance committee, finance committee and management development and compensation committee, are also available on the corporate governance section of our website. a copy of the charters is also available free of charge upon written request to our secretary at harris corporation, 1025 west nasa boulevard, melbourne, florida 32919. 13 table of contents certifications. we have filed with the sec the certifications required by section 302 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 as exhibits to this report. in addition, an annual ceo certification was submitted by our chief executive officer to the new york stock exchange ( nyse ) in october 2013 in accordance with the nyse listing standards, which included a certification that he was not aware of any violation by harris of the nyse corporate governance listing standards. item 1a. risk factors. we have described many of the trends and other factors that we believe could impact our business and future results in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report. in addition, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are subject to, and could be materially adversely affected by, various risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, those set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or our anticipated future results. we depend on u.s. government customers for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of these relationships, a reduction in u.s. government funding or a change in u.s. government spending priorities could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are highly dependent on sales to u.s. government customers. the percentage of our revenue that was derived from sales to u.s. government customers, including the dod and intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military sales funded through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, was approximately 67 percent in fiscal 2014, 67 percent in fiscal 2013 and 70 percent in fiscal 2012. therefore, any significant disruption or deterioration of our relationship with the u.s. government would significantly reduce our revenue. our competitors continuously engage in efforts to expand their business relationships with the u.s. government and will continue these efforts in the future, and the u.s. government may choose to use other contractors. we expect that a majority of the business that we seek will be awarded through competitive bidding. the u.s. government has increasingly relied on certain types of contracts that are subject to multiple competitive bidding processes, including multi-vendor idiq, gwac, general services administration schedule and other multi-award contracts, which has resulted in greater competition and increased pricing pressure. we operate in highly competitive markets and our competitors may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do in some areas, and we may not be able to continue to win competitively awarded contracts or to obtain task orders under multi-award contracts. further, the competitive bidding process involves significant cost and managerial time to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us, as well as the risk that we may fail to accurately estimate the resources and costs required to fulfill any contract awarded to us. following any contract award, we may experience significant expense or delay, contract modification or contract rescission as a result of our competitors protesting or challenging contracts awarded to us in competitive bidding. our u.s. government programs must compete with programs managed by other government contractors and with other policy imperatives for consideration for limited resources and for uncertain levels of funding during the budget and appropriation process. budget and appropriations decisions made by the u.s. government are outside of our control and have long-term consequences for our business. u.s. government spending priorities and levels remain uncertain and difficult to predict and are affected by numerous factors, including sequestration (automatic, across-the-board u.s. government budgetary spending cuts) and whether it will be superseded by alternate arrangements. a change in u.s. government spending priorities or an increase in non-procurement spending at the expense of our programs, or a reduction in total u.s. government spending, could have material adverse consequences on our future business. for more information regarding sequestration, see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations business considerations industry-wide opportunities, challenges and risks of this report. we depend significantly on u.s. government contracts, which often are only partially funded, subject to immediate termination, and heavily regulated and audited. the termination or failure to fund, or negative audit findings for, one or more of these contracts could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. over its lifetime, a u.s. government program may be implemented by the award of many different individual contracts and subcontracts. the funding of u.s. government programs is subject to congressional appropriations. although multi-year contracts may be authorized and appropriated in connection with major procurements, congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis. procurement funds are typically made available for obligation over the course of one to three years. consequently, programs often receive only partial funding initially, and additional funds are obligated only as congress authorizes further appropriations. the termination of funding for a u.s. government program would result in a loss of anticipated future revenue attributable to that program, which could have an adverse impact on our operations. in addition, the termination of a program or the failure to commit additional funds to a program that already has been started could result in lost revenue and increase our overall costs of doing business. 14 table of contents generally, u.s. government contracts are subject to oversight audits by u.s. government representatives. such audits could result in adjustments to our contract costs. any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, and such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. we have recorded contract revenues based on costs we expect to realize upon final audit. however, we do not know the outcome of any future audits and adjustments, and we may be required to materially reduce our revenues or profits upon completion and final negotiation of audits. negative audit findings could also result in termination of a contract, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or debarment from u.s. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. in addition, u.s. government contracts generally contain provisions permitting termination, in whole or in part, without prior notice at the u.s. government convenience upon the payment only for work done and commitments made at the time of termination. we can give no assurance that one or more of our u.s. government contracts will not be terminated under these circumstances. also, we can give no assurance that we would be able to procure new contracts to offset the revenue or backlog lost as a result of any termination of our u.s. government contracts. because a significant portion of our revenue is dependent on our performance and payment under our u.s. government contracts, the loss of one or more large contracts could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our government business also is subject to specific procurement regulations and a variety of socio-economic and other requirements. these requirements, although customary in u.s. government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. these costs might increase in the future, thereby reducing our margins, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could lead to fines, penalties, repayments, or compensatory or treble damages, or suspension or debarment from u.s. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. among the causes for debarment are violations of various laws, including those related to procurement integrity, export control, u.s. government security regulations, employment practices, protection of the environment, accuracy of records, proper recording of costs and foreign corruption. the termination of a u.s. government contract or relationship as a result of any of these acts would have an adverse impact on our operations and could have an adverse effect on our standing and eligibility for future u.s. government contracts. we could be negatively impacted by a security breach, through cyber attack, cyber intrusion or otherwise, or other significant disruption of our it networks and related systems or of those we operate for certain of our customers. we face the risk, as does any company, of a security breach, whether through cyber attack or cyber intrusion over the internet, malware, computer viruses, attachments to e-mails, persons inside our organization or persons with access to systems inside our organization, or other significant disruption of our it networks and related systems. we face an added risk of a security breach or other significant disruption of the it networks and related systems that we develop, install, operate and maintain for certain of our customers, which may involve managing and protecting information relating to national security and other sensitive government functions or personally identifiable or protected health information. the risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. as a communications and it company, and particularly as a government contractor, we face a heightened risk of a security breach or disruption from threats to gain unauthorized access to our and our customers proprietary or classified information on our it networks and related systems and to the it networks and related systems that we operate and maintain for certain of our customers. these types of information and it networks and related systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day-to-day operations, and, in some cases, are critical to the operations of certain of our customers. although we make significant efforts to maintain the security and integrity of these types of information and it networks and related systems, and we have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption, there can be no assurance that our security efforts and measures will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging. even the most well protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because attempted security breaches, particularly cyber attacks and intrusions, or disruptions will occur in the future, and because the techniques used in such attempts are constantly evolving and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed not be detected and, in fact, may not be detected. in some cases, the resources of foreign governments may be behind such attacks. accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures, and thus it is virtually impossible for us to entirely mitigate this risk. a security breach or other significant disruption involving these types of information and it networks and related systems could: disrupt the proper functioning of these networks and systems and therefore our operations and/or those of certain of our customers; 15 table of contents result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of, proprietary, confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable information of ours or our customers, including trade secrets, which others could use to compete against us or for disruptive, destructive or otherwise harmful purposes and outcomes; compromise national security and other sensitive government functions; require significant management attention and resources to remedy the damages that result; subject us to claims for contract breach, damages, credits, penalties or termination; and damage our reputation with our customers (particularly agencies of the u.s. government) and the public generally. any or all of the foregoing could have a negative impact on our business, financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows. we enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses in the event of cost overruns or a significant increase in inflation. we have a number of fixed-price contracts, which allow us to benefit from cost savings, but subject us to the risk of potential cost overruns, particularly for firm fixed-price contracts because we assume all of the cost burden. if our initial estimates are incorrect, we can lose money on these contracts. u.s. government contracts can expose us to potentially large losses because the u.s. government can hold us responsible for completing a project or, in certain circumstances, paying the entire cost of its replacement by another provider regardless of the size or foreseeability of any cost overruns that occur over the life of the contract. because many of these contracts involve new technologies and applications and can last for years, unforeseen events, such as technological difficulties, fluctuations in the price of raw materials, problems with our suppliers and cost overruns, can result in the contractual price becoming less favorable or even unprofitable to us over time. the u.s. and other countries also may experience a significant increase in inflation. a significant increase in inflation rates could have a significant adverse impact on the profitability of these contracts. furthermore, if we do not meet contract deadlines or specifications, we may need to renegotiate contracts on less favorable terms, be forced to pay penalties or liquidated damages or suffer major losses if the customer exercises its right to terminate. in addition, some of our contracts have provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights, and if we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts we may not realize their full benefits. our results of operations are dependent on our ability to maximize our earnings from our contracts. cost overruns could have an adverse impact on our financial results. the potential impact of such risk on our financial results would increase if the mix of our contracts and programs shifted toward a greater percentage of fixed-price contracts, particularly firm fixed-price contracts. we derive a significant portion of our revenue from international operations and are subject to the risks of doing business internationally, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates. we are dependent on sales to customers outside the u.s. the percentage of our total revenue represented by revenue from products and services exported from the u.s. (including foreign military sales) or manufactured or rendered abroad was 30 percent in fiscal 2014, 26 percent in fiscal 2013 and 24 percent in fiscal 2012. approximately 28 percent of our international business in fiscal 2014 was transacted in local currency. losses resulting from currency rate fluctuations can adversely affect our results. we expect that international revenue will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue. also, a significant portion of our international revenue is from, and an increasing portion of our business activity is being conducted in, less-developed countries. we are subject to risks of doing business internationally, including: currency exchange controls, fluctuations of currency and currency revaluations; the laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments relating to investments and operations, as well as u.s. laws affecting the activities of u.s. companies abroad, including the foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ); changes in regulatory requirements, including business or operating license requirements, imposition of tariffs or embargoes, export controls and other trade restrictions; uncertainties and restrictions concerning the availability of funding, credit or guarantees; the complexity and necessity of using, and disruptions involving our, international dealers, distributors, sales representatives and consultants; the difficulties of managing a geographically dispersed organization and culturally diverse workforces, including compliance with local laws and practices; difficulties associated with repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner and changes in tax laws; import and export licensing requirements and regulations, as well as unforeseen changes in export regulations; uncertainties as to local laws and enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights and occasional requirements for onerous contract clauses; and 16 table of contents rapid changes in government, economic and political policies, political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of international boycotts or u.s. anti-boycott legislation. our reputation and ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of our employees, agents or business partners. we have implemented compliance controls, policies and procedures designed to prevent reckless or criminal acts from being committed by our employees, agents or business partners that would violate the laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including laws governing payments to government officials (such as the fcpa), and to detect any such reckless or criminal acts committed. we cannot ensure, however, that our controls, policies and procedures will prevent or detect all such reckless or criminal acts. if not prevented, such reckless or criminal acts could subject us to civil or criminal investigations and monetary and non-monetary penalties and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct business, our results of operations and our reputation. we may not be successful in obtaining the necessary export licenses to conduct certain operations abroad, and congress may prevent proposed sales to certain foreign governments. we must first obtain export and other licenses and authorizations from various u.s. government agencies before we are permitted to sell certain products and technologies outside of the u.s. for example, the u.s. department of state must notify congress at least 15 to 60 days, depending on the size and location of the proposed sale, prior to authorizing certain sales of defense equipment and services to foreign governments. during that time, congress may take action to block the proposed sale. we can give no assurance that we will continue to be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses or authorizations or that congress will not prevent or delay certain sales. any significant impairment of our ability to sell products or technologies outside of the u.s. could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the continued effects of the general weakness in the global economy and the u.s. government budget deficits and national debt and sequestration could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the economies of the u.s. and many foreign countries in which we do business continue to show weakness or limited improvement. we are unable to predict the impact, severity and duration of these economic events. the continued effects of these economic events and the u.s. government budget deficits and national debt and sequestration could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in a number of ways. possible effects of these economic conditions include the following: the u.s. government could reduce or delay its spending on, or reprioritize its spending away from, the government programs in which we participate; the u.s. government may be unable to complete its budget process before the end of its fiscal year on september 30 and thus would be required either to shut down or be funded pursuant to a continuing resolution that authorizes agencies of the u.s. government to continue operations but does not authorize new spending initiatives, either of which could result in reduced or delayed orders or payments for products and services we provide. if the u.s. government budget process results in a shutdown or prolonged operation under a continuing resolution, it may decrease our revenue, profitability or cash flows or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations; u.s. government spending could be impacted by sequestration or alternate arrangements, which increases the uncertainty as to, and the difficulty in predicting, u.s. government spending priorities and levels; we may experience declines in revenue, profitability and cash flows as a result of reduced or delayed orders or payments or other factors caused by the economic problems of our customers and prospective customers (including u.s. federal, state and local governments); we may experience supply chain delays, disruptions or other problems associated with financial constraints faced by our suppliers and subcontractors; and we may incur increased costs or experience difficulty with future borrowings under our commercial paper program or credit facilities or in the debt markets, or otherwise with financing our operating, investing (including any future acquisitions) or financing activities. our future success will depend on our ability to develop new products, systems, services and technologies that achieve market acceptance in our current and future markets. both our commercial and government businesses are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry standards. accordingly, our performance depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: identify emerging technological trends in our current and target markets; 17 table of contents develop and maintain competitive products, systems, services and technologies; enhance our offerings by adding innovative hardware, software or other features that differentiate our products, systems, services and technologies from those of our competitors; and develop, manufacture and bring to market cost-effective offerings quickly. we believe that, in order to remain competitive in the future, we will need to continue to develop new products, systems, services and technologies, requiring the investment of significant financial resources. the need to make these expenditures could divert our attention and resources from other projects, and we cannot be sure that these expenditures ultimately will lead to the timely development of new products, systems, services or technologies. due to the design complexity of some of our products, systems, services and technologies, we may experience delays in completing development and introducing new products, systems, services or technologies in the future. any delays could result in increased costs of development or redirect resources from other projects. in addition, we cannot provide assurances that the markets for our products, systems, services or technologies will develop as we currently anticipate. the failure of our products, systems, services or technologies to gain market acceptance could significantly reduce our revenue and harm our business. furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing products, systems, services or technologies that gain market acceptance in advance of our products, systems, services or technologies, or that our competitors will not develop new products, systems, services or technologies that cause our existing products, systems, services or technologies to become non-competitive or obsolete, which could adversely affect our results of operations. the future direction of the domestic and global economies, including its impact on customer demand, also will have a significant impact on our overall performance. we participate in markets that are often subject to uncertain economic conditions, which makes it difficult to estimate growth in our markets and, as a result, future income and expenditures. we participate in u.s. and international markets that are subject to uncertain economic conditions. in particular, u.s. government spending priorities and levels remain uncertain and difficult to predict and are affected by numerous factors, including sequestration and whether it will be superseded by alternate arrangements. as a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth in the markets in which we participate. because all components of our budgeting and forecasting are dependent on estimates of growth in the markets we serve, the uncertainty renders estimates of or guidance relating to future revenue, income and expenditures even more difficult. as a result, we may make significant investments and expenditures but never realize the anticipated benefits. we cannot predict the consequences of future geo-political events, but they may adversely affect the markets in which we operate, our ability to insure against risks, our operations or our profitability. ongoing instability and current conflicts in global markets, including in the middle east and asia, and the potential for other conflicts and future terrorist activities and other recent geo-political events throughout the world have created economic and political uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and profitability. these matters cause uncertainty in the world financial and insurance markets and may significantly increase the political, economic and social instability in the geographic areas in which we operate. these matters also may cause our insurance coverages and performance bonds to increase in cost, or in some cases, to be unavailable altogether. we have made, and may continue to make, strategic acquisitions and divestitures that involve significant risks and uncertainties. strategic acquisitions and divestitures that we have made in the past, and may continue to make, present significant risks and uncertainties, which include: difficulty in identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions, including the risk that our due diligence does not identify or fully assess valuation issues, potential liabilities or other acquisition risks; difficulty in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations, including combining product and service offerings, and in entering into new markets in which we are not experienced, in an efficient and cost-effective manner while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures, and the risk that we encounter significant unanticipated costs or other problems associated with integration; difficulty in consolidating and rationalizing it infrastructure, which may include multiple legacy systems from various acquisitions and integrating software code; challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits expected from acquisitions; risk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the strategic acquisitions and divestitures do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; risk that we assume significant liabilities that exceed the limitations of any applicable indemnification provisions or the financial resources of any indemnifying parties; potential loss of key employees or customers of the businesses acquired or to be divested; 18 table of contents risk that we are not able to complete strategic divestitures on satisfactory terms and conditions or within expected timeframes; and risk of diverting the attention of senior management from our existing operations. disputes with our subcontractors and the inability of our subcontractors to perform, or our key suppliers to timely deliver our components, parts or services, could cause our products or services to be produced or delivered in an untimely or unsatisfactory manner. we engage subcontractors on many of our contracts. we may have disputes with our subcontractors, including regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor, customer concerns about the subcontract, our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders under a subcontract, our hiring of the personnel of a subcontractor or vice versa or the subcontractor failure to comply with applicable law. in addition, there are certain parts, components and services for many of our products and services which we source from other manufacturers or vendors. some of our suppliers, from time to time, experience financial and operational difficulties, which may impact their ability to supply the materials, components, subsystems and services that we require. our supply chain could also be disrupted by external events, such as natural disasters or other significant disruptions (including extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics, acts of terrorism, cyber attacks and labor disputes), governmental actions and legislative or regulatory changes (including product certification or stewardship requirements, sourcing restrictions, product authenticity and climate change or greenhouse gas emission standards). any inability to develop alternative sources of supply on a cost-effective and timely basis could materially impair our ability to manufacture and deliver products and services to our customers. we can give no assurances that we will be free from disputes with our subcontractors, material supply problems or component, subsystems or services problems in the future. also, our subcontractors and other suppliers may not be able to acquire or maintain the quality of the materials, components, subsystems and services they supply, which might result in greater product returns, service problems and warranty claims and could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. third parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their intellectual property rights, and third parties may infringe upon our intellectual property rights. many of the markets we serve are characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights, which often has resulted in protracted and expensive litigation. third parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing or to have infringed directly or indirectly upon those intellectual property rights. claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. moreover, we may not be able to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us, or at all. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain of our products, services and solutions. our success depends in large part on our proprietary technology. we rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, know-how, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. if we fail to successfully protect and enforce these rights, our competitive position could suffer. our pending patent and trademark registration applications may not be allowed, or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents or trademark registrations. in addition, our patents may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and police our intellectual property rights. we may not be able to detect infringement and our competitive position may be harmed before we do so. in addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. the outcome of litigation or arbitration in which we are involved is unpredictable and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. from time to time, we are defendants in a number of litigation matters and are involved in a number of arbitrations. these actions may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. no assurances can be given that the results of these or new matters will be favorable to us. an adverse resolution of lawsuits or arbitrations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we face certain significant risk exposures and potential liabilities that may not be covered adequately by insurance or indemnity. we are exposed to liabilities that are unique to the products and services we provide. a significant portion of our business relates to designing, developing and manufacturing advanced defense, technology and communications systems and products. new technologies associated with these systems and products may be untested or unproven. components of certain of the defense systems and products we develop are inherently dangerous. failures of satellites, missile systems, air traffic control systems, homeland security applications and aircraft have the potential to cause loss of life and extensive property damage. in most circumstances, we may receive indemnification from the 19 table of contents u.s. government. while we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, and we may be forced to bear substantial costs from an accident or incident. it also is not possible for us to obtain insurance to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. substantial claims resulting from an incident in excess of u.s. government indemnity and our insurance coverage would harm our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. moreover, any accident or incident for which we are liable, even if fully insured, could negatively affect our standing with our customers and the public, thereby making it more difficult for us to compete effectively, and could significantly impact the cost and availability of adequate insurance in the future. changes in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. our future effective tax rate may be adversely affected by a number of factors including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not fully deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairment of goodwill or other long-term assets in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation expense; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; changes in domestic or international tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws; and the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact our results of operations for future periods. we have significant operations in locations that could be materially and adversely impacted in the event of a natural disaster or other significant disruption. our corporate headquarters and significant operations of our government communications systems segment are located in florida and significant operations of our integrated network solutions segment are located in houston, texas, which areas are subject to the risk of major hurricanes. our worldwide operations and operations of our suppliers could be subject to natural disasters or other significant disruptions, including hurricanes, typhoons, tsunamis, floods, earthquakes, fires, water shortages, other extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics, acts of terrorism, power shortages and blackouts, telecommunications failures, cyber attacks and other natural and manmade disasters or disruptions. in the event of such a natural disaster or other disruption, we could experience disruptions or interruptions to our operations or the operations of our suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers or customers; destruction of facilities; and/or loss of life, all of which could materially increase our costs and expenses and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. changes in the regulatory framework under which our managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions operations are operated could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our domestic satellite and terrestrial communications solutions are currently provided on a private carrier basis and are therefore subject to a lesser degree of regulation by the federal communications commission and other federal, state and local agencies than if provided on a common carrier basis. our international satellite and terrestrial communications solutions operations are regulated by governments of various countries other than the u.s. and by other international authorities. the regulatory regimes applicable to our international satellite and terrestrial communications solutions operations frequently require that we obtain and maintain licenses for our operations and conduct our operations in accordance with prescribed standards. compliance with such requirements may inhibit our ability to quickly expand our operations into new countries, including in circumstances in which such expansion is required in order to provide uninterrupted service to existing customers with mobile operations as they move to new locations on short notice. failure to comply with such regulatory requirements could subject us to various penalties or sanctions. the adoption of new laws or regulations, changes to the existing domestic or international regulatory framework, new interpretations of the laws that apply to our operations, or the loss of, or a material limitation on, any of our material licenses could materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we rely on third parties to provide satellite bandwidth for our managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions, and any bandwidth constraints could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in our managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions operations, we compete for satellite bandwidth with other commercial entities, such as other satellite communications services providers and broadcasting companies, and with governmental entities, such as the military. in certain markets and at certain times, satellite bandwidth may be 20 table of contents limited and/or pricing of satellite bandwidth could be subject to competitive pressure. in such cases, we may be unable to secure sufficient bandwidth needed to provide our managed satellite communications services, either at favorable rates or at all. this inability could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. changes in future business or other market conditions could cause business investments and/or recorded goodwill or other long-term assets to become impaired, resulting in substantial losses and write-downs that would adversely affect our results of operations. as part of our overall strategy, we will, from time to time, acquire a minority or majority interest in a business. these investments are made upon careful analysis and due diligence procedures designed to achieve a desired return or strategic objective. these procedures often involve certain assumptions and judgment in determining acquisition price. after acquisition, unforeseen issues could arise which adversely affect the anticipated returns or which are otherwise not recoverable as an adjustment to the purchase price. even after careful integration efforts, actual operating results may vary significantly from initial estimates. goodwill accounted for approximately 35 percent of our recorded total assets as of june 27, 2014. we evaluate the recoverability of recorded goodwill annually, as well as when we change reportable segments and when events or circumstances indicate there may be an impairment. the annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. principally, a decrease in expected reportable segment cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill. for additional information on accounting policies we have in place for impairment of goodwill, see our discussion under critical accounting policies and estimates in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report and note 1: significant accounting policies and note 3: discontinued operations in the notes. we must attract and retain key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. our business has a continuing need to attract and retain significant numbers of skilled personnel, including personnel holding security clearances, to support our growth and to replace individuals whose employment has terminated due to retirement or for other reasons. to the extent that the demand for qualified personnel exceeds supply, as has been the case from time to time in recent years, we could experience higher labor, recruiting or training costs in order to attract and retain such employees, or could experience difficulties in performing under our contracts if our needs for such employees were unmet. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 50 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of doing business, we are exposed to the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rates and changes in interest rates. we employ established policies and procedures governing the use of financial instruments to manage our exposure to such risks. for a discussion of such policies and procedures and the related risks, see financial risk management in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report, which is incorporated by reference into this item 7a. 50 table of contentsrisk factors 17 risk factors of this report. all forward-looking statements are qualified by, and should be read in conjunction with, those risk factors. forward-looking statements are made in reliance on the safe harbor provisions of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended (the securities act ), and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the exchange act ), and are made as of the date of filing of this report, and we disclaim any intention or obligation, other than imposed by law, to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or developments or otherwise, after the date of filing of this report or, in the case of any document incorporated by reference, the date of that document. part i item 1. business. harris harris corporation, together with its subsidiaries, provides advanced, technology-based solutions that solve government and commercial customers mission-critical challenges. as of the end of fiscal 2015, we had approximately 22,300 employees including approximately 9,200 engineers and scientists supporting customers in more than 125 countries. our largest customers are u.s. government customers and their prime contractors. harris corporation was incorporated in delaware in 1926 as the successor to three companies founded in the 1890s. our principal executive offices are located at 1025 west nasa boulevard, melbourne, florida 32919, and our telephone number is (321) 727-9100. our common stock is listed on the new york stock exchange under the symbol hrs. unless the context otherwise requires, the terms we, our, us, company and harris as used in this report refer to harris corporation and its subsidiaries. general we structure our operations primarily around the products and services we sell and the markets we serve, and for fiscal 2015 we reported the financial results of our continuing operations in the following four business segments: rf communications, serving (i) u.s. department of defense and international tactical communications and (ii) public safety and professional communications markets; government communications systems, serving (i) civil, (ii) national intelligence and (iii) defense markets; integrated network solutions, serving (i) it services and (ii) managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions markets, and which also served the commercial healthcare solutions market until july 1, 2015, when we completed the divestiture of our commercial healthcare solutions operation ( hcs ); and exelis, which segment results from our acquisition of exelis inc. and its subsidiaries on may 29, 2015, provides positioning and navigation, sensors, air traffic management solutions, image processing and distribution, communications and information systems. on july 1, 2015, we announced that effective for fiscal 2016 (which began july 4, 2015), our segment reporting would be adjusted to reflect our new organizational structure. our segment reporting for fiscal 2016 will consist of the following four business segments: (1) communication systems, serving markets in tactical and airborne radios, night vision technology, and defense and public safety networks; (2) critical networks, providing managed services supporting air traffic management, energy and maritime communications, and ground network operation and 1 table of contents sustainment, as well as high-value information technology ( it ) and engineering services; (3) electronic systems, offering an extensive portfolio of solutions in electronic warfare, avionics, wireless technology, command, control, communications, computers and intelligence ( c4i ), undersea systems and aerostructures; and (4) space and intelligence systems, providing complete earth observation, weather, geospatial, space protection, and intelligence solutions from advanced sensors and payloads, as well as ground processing and information analytics. these adjustments to our segment reporting take effect in fiscal 2016 and therefore do not affect the historical results, discussion or presentation of our business segments as set forth in this annual report on form 10-k. we will begin to report our financial results consistent with this new segment reporting structure beginning with the first quarter of fiscal 2016. at the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal 2014, to leverage the breadth of our it enterprise network and information assurance capabilities for the it services market, we began managing our cyber security network testing operation as part of our integrated network solutions segment rather than our government communications systems segment. as a result, we reassigned $2 million of goodwill (determined on a relative fair value basis) to our integrated network solutions segment from our government communications systems segment. the historical results, discussion and presentation of our business segments as set forth in this report have been adjusted to reflect the impact of this change to our business segment reporting structure for all periods presented in this report. in the third quarter of fiscal 2012, our board of directors approved a plan to exit our cyber integrated solutions operation ( cis ), which provided remote cloud hosting, and to dispose of the related assets, and we completed the sale of the remaining assets of cis in the first quarter of fiscal 2014. in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, our board of directors approved a plan to divest our broadcast communications operation ( broadcast communications ), which provided digital media management solutions in support of broadcast customers, and we completed the sale of broadcast communications in the third quarter of fiscal 2013. both cis and broadcast communications were formerly part of our integrated network solutions segment. for additional information regarding discontinued operations, see note 3: discontinued operations in the notes to consolidated financial statements in this report (the notes ). except for disclosures related to our cash flows, or unless otherwise specified, disclosures in this report relate solely to our continuing operations. financial information with respect to all of our other activities, including corporate costs not allocated to our business segments or discontinued operations, is reported as part of the unallocated corporate expense or non-operating income (loss) line items in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. financial information about our business segments financial information with respect to our business segments, including revenue, operating income or loss and total assets, and with respect to our operations outside the united states, is contained in note 24: business segments in the notes and is incorporated herein by reference. recent acquisitions and divestitures acquisition of exelis inc. on may 29, 2015, we acquired publicly held exelis inc. (collectively with its subsidiaries, exelis ), a diversified, top-tier global aerospace, defense, information and services company that leverages its deep customer knowledge and technical expertise to deliver affordable, mission-critical solutions to military, government and commercial customers in the united states and globally. exelis is a leader in positioning and navigation, sensors, air traffic management solutions, image processing and distribution, communications and information systems; and focused on strategic growth in the areas of critical networks, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance ( isr ) and analytics, electronic warfare and composite aerostructures. each outstanding share of exelis common stock converted into the right to receive $16.625 in cash and 0.1025 of a share of harris common stock. legacy harris shareholders own 84 percent of the combined company and legacy exelis shareholders own 16 percent. based on the closing price of $79.22 per share of harris common stock on the new york stock exchange on may 29, 2015, the date of the closing of the acquisition, the aggregate implied value of the consideration paid to former holders of exelis common stock in connection with the acquisition was approximately $4.7 billion, including approximately $1.5 billion in harris common stock and approximately $3.2 billion in cash (including cash paid in respect of share-based awards and net of cash acquired). the source of funds for such cash payment was cash on hand and third-party debt financing, including a combination of borrowings under our new senior unsecured term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $1.3 billion and a portion of the proceeds from our issuance of new debt securities in an aggregate principal amount of $2.4 billion. our acquisition of exelis creates significantly greater scale, bringing together two engineering-driven companies and workforces with similar cultures that value technology leadership. together, the two companies complementary technologies and capabilities strengthen core franchises and provide new opportunities for innovation to solve our customers most complex challenges. exelis had annual sales of 2 table of contents $3.277 billion in calendar 2014. our consolidated financial statements in this report include exelis results of operations from may 29, 2015 through july 3, 2015. for segment reporting purposes exelis has been identified as a separate segment. for additional information related to the acquisition of exelis and reporting segments see note 4: business combinations and note 24: business segments in the notes. divestiture of commercial healthcare solutions operation. on, july 1, 2015, we completed the divestiture of hcs. we continued to report the results of hcs through the date of divestiture as part of our integrated network solutions segment. description of business by segment rf communications rf communications is a global supplier of secure tactical radio communications and high-grade encryption solutions for military, government and commercial customers and also of secure communications systems and equipment for public safety, utility and transportation customers. rf communications serves (i) u.s. department of defense and international tactical communications and (ii) public safety and professional communications markets. u.s. department of defense and international tactical communications market: we design, develop and manufacture a comprehensive line of secure radio communications products and systems for manpack, handheld, vehicular, airborne, strategic fixed-site and shipboard installations that span the communications architecture from high capacity line of site, backbone radios to small soldier personal radios and tablet computers. the radios operate in various radio frequency bands, including high-frequency, very high-frequency, ultra high-frequency ( uhf ) and l-band, with higher frequencies supported for some of our network backbone products. our radio systems are highly flexible, interoperable and capable of supporting diverse mission requirements. our falcon &reg; families of tactical radios are built on software-defined radio platforms that are reprogrammable to add features or software upgrades. our falcon radios also have the highest grade embedded encryption and provide highly mobile, secure and reliable network communications capability without relying on a fixed infrastructure. this capability allows warfighters, for example, to remain connected with each other and their command structures and support organizations. it also provides them the ability to communicate information and maintain situational awareness of both friendly and opposing forces, which are critical to both the safety and success of their missions. our radio systems have been widely deployed throughout all branches of the u.s. department of defense ( dod ) and, in the international market, have been sold to more than 100 countries through our international distribution channels consisting of regional sales offices and a broad dealer network and have become the standard in many of those countries. unlike many of our competitors operating on a government-funded programs-driven business model, we operate in this market on a commercial customer-driven business model. this means that we anticipate market needs, invest our internal research and development resources, build to our internal forecast and provide ready-to-ship, commercial off-the-shelf ( cots ) products to customers, enabling us to bring products to market faster and adapt to changing customer requirements. we believe the u.s. market is transitioning from operational tempo to a modernization cycle driven by wideband technology and that demand in the international market is being driven not only by the transition to wideband capability, but also by the need for network system solutions. our extensive line of radios is designed to operate and interface well together and support a variety of tactical requirements, which we believe gives us a competitive advantage in the international market, where fully integrated solutions for command, control and communications are often required. we believe our unique commercial business model that drives speed and innovation, coupled with the scale provided by our extensive international presence, will continue to make us competitive in the global market. our falcon iii &reg; family of radios is the next generation of multiband, multi-mission tactical radios supporting u.s. and international network-centric operations worldwide. our falcon iii radios address the full range of current mission and interoperability requirements and are fully upgradeable to address changing technical standards and mission requirements of the future. advances in our falcon iii radios include the support of wideband networking waveforms, extended frequency range and significant reductions in weight and size compared with previous generations. our falcon iii radios are used in a wide variety of ground, vehicular and airborne applications and include the following: our multiband manpack radio, the an/prc-117g ( 117g ), which provides wideband networking capability, enabling enhanced situational awareness through high-bandwidth applications such as streaming video, simultaneous voice and data feeds, collaborative chat and connectivity to secure networks, and which is national security agency ( nsa ) type-1-certified for narrowband communications, as well as for wideband communications using our harris-developed adaptive networking wideband waveform for high bandwidth data operation and the u.s. military joint tactical radio system ( jtrs ) soldier radio waveform; 3 table of contents our 2-channel vehicular radio system, the an/vrc-118, which uses the dod-developed wideband networking waveform and was selected as the u.s. army solution for its jtrs mid-tier networking vehicular radio program; our multiband handheld radios, the an/prc-152 ( 152 ), which is the world most widely fielded jtrs-approved software-defined handheld radio and offers a wide range of capabilities, and the an/prc-152a, which builds on our 152 by adding wideband, networked communications capability and is the first radio of its kind to support both a full range of narrowband legacy waveforms and wideband networking waveforms in a handheld platform; and our multi-channel manpack radio, the an/prc-158 ( 158 ), which is the first and only commercially developed, nsa type-1-certified radio offering two channels integrated into the same chassis, and our wideband rifleman team radio, the rf-330e ( 330e ), which is the commercially developed u.s. variant of our widely fielded international soldier personal radio. we have been investing to position ourselves for tactical radio modernization opportunities, including in our 158 and 330e, which are our next-generation manpack and rifleman radio solutions for the jtrs handheld, manpack and small form fit ( hms ) program. the u.s. army has changed its procurement strategy for the jtrs hms program to full and open competition and a multi-vendor award, allowing us an opportunity to compete. in fiscal 2015, we were awarded a 10-year (5-year base, 5 option years), $3.9 billion ceiling, multi-award indefinite delivery indefinite quantity ( idiq ) contract from the u.s. army for rifleman radios and associated services under the jtrs hms program. other major tactical radio procurements underway that we are pursuing include manpack radios for the u.s. army jtrs hms program and handheld and manpack radios for the u.s. special operations command modernization effort. we also have received orders for our 158 from three different dod customers and began shipments in fiscal 2015. our investments also include incorporating into our products the powerful mobile user objective system ( muos ) waveform for the dod next-generation military satellite communications ( satcom ) system. we are embedding muos capability in our 158, as well as offering it as a separate simple and fast software upgrade for widely fielded 117gs, creating an opportunity for the dod to transition its 117g inventory to muos-capable radios and quickly maximize the use of the satellite infrastructure. examples of significant international awards for us in fiscal 2015 include the following: a 4-year, c$180 million ceiling, single-award idiq contract from the canadian department of national defense; a $74 million order from an international customer for the next phase of a tactical communications modernization program; orders from australia of $55 million for technical and logistics support for the joint project 2072 battlespace communications program; and a number of other significant international orders, many of which are a part of multi-year programs or larger opportunities, across a broad customer base, including orders totaling $244 million from countries in the middle east; $21 million from a country in central asia; $18 million from a country in asia; $18 million from the philippines; and $26 million and $16 million from two nato countries. public safety and professional communications market: we supply assured communications &reg; systems and equipment for public safety, federal, utility, commercial and transportation organizations. we design, build, distribute, maintain and supply wireless communications systems. our voice, interoperability, data and access ( vida ) network platform is a unified internet protocol ( ip ) based voice and data communications system that provides network-level interoperable communications among public safety agencies by supporting a full line of communications systems, including opensky &reg; , networkfirst, p25 ip and enhanced digital access communication system. our vida &reg; network solutions currently serve as the backbone in some of the largest and most advanced statewide and regional communications networks in north america. we also are investing in next-generation, secure public safety-grade long term evolution ( lte ) solutions for voice, video and data applications. we also offer a full range of single-band land mobile radio terminals, as well as our unity tm family of multiband radios, including a handheld radio and a full-spectrum mobile radio for vehicles. our unity multiband radios cover all public safety frequency bands in a single radio; operate on association of public safety communications officials international ( apco ) p25 conventional and trunked systems; are backwards compatible with analog fm systems; and include advanced capabilities, such as an internal global positioning system ( gps ) receiver for situational awareness, internal secure bluetooth &reg; wireless technology and background noise suppression features. they also include true software-defined radio architecture that allows flexibility for future growth, including a software-only upgrade to apco p25 phase 2, the next-generation standard for mission-critical communications. our unity radios multiband, multi-mode capabilities enable a single radio to communicate with multiple organizations, jurisdictions and 4 table of contents agencies operating on different frequencies and systems, providing a significant improvement over many current radio systems for u.s. public safety, which are not interoperable and thus require users to carry multiple radios or route transmissions through ad-hoc network bridges, often configured at the time of an emergency, and resulting in instances where agencies responding to a common incident cannot talk to each other. in fiscal 2015, we introduced our new xg-15 portable radio, which extends our product offerings and provides public service workers with apco p25 capability at a competitive price. we also offer dispatch console systems. other examples of our public safety and professional communications solutions and services include the following: we are designing and building the alberta first responders radio communications system that will provide public safety communications within the 256,000 square-mile province of alberta, canada; we are deploying a communications network for the san francisco municipal transportation authority to increase operational efficiencies, improve safety and provide interoperability with public safety agencies; we are deploying an apco p25 system for the u.s. marine corps installations east region that also will provide interoperability with civilian agencies; we are designing and deploying a vida network system for the trinidad and tobago ministry of national security that will improve voice and data communication and provide interoperability among first responders and the ministry agencies; and we are designing, deploying and maintaining an apco p25 system for the new york metropolitan transit authority police to connect their police operations throughout 14 counties in new york and connecticut and help them support more than 14 million daily commuters. revenue, operating income and backlog: revenue for our rf communications segment decreased 2.9 percent to $1.775 billion in fiscal 2015 compared with $1.828 billion in fiscal 2014, and was $1.849 billion in fiscal 2013. segment operating income decreased 2.3 percent to $549 million in fiscal 2015 compared with $562 million in fiscal 2014, and was $577 million in fiscal 2013. the percentage of our revenue contributed by this segment was 35 percent in fiscal 2015 compared with 36 percent in fiscal 2014 and 36 percent in fiscal 2013. the percentage of this segment revenue that was derived outside of the u.s. was approximately 59 percent in fiscal 2015 compared with approximately 54 percent in fiscal 2014 and 44 percent in fiscal 2013. the percentage of this segment revenue that was derived from sales to u.s. government customers, including the dod and intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military sales funded through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, was approximately 38 percent in fiscal 2015 compared with approximately 46 percent in fiscal 2014 and 43 percent in fiscal 2013. for a general description of our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, including a discussion of revenue generated thereunder and of cost-reimbursable versus fixed-price contracts, see item 1. business principal customers; government contracts of this report. in general, this segment domestic products are sold and serviced directly to customers through its sales organization and through established distribution channels. internationally, this segment markets and sells its products and services through regional sales offices and established distribution channels. for a general description of our international business, see item 1. business international business of this report. the funded backlog for this segment was $1.0 billion at the end of fiscal 2015 compared with $1.1 billion at the end of fiscal 2014 and $1.3 billion at the end of fiscal 2013. additional information regarding funded backlog is provided under item 1. business funded and unfunded backlog of this report. for a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, see item 1. business principal customers; government contracts, item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this report. government communications systems government communications systems conducts advanced research studies, develops prototypes, and produces state-of-the art spaceborne, airborne and terrestrial communications and information processing systems that solve the mission-critical challenges of our civilian, intelligence and defense government customers worldwide, primarily the u.s. government. government communication systems serves (i) civil, (ii) national intelligence and (iii) defense markets. civil market: we provide highly reliable, mission-critical communications and information processing systems that meet the most demanding needs of civilian u.s. government agencies, including the federal aviation administration ( faa ) and the national oceanic and atmospheric administration ( noaa ). we use our ability to implement and manage large, complex programs that integrate secure, advanced communications and information processing technologies in order to improve productivity and to achieve cost savings for our customers. our networks 5 table of contents and information systems for large-scale, geographically dispersed enterprises offer advanced capabilities for collecting, processing, analyzing, interpreting, displaying, distributing, storing and retrieving data. we are a leader in satellite ground data processing, in which our systems consisting of complex suites of hardware and software receive sensor data from satellites and turn it into useable information. as an example of our capabilities, we are the prime contractor and system architect under a 20-year contract awarded in july 2002, with a potential value of $5 billion, for the faa telecommunications infrastructure ( fti ) program to integrate, modernize, operate and maintain the communications infrastructure for the u.s. air traffic control system. we designed and deployed, and are currently operating and maintaining, the fti network, which is a fully operational, modern, secure and efficient network providing voice, data and video communications deployed at approximately 4,500 faa sites across the u.s. (including administrative sites supported by the fti network). we recently have been awarded multiple contracts for essential elements of the faa multi-billion dollar next generation air transportation system ( nextgen ) initiative to transform the u.s. air traffic control system to meet future requirements, including: 7-year contracts, with an aggregate contract value of $481 million, for the data communications integrated services ( datacomm ) program (including the data communications network service component) to transform voice-based air traffic control to automated air traffic management; a 15-year, $291 million nextgen national airspace system ( nas ) voice system contract to create a modern voice over internet protocol ( voip ) network for communications among air traffic controllers, pilots and ground personnel; an 8-year, $238 million single-award idiq contract from the faa for the common support services weather program to design and implement a system that provides real-time weather information across the nas; and a 5-year, $63 million nas enterprise messaging service idiq contract that provides the systems wide information management program with enterprise-wide data sharing for a variety of critical information such as flight planning, traffic flow, surface radar and weather. we also have developed a number of other solutions under faa programs, including a voice switching and control system providing the critical air-to-ground communications links between en-route aircraft and air traffic controllers throughout the continental u.s.; an integrated weather briefing and flight planning system for alaska general aviation community, for which we were awarded a follow-on contract in fiscal 2015; a meteorological data processing system that generates radar mosaic data for air traffic controller displays and delivers weather data to critical subsystems within the nas; and a satellite-based alaskan nas interfacility communications system linking the alaskan air route traffic control center in anchorage with faa facilities throughout the region. another example of our capabilities relates to the noaa geostationary operational environmental satellite series r ( goes-r ) ground and antenna segment weather programs. under two 10-year contracts, with an aggregate potential value of approximately $1 billion (including change orders), we are providing a complete, end-to-end solution to design, develop, deploy and operate the ground segment system that will receive and process satellite data and generate and distribute weather data to more than 10,000 direct users, as well as providing the command and control of operational satellites. we also are supplying antennas and control systems that will provide communications links for command, telemetry and sensor data, as well as the communications link to direct data users. the new antennas will operate with next-generation goes-r satellites and will be compatible with existing goes-n through goes-p satellites. in fiscal 2013, the goes-r weather program transitioned from the design and development phase to the integration, test and deployment phase. we also are modernizing the ground segment of the tracking and data relay satellite system ( tdrss ) network under a 5-year contract, potentially worth $140 million, for the space network ground segment sustainment ( sgss ) program for the national aeronautics and space administration ( nasa ). the tdrss network is used by satellites and spacecraft in low-earth orbit to relay data continuously to ground stations in white sands, new mexico and in guam. the modernization will improve situational awareness for tdrss network operators, upgrade computing and signal processing equipment, enhance reliability and maintainability, improve efficiency and reduce operations and sustainment costs. national intelligence market: a significant portion of this market involves classified programs. although classified programs generally are not discussed in this report, the operating results relating to classified programs are included in our consolidated financial statements. we believe that the business risks associated with those programs do not differ materially from the business risks associated with other u.s. government programs. we are a major developer, supplier and integrator of communications and information processing products, systems and networks for a diverse base of u.s. intelligence community programs, and we support the ongoing transformation of the intelligence community into a more collaborative enterprise. serving primarily national 6 table of contents intelligence and security agency customers, including the nsa, the national reconnaissance office and the national geospatial-intelligence agency ( nga ), we provide integrated isr solutions that improve situational awareness, data collection accuracy and product analysis by correlating near real-time mission data and intelligence reference data for display and analysis by strategic and tactical planners and decision makers. our isr systems help to integrate information across the analyst workflow, accelerating the movement of information that has been collected and processed. for example, our image processing capabilities extend from algorithm development through delivery of operations systems, and we are providing advanced image exploitation and dissemination solutions for isr applications by advancing image processing, image data fusion, display technologies and digital product generation techniques. applicable technologies range from new techniques for merging and displaying imagery to automated techniques for image screening, cueing and remote visualization. also, our mapping and visualization capabilities provide complete, accurate and timely knowledge about the threat, terrain, status and location of single or multiple opposing and friendly forces and their support by utilizing data, pictures, voice and video drawn from vast storage banks or from real-time input which can be transmitted around the world in fractions of a second. in addition, we have industry-leading capabilities in the architecture, design and development of highly specialized satellite antennas, structures, phased arrays and on-board processors, which are used to enable next-generation satellite systems to provide the u.s. military and intelligence communities with strategic and tactical advantages. we also are a leader in the design and development of antenna and reflector technologies for commercial space telecommunications applications. with more than 50 reflectors in orbit, we are the leading supplier of large reflector apertures and deployable mesh antenna systems for government and commercial applications. in fiscal 2015, we were awarded a number of new contracts and follow-on contracts under classified programs, including a 5-year, $300 million single-award idiq contract to integrate various intelligence systems, and a $23 million contract from a classified customer for space situational awareness. we also introduced two new space reflector products a first-to-market 5-meter unfurlable ka-band antenna serving a growing market for high throughput satellites and a new lightweight fixed-mesh reflector. in fiscal 2014, we were awarded two 5-year, single-award idiq contracts, with an aggregate contract value of $773 million, by the nga for the foundation geoint content management ( fgcm ) program to provide imagery products for two of three regions $365 million for region a for the u.s. pacific command and u.s. northern command and $408 million for region c for the u.s. africa command and u.s. southern command. we also are leveraging our core capabilities to address adjacencies and create new opportunities. for example, we are supplying aireon, llc with 81 automatic dependent surveillance-broadcast ( ads-b ) receiver payloads that will be part of a satellite-based aircraft tracking system to enhance global air traffic control. the payloads will be hosted on the iridium next satellite constellation, but will provide a capability separate from the main mission of the constellation, and we are adding other customers and increasing the number of payloads. in fiscal 2015, we received an order from exactearth ltd. to place 58 commercially-hosted payloads on the iridium next constellation to track maritime vessels, and we were awarded a $495 million multi-vendor idiq contract from the u.s. air force for the hosted payload solutions program for commercial hosting capabilities for u.s. government payloads, which provides us a contract vehicle to pursue additional opportunities. defense market: we develop, supply and integrate communications and information processing products, systems and networks for a diverse base of aerospace, terrestrial and maritime applications supporting dod missions, and we are committed to delivering leading-edge technologies that support the ongoing transformations of military communications for u.s. and international customers. our technologies are providing advanced mobile wideband networking capabilities to assure timely and secure network-centric capabilities across strategic, operational and tactical boundaries in support of the dod full spectrum of warfighting, intelligence and logistics missions. our major technology capabilities include advanced ground control systems and satcom terminals for transportable ground, fixed-site and shipboard applications; flat-panel, phased-array and single-mission antennas; advanced aviation electronics for military jets, including digital maps, processors, sensors, data buses, fiber optics and microelectronics; and high-speed data links and data networks for wireless communications. we also develop and supply state-of-the-art wireless voice and data products and solutions. examples of ongoing programs for us in this market include the following: the u.s. army modernization of enterprise terminals ( met ) program, for which we are developing, under a 10-year contract awarded in fiscal 2009 with a potential value of $600 million, next-generation large satellite earth stations to provide the worldwide backbone for high-priority military communications and missile defense systems and to support ip and dedicated circuit connectivity within the global information grid, providing critical reach-back capability for the warfighter; 7 table of contents the f-35 joint strike fighter ( f-35 ) and f/a-18e/f super hornet aircraft platform programs, for which we provide high-performance, advanced avionics such as high-speed fiber optic networking and switching, intra-flight data links, image processing, digital map software and other electronic components, including multifunction advanced data link communications subsystems primarily intended for stealth platform air-to-air communications and which allow f-35s to communicate in a stealth fashion with other network nodes without revealing their positions; and the u.s. navy commercial broadband satellite program, for which we are providing shipboard terminals that give crews access to high-bandwidth voice and data communications. revenue, operating income and backlog: revenue for our government communications systems segment increased 3.0 percent to $1.855 billion in fiscal 2015 compared with $1.801 billion in fiscal 2014, and was $1.784 billion in fiscal 2013. segment operating income increased 5.4 percent to $292 million in fiscal 2015 compared with $277 million in fiscal 2014, and was $252 million in fiscal 2013. the percentage of our revenue contributed by this segment was 36 percent in fiscal 2015 compared with 36 percent in fiscal 2014 and 35 percent in fiscal 2013. the percentages of this segment revenue under contracts directly with end customers and under contracts with prime contractors were approximately 75 percent and 25 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2015 compared with approximately 74 percent and 26 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2014 and 73 percent and 27 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2013. in fiscal 2015, this segment had a diverse portfolio of over 200 programs. some of this segment more significant programs in fiscal 2015 included fgcm, f-35, wireless products, satcom terminals, highband networking radios, airborne mission radios and various classified programs. the percentages of this segment revenue in a particular fiscal year represented by this segment largest program by revenue in such fiscal year and ten largest programs by revenue in such fiscal year were approximately 14 percent and 56 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2015 compared with approximately 14 percent and 53 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2014 and 13 percent and 49 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2013. the percentage of this segment revenue that was derived from sales to u.s. government customers, including the dod and intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military sales funded through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, was approximately 93 percent in fiscal 2015 compared with approximately 93 percent in fiscal 2014 and 93 percent in fiscal 2013. for a general description of our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, including a discussion of revenue generated thereunder and of cost-reimbursable versus fixed-price contracts, see item 1. business principal customers; government contracts of this report. the funded backlog for this segment was $1.0 billion at the end of fiscal 2015 compared with $918 million at the end of fiscal 2014 and $948 million at the end of fiscal 2013. unfunded backlog for this segment was $2.9 billion at the end of fiscal 2015 compared with $3.3 billion at the end of fiscal 2014 and $2.5 billion at the end of fiscal 2013. additional information regarding funded and unfunded backlog is provided under item 1. business funded and unfunded backlog of this report. for a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, see item 1. business principal customers; government contracts, item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this report. integrated network solutions integrated network solutions provides integrated communications and information technology and services, including a variety of trusted networking capabilities, to support government, energy and maritime customers. integrated network solutions serves (i) it services and (ii) managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions markets and also served the commercial healthcare solutions market until july 1, 2015, when we completed the divestiture of hcs. it services market: we are a leading systems and network integrator and prime contractor providing mission-critical, end-to-end it services for defense, intelligence, homeland security and civilian government customers. we have positions as a prime contractor on many key u.s. government idiq contract vehicles related to it services. examples of our work in designing, integrating, deploying, operating and supporting secure communications systems and information networks for complex, mission-critical applications include the following: we are providing operations and maintenance support at locations around the world for the communications functions for the u.s. air force 50th space wing satellite control network, a global, continuously operational network of ground stations, operational control nodes and communications links that support launch and command and control ( c2 ) of various space programs managed by the dod and other national security space organizations, under the network and space operations and maintenance ( nsom ) program, and we are a leader in satellite mission c2 systems, which feature cots design and high levels of flexibility, are designed for government and commercial applications, and support single-satellite missions as well as some of the largest and most complex satellite fleets deployed; 8 table of contents we are providing the canadian government with engineering and logistics services to support the avionics systems on the cf-18 hornet fighter aircraft under the cf-18 avionics optimized weapon system support program; we are providing it integration of installation, training, help desk, passport and configuration management services for the u.s. department of state under the consular affairs support services contract in support of more than 240 u.s. embassies and consulates around the world; we are providing comprehensive operational and system maintenance support and engineering and technology enhancements for the defense information systems agency crisis management system for which we were awarded a new, 10-year, $450 million single award idiq contract in fiscal 2015; we are providing enterprise it support services to the north american air defense command and the u.s. northern command; and we are (i) providing electronic health record interoperability to enhance continuity of care between the dod and the department of veterans affairs ( va ), (ii) designing and installing a wireless network for va medical centers and (iii) improving electronic data interoperability for claims processing, as one of eight companies in the large business category awarded the 5-year transformation twenty-one total technology idiq contract vehicle from the va designed to upgrade the va it system and covering services to streamline and modernize va operations, including patient care delivery at more than 150 va hospitals. managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions market: harris caprock communications is a global provider of end-to-end fully-managed hybrid communications network solutions to critical operations in remote and harsh locations for energy, maritime and government customers. we own and operate a robust global infrastructure that includes teleports on six continents; network operations centers running 24 hours per day, seven days per week; local presence in 23 countries; and over 200 global field service personnel supporting customer locations in more than 80 countries across north america, central and south america, europe, africa and asia-pacific. our customers include major land-based and offshore energy, mining and engineering and construction companies; leading transocean shipping and cruise line companies; and government and military customers with defense and intelligence missions. we combine satellite, terrestrial and wireless technologies to provide comprehensive communications solutions that connect customers remote sites with each other and with distant headquarters. our solutions focus on voice, data and networking solutions for remote sites and are supported by a global managed satellite network. examples of our hybrid communications network solutions include the following: we are providing satellite communications services, including all shipboard equipment, onboard it system integration and satellite bandwidth, under multi-year agreements covering over 700 sites operating worldwide for one energy customer and over 80 sites operating worldwide for another energy customer; we are providing data, voice and networking service to drilling ships operating in offshore brazil and satellite communications to drilling ships operating in offshore norway; we are delivering turnkey managed satellite communications to a fleet of 58 offshore supply vessels operating in the north sea, brazil, australia and indian pacific regions and managed communication services on over 300 commercial shipping and service vessels; we are providing managed global satellite communications services for a major cruise line across its fleet of more than 100 cruise ships and providing managed global communications services for more than 30 cruise ships for another major cruise line to improve overall communications performance and enhance guest and crew experiences; and we are providing managed service networks leveraging 2 ghz of c-, ku-, uhf- and x-band commercial space segment capacity for monitoring and control, teleport services, terrestrial communications, operations and maintenance to dod agency customers operating around the world and to classified customers, supporting a range of missions, including airborne isr, tactical field-deployed communications and continuity of operations. commercial healthcare solutions market: we offered commercial and international healthcare providers a full range of interoperability and business intelligence solutions until we completed the divestiture of hcs on july 1, 2015. our interoperability solutions included fusionfx &reg; , which was our new vendor-neutral integrated suite of software tools that advanced our previous interoperability platform by incorporating a new service-oriented architecture foundation and that integrated with leading electronic health record and other legacy systems to securely bring together patient information from across the continuum of care and make it available to clinical teams for value-based, accountable and coordinated care. revenue, operating income and backlog: revenue for our integrated network solutions segment decreased 14.4 percent to $1.253 billion in fiscal 2015 compared with $1.463 billion in fiscal 2014, and was $1.576 billion in fiscal 2013. segment operating income decreased 63.8 percent to $42 million in fiscal 2015 compared with 9 table of contents $116 million in fiscal 2014, and was $80 million in fiscal 2013. the percentage of our revenue contributed by this segment was 25 percent in fiscal 2015 compared with 29 percent in fiscal 2014 and 31 percent in fiscal 2013. the percentages of this segment revenue under contracts directly with end customers and under contracts with prime contractors were approximately 80 percent and 20 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2015 compared with approximately 77 percent and 23 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2014 and 78 percent and 22 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2013. the percentage of this segment revenue that was derived outside of the u.s. was approximately 38 percent in fiscal 2015 compared with approximately 33 percent in fiscal 2014 and 30 percent in fiscal 2013. the percentages of this segment revenue in a particular fiscal year represented by this segment largest u.s. government program by revenue in such fiscal year and five largest u.s. government programs by revenue in such fiscal year were approximately 7 percent and 24 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2015 compared with approximately 9 percent and 28 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2014 and 9 percent and 29 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2013. the percentage of this segment revenue that was derived from sales to u.s. government customers, including the dod and intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military sales funded through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, was approximately 54 percent in fiscal 2015 compared with approximately 60 percent in fiscal 2014 and 62 percent in fiscal 2013. for a general description of our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, including a discussion of revenue generated thereunder and of cost-reimbursable versus fixed-price contracts, see item 1. business principal customers; government contracts of this report. in general, this segment domestic products are sold and serviced directly to customers through its sales organization and through established distribution channels. internationally, this segment markets and sells its products and services through regional sales offices and established distribution channels. for a general description of our international business, see item 1. business international business of this report. the funded backlog for this segment was $853 million at the end of fiscal 2015 compared with $973 million at the end of fiscal 2014 and $934 million at the end of fiscal 2013. unfunded backlog for this segment was $777 million at the end of fiscal 2015 compared with $921 million at the end of fiscal 2014 and $1.1 billion at the end of fiscal 2013. additional information regarding funded and unfunded backlog is provided under item 1. business funded and unfunded backlog of this report. for a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, see item 1. business principal customers; government contracts, item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this report. exelis as described above, we completed the acquisition of exelis on may 29, 2015, approximately one month prior to the end of our fiscal 2015. exelis is a diversified aerospace, defense, information and services business that leverages its deep customer knowledge and technical expertise to deliver affordable mission-critical solutions to military, government and commercial customers in the united states and globally. exelis, provides positioning and navigation, sensors, air traffic management solutions, image processing and distribution, communications and information systems. we provide engineered systems and solutions, including isr systems; geospatial systems; positioning, navigation and timing solutions; integrated electronic warfare systems; electronic attack and release systems; radar and reconnaissance systems; undersea systems; composite aerostructures; and communications and night vision systems for government and commercial customers globally. we provide integrated real-time, autonomous geospatial solutions, extending from image and data collection through processing, exploitation and dissemination of actionable intelligence. our specialized capabilities include highly reliable remote sensing systems for ground, air and space, offering active and motion imaging; data encryption; information processing; real-time forensic and predictive analytics; and system performance modeling and simulation. we also provide ground processing and analytics solutions that map and monitor earth for a variety of commercial and government users. our environmental systems monitor and evaluate our global environment with ground based and space based remote sensing, change detection, and data processing. we also supply gps navigation systems, providing high-performance, reliable, cost-effective gps payload, receiver and control solutions. we have recently developed new gps satellite navigation payload technologies to improve gps accuracy and reliability under the gps iii program, as a subcontractor on a team developing and building tomorrow gps for the u.s. air force. in addition to satellite modernization efforts, the next-generation global positioning system operational control system ( gps ocx ) will provide a new command, control and mission support system for all current and future gps satellites based on a modern, service-oriented architecture. we are providing the key navigation processing elements and precision monitor station receivers for the gps ocx program that includes advanced anti-jam capabilities and improved system security, accuracy and reliability. we design, develop, produce and sell electronic warfare solutions to most u.s. military service branches and to classified customers and allied nations and produce electronic warfare countermeasures solutions for tactical and strategic aircraft. we are a key player on airborne platforms such as the u.s. navy f/a-18 and u.s. special 10 table of contents operations forces mh-60, mh-47 and cv-22 aircraft. we also design and produce aircraft-armament suspension and release equipment and weapons interface systems for fighter jets, surveillance aircraft and unmanned aerial vehicles for the u.s. military and allied forces. our products also include advanced antenna technologies which provide communication, navigation, direction-finding and electronic warfare capabilities for military and commercial aircraft. we also design and manufacture high performance radar systems and signal intelligence systems for both domestic and international military customers. our core radar capabilities include air defense radars, air traffic control ( atc ) radars and airborne multifunction radars. we provide electronic warfare and signals intelligence systems for reconnaissance and surveillance for electronic intelligence, electronic support measures, electronic counter measures and signals intelligence applications. we develop advanced, custom solutions which provide our government and commercial customers with self-protection, data protection, enhanced communications and situational awareness. we specialize in satellite based communications systems, ground electronic warfare systems, commercial wireless technologies, tagging, tracking and locating, and information assurance. to combat the anti-access/area denial ( a2/ad ) threat, we leverage an adaptive multiplatform approach to ensure that users can connect and share data globally without being constrained by terrain or distance. we integrate data devices into a2/ad-resilient architectures which provide a secure global backbone for c4isr capabilities against sophisticated adversaries. we supply to the u.s. navy and allied navies a broad range of undersea warfare systems for maritime platforms and environments, including mine sweeping systems, shipboard command and control systems, anti-submarine warfare ( asw ) sonar systems, data link systems, submarine flank and passive towed arrays, and acoustic sensors for military and commercial uses. we are the largest u.s. manufacturer of influence and mechanical mine sweeping systems and are a trusted provider of mine defense solutions to the u.s. navy. we design and manufacture technically advanced, lightweight composite aerospace assembly structures, sub-assemblies and components for defense and commercial industries in applications from large commercial transport aircraft to fighter jets and commercial and military rotorcraft. our composite design and fabrication expertise can be found on many commercial platforms, such as boeing 7-series family, airbus a380 aircraft, general electric genx engine, and sikorsky s-76 helicopter. for defense programs, we provide a wide range of products, including complete structural assemblies, flight critical components, and primary and secondary structural elements for platforms such as the f-35 lightning ii, the ch-53k heavy lift helicopter and the joint air-to-surface standoff missile. we design and manufacture wireless tactical communications systems for u.s. and allied forces, as well as many government agencies. in addition to our widely deployed single channel ground and airborne radio system, we provide a diversified portfolio of communications-related products, including: interference cancellation systems for e/a-18g growler aircraft to enable communications-while-jamming performance; global network on the move active distribution mobile satellite communications systems for persistent, long-haul connectivity in austere environments; and spearnet enhanced video on-board tactical wearable radios, which, when combined with night vision and intelligence dissemination products, forms the individual soldier system integrated solution. we are a leader in image intensification and sensor fusion technology and produce high performance night vision products. we develop, produce and supply generation 3 image intensification technology for u.s. and allied military and security forces. we provide an/pvs-14 and an/pvs-7 ground night vision goggles and spare image intensifier tubes to the u.s. and allied militaries, via foreign military sales, and we are the primary supplier to the u.s. military for the an/avs-6 and an/avs-9 aviation night vision goggles, which provide rotary- and fixed-wing aircraft pilots the ability to operate in extreme low-light situations. we also developed the enhanced night vision goggle ( envg ) system, which was the first production goggle to optically overlay traditional night vision imagery with long wave thermal infrared imagery. the envg system enables users to effectively operate in extreme low light and obscured battlefield conditions. we provide a broad range of service solutions, including systems integration; network design and development; air traffic management; cyber; intelligence; advanced engineering; and space launch and range-support, for a wide variety of u.s. military and u.s. government customers. our advanced information solutions portfolio includes enduring mission support, advanced research and development support, and enterprise information support to deliver affordable, essential mission solutions for critical networks and isr and analytics applications. we serve enduring missions in military and national intelligence, strategic deterrence, and defense against chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear and explosive threats, and other core defense programs. we develop information-enabled solutions for u.s. government customers that rely on our expertise to securely access, integrate and share sensitive data. these solutions integrate key capabilities in cyber defense, cross-domain information sharing, broad enterprise applications of information technology, and the implementation of leading edge network and systems architectures. for example, we are the prime contractor for the u.s. joint spectrum center ( jsc ) electromagnetic spectrum 11 table of contents engineering services contract, under which we provide engineering systems support, technical analysis, test support, and long-term strategic planning as jsc meets national security and military objectives related to the use of the electromagnetic spectrum. we provide air traffic control navigation, communication and surveillance solutions as well as space and ground communications networks. we provide the faa with engineering expertise and full system solutions in the development and implementation of a modernized air traffic system. as the prime contractor on the ads-b program, which is the faa nextgen initiative to modernize from a ground-based to a satellite-based system of air traffic management, we are designing, building and operating a nationwide system of radio communications, telecommunications networks, information technology and software to deliver highly accurate, networked, real-time surveillance data to the automated systems of the faa. we have extended our integrated network systems capabilities to the commercial aviation market with a comprehensive, web-based application suite called symphony &reg; , which enables key business functions, such as flight information display systems, billing, auditing, resource allocation, environmental monitoring and situational awareness, for airports and airlines to improve efficiencies in their operations. we also provide advanced engineering services for nasa space and ground communications networks. we are the prime contractor on nasa space communications network services ( scns ) contract for the goddard space flight center, which provides most of the communications and tracking services for a wide range of earth-orbiting spacecraft, such as the international space station, the hubble space telescope and the earth observing system satellites. we provide operations, maintenance and engineering support to nasa under the deep space network ( dsn ) contract. the dsn is an international network that supports interplanetary robotic spacecraft missions and radio and radar astronomy observations and provides the link between earth and scores of nasa spacecraft exploring the solar system. we provide a full spectrum of technical services supporting mission critical network systems. these services include systems engineering, lifecycle sustainment, logistic support, modernization, and operations and maintenance for u.s. military launch, test and training ranges, including dod satcom systems, nasa ground communications networks and launch ranges and other high-priority u.s. government assets throughout the world. key areas of support include system engineering, sustainment, logistics, depot maintenance, software and hardware engineering and configuration management for range instrumentation such as tracking, telemetry, optical, weather, communications, and command and control networks and systems. we also provide payload processing and launch services for numerous government agencies. these key systems and assets are critical to the launch range and space communications network infrastructures, including the air, land and sea training range for the u.s. navy and the u.s. air force space launch ranges on the u.s. east and west coasts. under our tethered aerostat radar system program, we operate and maintain a series of airborne radar platforms and associated infrastructure and communications to provide persistent, long-range detection and monitoring (radar surveillance) capability for interdicting low-level air, maritime and surface smugglers and narcotics traffickers along the united states-mexico border, the florida straits and a portion of the caribbean. under our spacelift range system contract, which ended in fiscal 2015 and contributed $85 million in revenue to exelis for all of harris fiscal 2015, we engineered, modernized and sustained large networks and range support infrastructure for the western ranges based in vandenburg air force base in california and the eastern ranges based in patrick air force base in florida. we also sustain, maintain and modernize large radar installations globally and provide engineering support and sustainment for the u.s. air force early warning system under our system engineering and sustainment integrator ( sensor ) contract. on september 27, 2014, before being acquired by harris, exelis completed the spin-off of part of its military and government services business ( vectrus or vectrus, inc. ). for a discussion of risks relating to the spin-off of vectrus completed by exelis, see item ia. risk factors of this report. revenue, operating income and backlog: since the close of the acquisition on may 29, 2015, our exelis segment contributed $279 million of revenue and $37 million of operating income in fiscal 2015. the percentage of our revenue contributed by this segment was 5 percent in fiscal 2015. the funded backlog for this segment was $2.5 billion at the end of fiscal 2015. unfunded backlog for this segment was $3.2 billion at the end of fiscal 2015. additional information regarding funded and unfunded backlog is provided under item 1. business funded and unfunded backlog of this report. for a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts, see item 1. business principal customers; government contracts, item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this report. 12 table of contents international business revenue from products and services exported from the u.s., including foreign military sales, or manufactured or rendered abroad was $1.6 billion (31 percent of our revenue; 32 percent of our revenue, excluding exelis) in fiscal 2015 compared with $1.5 billion (30 percent of our revenue) in fiscal 2014 and $1.3 billion (26 percent of our revenue) in fiscal 2013. most of our international sales were derived from our rf communications and integrated network solutions segments. direct export sales are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars, whereas sales from foreign subsidiaries are generally denominated in the local currency of the subsidiary. financial information regarding our domestic and international operations is contained in note 24: business segments in the notes and is incorporated herein by reference. the majority of our international marketing activities are conducted through subsidiaries which operate in canada, europe, the middle east, central and south america, africa and asia. we have also established international marketing organizations and several regional sales offices. for further information regarding our international subsidiaries, see exhibit 21 of this report. we utilize indirect sales channels, including dealers, distributors and sales representatives, in the marketing and sale of some lines of products and equipment, both domestically and internationally. these independent representatives may buy for resale or, in some cases, solicit orders from commercial or government customers for direct sales by us. prices to the ultimate customer in many instances may be recommended or established by the independent representative and may be above or below our list prices. our dealers and distributors generally receive a discount from our list prices and may mark up those prices in setting the final sales prices paid by the customer. the percentages of our total revenue and international revenue represented by revenue from indirect sales channels were approximately 16 percent and 44 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2015 compared with approximately 13 percent and 40 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2014 and 10 percent and 33 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2013. fiscal 2015 international revenue came from a large number of countries, and no single foreign country accounted for more than 4 percent of our total revenue. some of our exports are paid for by letters of credit, with the balance carried either on an open account or installment note basis. advance payments, progress payments or other similar payments received prior to or upon shipment often cover most of the related costs incurred. significant foreign government contracts generally require us to provide performance guarantees. in order to stay competitive in international markets, we also sometimes enter into offset agreements or recourse or vendor financing arrangements to facilitate sales to certain customers. the particular economic, social and political conditions for business conducted outside the u.s. differ from those encountered by domestic businesses. our management believes that the overall business risk for our international business as a whole is somewhat greater than that faced by our domestic businesses as a whole. a description of the types of risks to which we are subject in our international business is contained in item 1a. risk factors of this report. in the opinion of our management, these risks are partially mitigated by the diversification of our international business and the protection provided by letters of credit and advance payments, progress payments and other similar payments. competition we operate in highly competitive markets that are sensitive to technological advances. many of our competitors in each of our markets are larger than we are and can maintain higher levels of expenditures for research and development. in each of our markets, we concentrate on the opportunities that our management believes are compatible with our resources, overall technological capabilities and objectives. principal competitive factors in these markets are product quality and reliability; technological capabilities; service; past performance; ability to develop and implement complex, integrated solutions; ability to meet delivery schedules; the effectiveness of third-party sales channels in international markets; and cost-effectiveness. we frequently partner or are involved in subcontracting and teaming relationships with companies that are, from time to time, competitors on other programs. in the rf communications segment, principal competitors include airbus ds communications (formerly cassidian communications, an airbus group company), aselsan a.s., elbit systems ltd., general dynamics corporation, motorola solutions, inc., rockwell collins, inc., raytheon company, rohde &amp; schwarz group, selex es (a finmeccanica group company), tait ltd. and thales group. in the government communications systems segment, principal competitors include bae systems plc, the boeing company, general dynamics corporation, l-3 communications holdings, inc., lockheed martin corporation, northrop grumman corporation, raytheon company, and rockwell collins, inc. 13 table of contents in the integrated network solutions segment, principal competitors include astrium services government, inc. (an airbus group company), computer sciences corporation, engility holdings, inc., general dynamics corporation, leidos holdings, inc., lockheed martin corporation, mtn, northrop grumman corporation, raytheon company and rignet, inc. in the exelis segment, principal competitors include bae systems, inc., the boeing company, eads n.v., finmeccanica s.p.a, general dynamics corporation, l-3 communications corporation, leidos holdings, inc., lockheed martin corporation, northrop grumman corporation, raytheon company and thales group. principal customers; government contracts the percentage of our revenue that was derived from sales to u.s. government customers, including the dod and intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military sales funded through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, was approximately 64 percent in fiscal 2015 compared with approximately 67 percent in fiscal 2014 and 67 percent in fiscal 2013. no other customer accounted for more than 3 percent of our revenue in fiscal 2015. additional information regarding customers for each of our segments is provided under item 1. business description of business by segment of this report. our u.s. government sales are predominantly derived from contracts with agencies of, and prime contractors to, the u.s. government. most of the sales in our government communications systems segment, our exelis segment and, with respect to u.s. government programs in our integrated network solutions segment, are made directly or indirectly to the u.s. government under contracts or subcontracts containing standard government contract clauses providing for redetermination of profits, if applicable, and for termination for the convenience of the u.s. government or for default based on performance. our u.s. government contracts and subcontracts include both cost-reimbursable and fixed-price contracts. government-wide acquisition contracts ( gwacs ) and multi-vendor idiq contracts, which can include task orders for each contract type, require us to compete both for the initial contract and then for individual task or delivery orders under such contracts. our u.s. government cost-reimbursable contracts provide for the reimbursement of allowable costs plus payment of a fee and fall into three basic types: (i) cost-plus fixed-fee contracts, which provide for payment of a fixed fee irrespective of the final cost of performance; (ii) cost-plus incentive-fee contracts, which provide for payment of a fee that may increase or decrease, within specified limits, based on actual results compared with contractual targets relating to factors such as cost, performance and delivery schedule; and (iii) cost-plus award-fee contracts, which provide for payment of an award fee determined at the customer discretion based on our performance against pre-established performance criteria. under our u.s. government cost-reimbursable contracts, we are reimbursed periodically for allowable costs and are paid a portion of the fee based on contract progress. some overhead costs have been made partially or wholly unallowable for reimbursement by statute or regulation. examples are certain merger and acquisition costs, lobbying costs, charitable contributions, interest expense and certain litigation defense costs. our u.s. government fixed-price contracts are either firm fixed-price contracts or fixed-price incentive contracts. under our u.s. government firm fixed-price contracts, we agree to perform a specific scope of work for a fixed price and, as a result, benefit from cost savings and carry the burden of cost overruns. under our u.s. government fixed-price incentive contracts, we share with the u.s. government both savings accrued for performance at less than target cost as well as costs incurred in excess of target cost up to a negotiated ceiling price, which is higher than the target cost, but carry the entire burden of costs exceeding the negotiated ceiling price. accordingly, under such incentive contracts, profit may also be adjusted up or down depending on whether specified performance objectives are met. under our u.s. government firm fixed-price and fixed-price incentive contracts, we generally receive either milestone payments equaling 100 percent of the contract price or monthly progress payments from the u.s. government in amounts equaling 80 percent of costs incurred under the contract. the remaining amounts, including profits or incentive fees, are billed upon delivery and final acceptance of end items and deliverables under the contract. our production contracts are mainly fixed-price contracts, and development contracts are generally cost-reimbursable contracts. as stated above, u.s. government contracts are terminable for the convenience of the u.s. government, as well as for default based on performance. companies supplying goods and services to the u.s. government are dependent on congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of funds and may be affected by changes in u.s. government policies resulting from various military, political, economic and international developments. long-term u.s. government contracts and related orders are subject to cancellation if appropriations for subsequent performance periods become unavailable. under contracts terminable for the convenience of the u.s. government, a contractor is entitled to receive payments for its allowable costs and, in general, the proportionate share of fees or earnings for the work done. contracts that are terminable for default generally provide that the u.s. government pays 14 table of contents only for the work it has accepted and may require the contractor to pay for the incremental cost of re-procurement and may hold the contractor liable for damages. in many cases, there is also uncertainty relating to the complexity of designs, necessity for design improvements and difficulty in forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work. under many u.s. government contracts, we are required to maintain facility and personnel security clearances complying with dod and other federal agency requirements. for further discussion of risks relating to u.s. government contracts, see item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings of this report. funded and unfunded backlog our total company-wide funded and unfunded backlog, including for exelis, was approximately $12.2 billion at the end of fiscal 2015 compared with approximately $7.2 billion at the end of fiscal 2014 and $6.8 billion at the end of fiscal 2013. the funded portion of this backlog was approximately $5.3 billion at the end of fiscal 2015 compared with approximately $3.0 billion at the end of fiscal 2014 and $3.2 billion at the end of fiscal 2013. the determination of backlog involves substantial estimating, particularly with respect to customer requirements contracts and development and production contracts of a cost-reimbursable or incentive nature. the level of order activity related to u.s. government programs can be affected by timing of u.s. government funding authorizations and project evaluation cycles. year-over-year comparisons could, at times, be impacted by these factors, among others. we define funded backlog as unfilled firm orders for products and services for which funding has been authorized and, in the case of u.s. government agencies, appropriated. we define unfunded backlog as primarily unfilled firm contract value for which funding has not yet been authorized or, in the case of u.s. government agencies, appropriated, including the value of contract options in cases of material contracts that have options we believe are probable of being exercised, as well as the most probable value of material sole-source idiq contracts awarded for a specific limited purpose. in fiscal 2016, we expect to convert to revenue approximately 68 percent of our total funded backlog as of july 3, 2015. however, we can give no assurance of such fulfillment or that our funded backlog will become revenue in any particular period, if at all. backlog is subject to delivery delays and program cancellations, which are beyond our control. additional information with regard to the backlog of each of our segments is provided under item 1. business description of business by segment of this report. research and development research and development expenditures totaled approximately $935 million in fiscal 2015, $865 million in fiscal 2014 and $900 million in fiscal 2013. company-sponsored research and development costs, which included research and development for commercial products and services and independent research and development related to government products and services, as well as concept formulation studies and technology development that occurs on bid and proposal efforts, were approximately $277 million in fiscal 2015, $264 million in fiscal 2014 and $254 million in fiscal 2013. a portion of our independent research and development costs are allocated among contracts and programs in process under u.s. government contractual arrangements. company-sponsored research and development costs not otherwise allocable are charged to expense when incurred. the portion of total research and development expenditures that was not company-sponsored principally funded by the u.s. government and included in our revenue and cost of product sales and services was $657 million in fiscal 2015, $601 million in fiscal 2014 and $646 million in fiscal 2013. company-sponsored research is directed to the development of new products and services and to building technological capability in selected communications and electronic systems markets. u.s. government-funded research helps strengthen and broaden our technical capabilities. as of july 3, 2015, we employed approximately 9,200 engineers and scientists and are continuing efforts to make the technologies developed in any of our business segments available for all other business segments. patents and other intellectual property we consider our patents and other intellectual property, in the aggregate, to constitute an important asset. we own a large and valuable portfolio of patents, trade secrets, know-how, confidential information, trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property, and we routinely apply for new patents, trademarks and copyrights. we also license intellectual property to and from third parties. as of july 3, 2015, we held approximately 1,870 u.s. patents and 1,890 foreign patents, and had approximately 360 u.s. patent applications pending and 1,040 foreign patent applications pending. unpatented research, development and engineering skills also make an important contribution to our business. although our intellectual property rights in the aggregate are important to our business and the operations of our business segments, we do not consider our business or any business segment to be materially dependent on any single patent, license or other intellectual property right, or any group of related patents, licenses or other intellectual property rights. we are engaged in a proactive patent licensing program and have entered into a number of licenses and cross-license agreements, some of which generate royalty income. although existing license agreements have generated 15 table of contents income in past years and may do so in the future, there can be no assurances we will enter into additional income-producing license agreements. from time to time we engage in litigation to protect our patents and other intellectual property. any of our patents, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights and other proprietary rights could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or may not provide competitive advantages. for further discussion of risks relating to intellectual property, see item 1a. risk factors of this report. with regard to certain patents relating to our government communications systems, rf communications and exelis segments, the u.s. government has an irrevocable, non-exclusive, royalty-free license, pursuant to which the u.s. government may use or authorize others to use the inventions covered by such patents. pursuant to similar arrangements, the u.s. government may consent to our use of inventions covered by patents owned by other persons. numerous trademarks used on or in connection with our products are also considered to be a valuable asset. environmental and other regulations our facilities and operations are subject to numerous domestic and international laws and regulations designed to protect the environment, particularly with regard to wastes and emissions. the applicable environmental laws and regulations are common within the industries and markets in which we operate and serve. we believe that we have complied with these requirements and that such compliance has not had a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. based on currently available information, we do not expect capital expenditures over the next several years to protect the environment and to comply with current environmental laws and regulations, as well as to comply with current and pending climate control legislation, regulation, treaties and accords, to have a material impact on our competitive position or financial condition, but we can give no assurance that such expenditures will not exceed current expectations. if future treaties, laws and regulations contain more stringent requirements than presently anticipated, actual expenditures may be higher than our present estimates of those expenditures. we have installed waste treatment facilities and pollution control equipment to satisfy legal requirements and to achieve our waste minimization and prevention goals. we did not spend material amounts on environmental capital projects in fiscal 2015, fiscal 2014 or fiscal 2013. a portion of our environmental expenditures relates to historic discontinued operations (other than cis and broadcast communications) for which we have retained certain environmental liabilities. we currently expect that amounts to be spent for environmental-related capital projects will not be material in fiscal 2016. these amounts may increase in future years. additional information regarding environmental and regulatory matters is set forth in item 3. legal proceedings of this report and in note 1: significant accounting policies and note 25: legal proceedings and contingencies in the notes. electronic products are subject to governmental environmental regulation in a number of jurisdictions, such as domestic and international requirements requiring end-of-life management and/or restricting materials in products delivered to customers, including the european union directive 2012/19/eu on waste electrical and electronic equipment and directive 2011/65/eu on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment ( rohs ), as amended. other jurisdictions have adopted similar legislation. such requirements typically are not applicable to most equipment produced by our government communications systems, rf communications and exelis segments. we believe that we have complied with such rules and regulations, where applicable, with respect to our existing products sold into such jurisdictions. we intend to comply with such rules and regulations with respect to our future products. wireless communications, whether radio, satellite or telecommunications, are also subject to governmental regulation. equipment produced in our rf communications and integrated network solutions segments, in particular, is subject to domestic and international requirements to avoid interference among users of radio and television frequencies and to permit interconnection of telecommunications equipment. additionally, we hold licenses for our managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions market for very small aperture terminals and satellite earth stations, which authorize operation of networks and teleports. we are also required to comply with technical operating and licensing requirements that pertain to our wireless licenses and operations. we believe that we have complied with such rules and regulations and licenses with respect to our existing products and services, and we intend to comply with such rules and regulations and licenses with respect to our future products and services. governmental reallocation of the frequency spectrum also could impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. raw materials and supplies because of the diversity of our products and services, as well as the wide geographic dispersion of our facilities, we use numerous sources for the wide array of raw materials, such as electronic components, printed circuit boards, metals and plastics, needed for our operations and for our products. we are dependent on suppliers and subcontractors for a large number of components and subsystems and the ability of our suppliers and subcontractors to adhere to 16 table of contents customer or regulatory materials restrictions and to meet performance and quality specifications and delivery schedules. in some instances, we are dependent on one or a few sources, either because of the specialized nature of a particular item or because of local content preference requirements pursuant to which we operate on a given project. although we have been affected by financial and performance issues of some of our suppliers and subcontractors, we have not been materially adversely affected by the inability to obtain raw materials or products. on occasion, we have experienced component shortages from vendors as a result of natural disasters, or the rohs environmental regulations in the european union or similar regulations in other jurisdictions. these events or regulations may cause a spike in demand for certain electronic components, such as lead-free components, resulting in industry-wide supply chain shortages. as of july 3, 2015, these component shortages have not had a material adverse effect on our business. for further discussion of risks relating to subcontractors and suppliers, see item 1a. risk factors of this report. seasonality we do not consider any material portion of our business to be seasonal. various factors can affect the distribution of our revenue between accounting periods, including the timing of contract awards and the timing and availability of u.s. government funding, as well as the timing of product deliveries and customer acceptance. employees we had approximately 22,300 employees at the end of fiscal 2015. approximately 93 percent of our employees as of the end of fiscal 2015 were located in the u.s. a significant number of our employees possess a u.s. government security clearance. we also utilize a number of independent contractors. approximately 900, or approximately 4 percent, of our employees are working under collective bargaining agreements with labor unions and worker representatives. these collective bargaining agreements will be renegotiated at various times over the next three years as they expire. exelis and its predecessors have historically renegotiated these agreements without significant disruption to operating activities. for certain international subsidiaries, our employees are represented by workers councils or statutory labor unions. in general, we believe that our relations with our employees are good. website access to harris reports; available information general. we maintain an internet website at http://harris.com . our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to such reports, filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act, are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the securities and exchange commission (the sec ). we also will provide the reports in electronic or paper form free of charge upon request. we also make available free of charge on our website our annual report to shareholders and proxy statement. our website and the information posted thereon are not incorporated into this report or any current or other periodic report that we file with or furnish to the sec. all reports we file with or furnish to the sec also are available free of charge via the sec electronic data gathering and retrieval, or edgar, system available through the sec website at http://www.sec.gov. additional information relating to our business, including our business segments, is set forth in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report. corporate governance guidelines and committee charters. we previously adopted corporate governance guidelines, which are available on the corporate governance section of our website at http://harris.com/corporate_governance/ . in addition, the charters of each of the standing committees of our board, namely, the audit committee, business conduct and corporate responsibility committee, corporate governance committee, finance committee and management development and compensation committee, are also available on the corporate governance section of our website. a copy of the charters is also available free of charge upon written request to our secretary at harris corporation, 1025 west nasa boulevard, melbourne, florida 32919. certifications. we have filed with the sec the certifications required by section 302 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 as exhibits to this report. in addition, an annual ceo certification was submitted by our chief executive officer to the new york stock exchange ( nyse ) in november 2014 in accordance with the nyse listing standards, which included a certification that he was not aware of any violation by harris of the nyse corporate governance listing standards. item 1a. risk factors. we have described many of the trends and other factors that we believe could impact our business and future results in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report. in addition, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are subject to, and could be materially adversely affected by, various risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, those set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or our anticipated future results. 17 table of contents we depend on u.s. government customers for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of these relationships, a reduction in u.s. government funding or a change in u.s. government spending priorities could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are highly dependent on sales to u.s. government customers. the percentage of our revenue that was derived from sales to u.s. government customers, including the dod and intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military sales funded through the u.s. government, whether directly or through prime contractors, was approximately 64 percent in fiscal 2015, 67 percent in fiscal 2014 and 67 percent in fiscal 2013. therefore, any significant disruption or deterioration of our relationship with the u.s. government would significantly reduce our revenue. our competitors continuously engage in efforts to expand their business relationships with the u.s. government and will continue these efforts in the future, and the u.s. government may choose to use other contractors. we expect that a majority of the business that we seek will be awarded through competitive bidding. the u.s. government has increasingly relied on certain types of contracts that are subject to multiple competitive bidding processes, including multi-vendor idiq, gwac, general services administration schedule and other multi-award contracts, which has resulted in greater competition and increased pricing pressure. we operate in highly competitive markets and our competitors may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do in some areas, and we may not be able to continue to win competitively awarded contracts or to obtain task orders under multi-award contracts. further, the competitive bidding process involves significant cost and managerial time to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us or may be split among competitors, as well as the risk that we may fail to accurately estimate the resources and costs required to fulfill any contract awarded to us. following any contract award, we may experience significant expense or delay, contract modification or contract rescission as a result of our competitors protesting or challenging contracts awarded to us in competitive bidding. the current competitive environment has resulted in unsuccessful bidders more frequently initiating bid protests and, in some cases, the bid protest has resulted in a portion of the work subject to the bid being awarded to the bid protester in exchange for withdrawing the bid protest. our u.s. government programs must compete with programs managed by other government contractors and with other policy imperatives for consideration for limited resources and for uncertain levels of funding during the budget and appropriation process. budget and appropriations decisions made by the u.s. government are outside of our control and have long-term consequences for our business. u.s. government spending priorities and levels remain uncertain and difficult to predict and are affected by numerous factors, including sequestration (automatic, across-the-board u.s. government budgetary spending cuts) and potential alternative funding arrangements. a change in u.s. government spending priorities or an increase in non-procurement spending at the expense of our programs, or a reduction in total u.s. government spending, could have material adverse consequences on our future business. for more information regarding sequestration, see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations business considerations industry-wide opportunities, challenges and risks of this report. we depend significantly on u.s. government contracts, which often are only partially funded, subject to immediate termination, and heavily regulated and audited. the termination or failure to fund, or negative audit findings for, one or more of these contracts could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. over its lifetime, a u.s. government program may be implemented by the award of many different individual contracts and subcontracts. the funding of u.s. government programs is subject to congressional appropriations. although multi-year contracts may be authorized and appropriated in connection with major procurements, congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis. procurement funds are typically made available for obligation over the course of one to three years. consequently, programs often receive only partial funding initially, and additional funds are obligated only as congress authorizes further appropriations. the termination of funding for a u.s. government program would result in a loss of anticipated future revenue attributable to that program, which could have an adverse impact on our operations. in addition, the termination of a program or the failure to commit additional funds to a program that already has been started could result in lost revenue and increase our overall costs of doing business. generally, u.s. government contracts are subject to oversight audits by u.s. government representatives. such audits could result in adjustments to our contract costs. any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, and such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. we have recorded contract revenue based on costs we expect to realize upon final audit. however, we do not know the outcome of any future audits and adjustments, and we may be required to materially reduce our revenue or profits upon completion and final negotiation of audits. negative audit findings could also result in termination of a contract, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or debarment from u.s. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. 18 table of contents in addition, u.s. government contracts generally contain provisions permitting termination, in whole or in part, without prior notice at the u.s. government convenience upon the payment only for work done and commitments made at the time of termination. we can give no assurance that one or more of our u.s. government contracts will not be terminated under these circumstances. also, we can give no assurance that we would be able to procure new contracts to offset the revenue or backlog lost as a result of any termination of our u.s. government contracts. because a significant portion of our revenue is dependent on our performance and payment under our u.s. government contracts, the loss of one or more large contracts could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our government business also is subject to specific procurement regulations and a variety of socioeconomic and other requirements. these requirements, although customary in u.s. government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. these costs might increase in the future, thereby reducing our margins, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could lead to fines, penalties, repayments, or compensatory or treble damages, or suspension or debarment from u.s. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. among the causes for debarment are violations of various laws, including those related to procurement integrity, export control, u.s. government security regulations, employment practices, protection of the environment, accuracy of records, proper recording of costs and foreign corruption. the termination of a u.s. government contract or relationship as a result of any of these acts would have an adverse impact on our operations and could have an adverse effect on our standing and eligibility for future u.s. government contracts. we could be negatively impacted by a security breach, through cyber attack, cyber intrusion or otherwise, or other significant disruption of our it networks and related systems or of those we operate for certain of our customers. we face the risk, as does any company, of a security breach, whether through cyber attack or cyber intrusion over the internet, malware, computer viruses, attachments to e-mails, persons inside our organization or persons with access to systems inside our organization, or other significant disruption of our it networks and related systems. we face an added risk of a security breach or other significant disruption of the it networks and related systems that we develop, install, operate and maintain for certain of our customers, which may involve managing and protecting information relating to national security and other sensitive government functions or personally identifiable or protected health information. the risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. as a communications and it company, and particularly as a government contractor, we face a heightened risk of a security breach or disruption from threats to gain unauthorized access to our and our customers proprietary or classified information on our it networks and related systems and to the it networks and related systems that we operate and maintain for certain of our customers. these types of information and it networks and related systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day-to-day operations, and, in some cases, are critical to the operations of certain of our customers. although we make significant efforts to maintain the security and integrity of these types of information and it networks and related systems, and we have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption, there can be no assurance that our security efforts and measures will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging. even the most well protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because attempted security breaches, particularly cyber attacks and intrusions, or disruptions will occur in the future, and because the techniques used in such attempts are constantly evolving and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed not be detected and, in fact, may not be detected. in some cases, the resources of foreign governments may be behind such attacks due to the nature of our business and the industries in which we operate. accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures, and thus it is virtually impossible for us to entirely mitigate this risk. a security breach or other significant disruption involving these types of information and it networks and related systems could: disrupt the proper functioning of these networks and systems and therefore our operations and/or those of certain of our customers; result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of, proprietary, confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable information of ours or our customers, including trade secrets, which others could use to compete against us or for disruptive, destructive or otherwise harmful purposes and outcomes; compromise national security and other sensitive government functions; require significant management attention and resources to remedy the damages that result; subject us to claims for contract breach, damages, credits, penalties or termination; and 19 table of contents damage our reputation with our customers (particularly agencies of the u.s. government) and the public generally. any or all of the foregoing could have a negative impact on our business, financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows. the level of returns on defined benefit plan assets, changes in interest rates and other factors could affect our earnings and cash flows in future periods. a substantial portion of our current and retired employee population is covered by defined benefit pension and other postretirement defined benefit plans (collectively, defined benefit plans ), as a result of our acquisition of exelis. we may experience significant fluctuations in costs related to defined benefit plans as a result of macro-economic factors, such as interest rates, that are beyond our control. the cost of our defined benefit plans is incurred over long periods of time and involves various factors and uncertainties during those periods which can be volatile and unpredictable, including the rates of return on defined benefit plan assets, discount rates used to calculate liabilities and expenses, mortality of plan participants and trends for future medical costs. management develops each assumption using relevant plan and experience and expectations in conjunction with market-related data. our financial position and results of operations could be materially affected by significant changes in key economic indicators, financial market volatility, future legislation and other governmental regulatory actions. we will make contributions to fund our defined benefit plans when considered necessary or advantageous to do so. the macro-economic factors discussed above, including the rates of return on defined benefit plan assets and the minimum funding requirements established by government funding or taxing authorities, or established by other agreement, may influence future funding requirements. a significant decline in the fair value of our plan assets, or other adverse changes to our overall defined benefit plans, could require us to make significant funding contributions and affect cash flows in future periods. u.s. government cost accounting standards govern the extent to which postretirement costs and plan contributions are allocable to and recoverable under contracts with the u.s. government. as a result, we expect to continue to seek reimbursement from the u.s. government for a portion of our postretirement costs and plan contributions. on december 27, 2011 the u.s. government cost accounting standards board published a final rule that harmonizes cost accounting standards ( cas ) pension cost reimbursement rules with the pension protection act of 2006 ( ppa ) funding requirements. the rule is expected to eventually mitigate the mismatch between cas costs and ppa-amended erisa minimum funding requirements, and result in an acceleration of allowable cas pension costs as compared to the prior rules. the final rule applied to exelis contracts starting in 2013, although due to a five-year phase in, the full phase-in will not be not achieved until 2017. we anticipate that government contractors will be entitled to an equitable adjustment for any additional cas contract costs resulting from the final rule. we enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses in the event of cost overruns or a significant increase in inflation. we have a number of fixed-price contracts, which allow us to benefit from cost savings, but subject us to the risk of potential cost overruns, particularly for firm fixed-price contracts because we assume all of the cost burden. if our initial estimates are incorrect, we can lose money on these contracts. u.s. government contracts can expose us to potentially large losses because the u.s. government can hold us responsible for completing a project or, in certain circumstances, paying the entire cost of its replacement by another provider regardless of the size or foreseeability of any cost overruns that occur over the life of the contract. because many of these contracts involve new technologies and applications and can last for years, unforeseen events, such as technological difficulties, fluctuations in the price of raw materials, problems with our suppliers and cost overruns, can result in the contractual price becoming less favorable or even unprofitable to us over time. the u.s. and other countries also may experience a significant increase in inflation. a significant increase in inflation rates could have a significant adverse impact on the profitability of these contracts. furthermore, if we do not meet contract deadlines or specifications, we may need to renegotiate contracts on less favorable terms, be forced to pay penalties or liquidated damages or suffer major losses if the customer exercises its right to terminate. in addition, some of our contracts have provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights, and if we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts we may not realize their full benefits. our results of operations are dependent on our ability to maximize our earnings from our contracts. cost overruns could have an adverse impact on our financial results. the potential impact of such risk on our financial results would increase if the mix of our contracts and programs shifted toward a greater percentage of fixed-price contracts, particularly firm fixed-price contracts. 20 table of contents we use estimates in accounting for many of our programs and changes in our estimates could adversely affect our future financial results. accounting for our contracts requires judgment relative to assessing risks, including risks associated with customer directed delays and reductions in scheduled deliveries, unfavorable resolutions of claims and contractual matters, judgments associated with estimating contract revenue and costs, and assumptions for schedule and technical issues. due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenue and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. for example, we must make assumptions regarding: (i) the length of time to complete the contract because costs also include expected increases in wages and prices for materials; (ii) whether the intent of entering into multiple contracts was effectively to enter into a single project in order to determine whether such contracts should be combined or segmented; (iii) incentives or penalties related to performance on contracts in estimating revenue and profit rates, and record them when there is sufficient information for us to assess anticipated performance; and (iv) estimates of award fees in estimating revenue and profit rates based on actual and anticipated awards. because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes involved in accounting for our contracts, materially different amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. we derive a significant portion of our revenue from international operations and are subject to the risks of doing business internationally, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates. we are dependent on sales to customers outside the u.s. the percentage of our total revenue represented by revenue from products and services exported from the u.s., including foreign military sales, or manufactured or rendered abroad was 31 percent in fiscal 2015, 30 percent in fiscal 2014 and 26 percent in fiscal 2013. approximately 27 percent of our international business in fiscal 2015 was transacted in local currency. losses resulting from currency rate fluctuations can adversely affect our results. we expect that international revenue will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue. also, a significant portion of our international revenue is from, and an increasing portion of our business activity is being conducted in, less-developed countries and sometimes in countries with unstable governments, in areas of military conflict or at military installations. we are subject to risks of doing business internationally, including: currency exchange controls, fluctuations of currency and currency revaluations; the laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments relating to investments and operations, as well as u.s. laws affecting the activities of u.s. companies abroad, including the foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ); changes in regulatory requirements, including business or operating license requirements, imposition of tariffs or embargoes, export controls and other trade restrictions; uncertainties and restrictions concerning the availability of funding, credit or guarantees; the complexity and necessity of using, and disruptions involving our, international dealers, distributors, sales representatives and consultants; the difficulties of managing a geographically dispersed organization and culturally diverse workforces, including compliance with local laws and practices; difficulties associated with repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner and changes in tax laws; import and export licensing requirements and regulations, as well as unforeseen changes in export regulations; uncertainties as to local laws and enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights and occasional requirements for onerous contract clauses; rapid changes in government, economic and political policies, political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of international boycotts or u.s. anti-boycott legislation; and increased risk of an incident resulting in damage or destruction to our products or resulting in injury or loss of life to our employees, subcontractors or other third parties. our reputation and ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of our employees, agents or business partners. we have implemented compliance controls, policies and procedures designed to prevent reckless or criminal acts from being committed by our employees, agents or business partners that would violate the laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including laws governing payments to government officials, such as the fcpa, and to detect any such reckless or criminal acts committed. we cannot ensure, however, that our controls, policies and procedures will prevent or detect all such reckless or criminal acts. if not prevented, such reckless or criminal acts could subject us to civil or criminal investigations and monetary and non-monetary penalties and could have a material adverse effect on 21 table of contents our ability to conduct business, our results of operations and our reputation. in addition, misconduct involving data security lapses resulting in the compromise of personal information or the improper use of our customer sensitive or classified information could result in remediation costs, regulatory sanctions against us and serious harm to our reputation. we may not be successful in obtaining the necessary export licenses to conduct certain operations abroad, and congress may prevent proposed sales to certain foreign governments. we must first obtain export and other licenses and authorizations from various u.s. government agencies before we are permitted to sell certain products and technologies outside of the u.s. for example, the u.s. department of state must notify congress at least 15 to 60 days, depending on the size and location of the proposed sale, prior to authorizing certain sales of defense equipment and services to foreign governments. during that time, congress may take action to block the proposed sale. we can give no assurance that we will continue to be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses or authorizations or that congress will not prevent or delay certain sales. any significant impairment of our ability to sell products or technologies outside of the u.s. could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the continued effects of the general weakness in the global economy and the u.s. government budget deficits and national debt and sequestration could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. despite some positive trends in the u.s. economy, the economies of the u.s. and many foreign countries in which we do business continue to show weakness or limited improvement. we are unable to predict the impact, severity and duration of these economic events. the continued effects of these economic events and the u.s. government budget deficits and national debt and sequestration could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in a number of ways. possible effects of these economic conditions include the following: the u.s. government could reduce or delay its spending on, or reprioritize its spending away from, the government programs in which we participate; the u.s. government may be unable to complete its budget process before the end of its fiscal year on september 30 and thus would be required either to shut down or be funded pursuant to a continuing resolution that authorizes agencies of the u.s. government to continue operations but does not authorize new spending initiatives, either of which could result in reduced or delayed orders or payments for products and services we provide. if the u.s. government budget process results in a shutdown or prolonged operation under a continuing resolution, it may decrease our revenue, profitability or cash flows or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations; u.s. government spending could be impacted by sequestration or alternate arrangements, which increases the uncertainty as to, and the difficulty in predicting, u.s. government spending priorities and levels; we may experience declines in revenue, profitability and cash flows as a result of reduced or delayed orders or payments or other factors caused by the economic problems of our customers and prospective customers, including u.s. federal, state and local governments; we may experience supply chain delays, disruptions or other problems associated with financial constraints faced by our suppliers and subcontractors; and we may incur increased costs or experience difficulty with future borrowings under our commercial paper program or credit facilities or in the debt markets, or otherwise with financing our operating, investing (including any future acquisitions) or financing activities. our future success will depend on our ability to develop new products, systems, services and technologies that achieve market acceptance in our current and future markets. both our commercial and government businesses are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry standards. accordingly, our performance depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: identify emerging technological trends in our current and target markets; develop and maintain competitive products, systems, services and technologies; enhance our offerings by adding innovative hardware, software or other features that differentiate our products, systems, services and technologies from those of our competitors; and develop, manufacture and bring to market cost-effective offerings quickly. we believe that, in order to remain competitive in the future, we will need to continue to develop new products, systems, services and technologies, requiring the investment of significant financial resources. the need to make these expenditures could divert our attention and resources from other projects, and we cannot be sure that these 22 table of contents expenditures ultimately will lead to the timely development of new products, systems, services or technologies. due to the design complexity of some of our products, systems, services and technologies, we may experience delays in completing development and introducing new products, systems, services or technologies in the future. any delays could result in increased costs of development or redirect resources from other projects. in addition, we cannot provide assurances that the markets for our products, systems, services or technologies will develop as we currently anticipate. the failure of our products, systems, services or technologies to gain market acceptance could significantly reduce our revenue and harm our business. furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing products, systems, services or technologies that gain market acceptance in advance of our products, systems, services or technologies, or that our competitors will not develop new products, systems, services or technologies that cause our existing products, systems, services or technologies to become non-competitive or obsolete, which could adversely affect our results of operations. the future direction of the domestic and global economies, including its impact on customer demand, also will have a significant impact on our overall performance. we participate in markets that are often subject to uncertain economic conditions, which makes it difficult to estimate growth in our markets and, as a result, future income and expenditures. we participate in u.s. and international markets that are subject to uncertain economic conditions. in particular, u.s. government spending priorities and levels remain uncertain and difficult to predict and are affected by numerous factors, including sequestration and potential alternative funding arrangements. as a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth in the markets in which we participate. because all components of our budgeting and forecasting are dependent on estimates of growth in the markets we serve, the uncertainty renders estimates of or guidance relating to future revenue, income and expenditures even more difficult. as a result, we may make significant investments and expenditures but never realize the anticipated benefits. we cannot predict the consequences of future geo-political events, but they may adversely affect the markets in which we operate, our ability to insure against risks, our operations or our profitability. ongoing instability and current conflicts in global markets, including in the middle east and asia, and the potential for other conflicts and future terrorist activities and other recent geo-political events throughout the world have created economic and political uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and profitability. these matters cause uncertainty in the world financial and insurance markets and may significantly increase the political, economic and social instability in the geographic areas in which we operate. these matters also may cause our insurance coverages and performance bonds to increase in cost, or in some cases, to be unavailable altogether. we have made, and may continue to make, strategic acquisitions and divestitures that involve significant risks and uncertainties. strategic acquisitions and divestitures that we have made in the past, and may continue to make, present significant risks and uncertainties, which include: difficulty in identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions, including the risk that our due diligence does not identify or fully assess valuation issues, potential liabilities or other acquisition risks; difficulty in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations, including combining product and service offerings, and in entering into new markets in which we are not experienced, in an efficient and cost-effective manner while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures, and the risk that we encounter significant unanticipated costs or other problems associated with integration; difficulty in consolidating and rationalizing it infrastructure, which may include multiple legacy systems from various acquisitions and integrating software code; challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits expected from acquisitions; risk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the strategic acquisitions and divestitures do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; risk that we assume significant liabilities that exceed the limitations of any applicable indemnification provisions or the financial resources of any indemnifying parties; potential loss of key employees or customers of the businesses acquired or to be divested; risk that we are not able to complete strategic divestitures on satisfactory terms and conditions or within expected timeframes; and risk of diverting the attention of senior management from our existing operations. 23 table of contents disputes with our subcontractors and the inability of our subcontractors to perform, or our key suppliers to timely deliver our components, parts or services, could cause our products or services to be produced or delivered in an untimely or unsatisfactory manner. we engage subcontractors on many of our contracts. we may have disputes with our subcontractors, including regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor, customer concerns about the subcontract, our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders under a subcontract, our hiring of the personnel of a subcontractor or vice versa or the subcontractor failure to comply with applicable law. in addition, there are certain parts, components and services for many of our products and services which we source from other manufacturers or vendors. some of our suppliers, from time to time, experience financial and operational difficulties, which may impact their ability to supply the materials, components, subsystems and services that we require. our supply chain could also be disrupted by external events, such as natural disasters or other significant disruptions (including extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics, acts of terrorism, cyber attacks and labor disputes), governmental actions and legislative or regulatory changes, including product certification or stewardship requirements, sourcing restrictions, product authenticity and climate change or greenhouse gas emission standards. any inability to develop alternative sources of supply on a cost-effective and timely basis could materially impair our ability to manufacture and deliver products and services to our customers. we can give no assurances that we will be free from disputes with our subcontractors, material supply problems or component, subsystems or services problems in the future. also, our subcontractors and other suppliers may not be able to acquire or maintain the quality of the materials, components, subsystems and services they supply, which might result in greater product returns, service problems and warranty claims and could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, in connection with our government contracts, we are required to procure certain materials, components and parts from supply sources approved by the u.s. government. there are currently several components for which there may be only one supplier. the inability of a sole source supplier to meet our needs could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. third parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their intellectual property rights, and third parties may infringe upon our intellectual property rights. many of the markets we serve are characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights, which often has resulted in protracted and expensive litigation. third parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing or to have infringed directly or indirectly upon those intellectual property rights. claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. moreover, we may not be able to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us, or at all. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain of our products, services and solutions. our success depends in large part on our proprietary technology. we rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, know-how, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. if we fail to successfully protect and enforce these rights, our competitive position could suffer. our pending patent and trademark registration applications may not be allowed, or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents or trademark registrations. in addition, our patents may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and police our intellectual property rights. we may not be able to detect infringement and our competitive position may be harmed before we do so. in addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. the outcome of litigation or arbitration in which we are involved is unpredictable and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. from time to time, we are defendants in a number of litigation matters and are involved in a number of arbitrations. these actions may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. no assurances can be given that the results of these or new matters will be favorable to us. an adverse resolution of lawsuits or arbitrations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we face certain significant risk exposures and potential liabilities that may not be covered adequately by insurance or indemnity. we are exposed to liabilities that are unique to the products and services we provide. a significant portion of our business relates to designing, developing and manufacturing advanced defense, technology and communications systems and products. new technologies associated with these systems and products may be untested or unproven. components of certain of the defense systems and products we develop are inherently dangerous. failures of satellites, missile systems, air traffic control systems, homeland security applications and aircraft have the potential to cause loss 24 table of contents of life and extensive property damage. other examples of unforeseen problems that could result, either directly or indirectly, in the loss of life or property or otherwise negatively affect revenue and profitability include loss on launch of spacecraft, premature failure of products that cannot be accessed for repair or replacement, problems with quality and workmanship, country of origin, delivery of subcontractor components or services and unplanned degradation of product performance. in addition, problems and delays in development or delivery as a result of issues with respect to design, technology, licensing and patent rights, labor, learning curve assumptions or materials and components could prevent us from achieving contractual requirements. in many circumstances, we may receive indemnification from the u.s. government. while we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, and we may be forced to bear substantial costs from an accident or incident. it also is not possible for us to obtain insurance to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. substantial claims resulting from an incident in excess of u.s. government indemnity and our insurance coverage would harm our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. other factors that may affect revenue and profits include loss of follow-on work, and, in the case of certain contracts, liquidated damages, penalties and repayment to the customer of contract cost and fee payments we previously received. moreover, any accident or incident for which we are liable, even if fully insured, could negatively affect our standing with our customers and the public, thereby making it more difficult for us to compete effectively, and could significantly impact the cost and availability of adequate insurance in the future. changes in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. our future effective tax rate may be adversely affected by a number of factors including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not fully deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairment of goodwill or other long-term assets in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation expense; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; changes in domestic or international tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws; and the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact our results of operations for future periods. our level of indebtedness and our ability to make payments on or service our indebtedness and our unfunded pension liability may adversely affect our financial and operating activities or our ability to incur additional debt. at the end of fiscal 2015, we had $5.2 billion in aggregate principal amount of outstanding debt and approximately $2.0 billion of unfunded pension liability. in the future we may increase our borrowings; however, our ability to do so will be subject to limitations imposed on us by our debt agreements. our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness as well as any future debt that we may incur and our ability to make contributions to our unfunded pension liability, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future from operations, financings or asset sales. our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. if we are not able to repay or refinance our debt as it becomes due or make contributions to our unfunded pension liability, we may be forced to sell assets or take other disadvantageous actions, including (i) reducing financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes or (ii) dedicating an unsustainable level of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness. in addition, our ability to withstand competitive pressures and to react to changes in the defense technology industry could be impaired. the lenders who hold such debt could also accelerate amounts due, which could potentially trigger a default or acceleration of any of our other debt. a downgrade in our credit ratings could materially adversely affect our business. the credit ratings assigned to our debt securities could change based on, among other things, our results of operations, financial condition, mergers, acquisitions or dispositions. these ratings are subject to ongoing evaluation by credit rating agencies, and there can be no assurance that any rating will not be changed or withdrawn by a rating agency in the future. moreover, these credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold any of our debt securities. actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under review for a downgrade or have been assigned a negative outlook, would likely increase our borrowing costs and affect our ability to incur new indebtedness or refinance our existing indebtedness, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and could also have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock and outstanding debt securities. 25 table of contents unforeseen environmental issues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operations are subject to and affected by many federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. in addition, we could be affected by future environmental laws or regulations, including, for example, new restrictions on materials used in our operations. compliance with current and future environmental laws and regulations may require significant operating and capital costs. environmental laws and regulations may authorize substantial fines and criminal sanctions as well as facility shutdowns to address violations, and may require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit emissions or discharges. we also incur, and expect to continue to incur, costs to comply with current environmental laws and regulations related to remediation of conditions in the environment. in addition, if violations of environmental laws result in our, or in one or more of our facilities, being placed on the excluded parties list maintained by the general services administration, we could become ineligible to receive certain contracts, subcontracts and other benefits from the federal government or to perform work under a government contract or subcontract at any listed facility. generally, such ineligibility would continue until the basis for the listing has been appropriately addressed. developments such as the adoption of new environmental laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, violations by us of such laws and regulations, discovery of previously unknown or more extensive contamination, litigation involving environmental impacts, our inability to recover costs associated with any such developments under previously priced contracts, or financial insolvency of other responsible parties could in the future have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we have significant operations in locations that could be materially and adversely impacted in the event of a natural disaster or other significant disruption. our corporate headquarters and significant business operations are located in florida and other significant business operations are located in houston, texas, which areas are subject to the risk of major hurricanes. our worldwide operations and operations of our suppliers could be subject to natural disasters or other significant disruptions, including hurricanes, typhoons, tsunamis, floods, earthquakes, fires, water shortages, other extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics, acts of terrorism, power shortages and blackouts, telecommunications failures, cyber attacks and other natural and manmade disasters or disruptions. in the event of such a natural disaster or other disruption, we could experience disruptions or interruptions to our operations or the operations of our suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers or customers; destruction of facilities; and/or loss of life, all of which could materially increase our costs and expenses and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. changes in the regulatory framework under which our managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions operations are operated could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our domestic satellite and terrestrial communications solutions are currently provided on a private carrier basis and are therefore subject to a lesser degree of regulation by the federal communications commission and other federal, state and local agencies than if provided on a common carrier basis. our international satellite and terrestrial communications solutions operations are regulated by governments of various countries other than the u.s. and by other international authorities. the regulatory regimes applicable to our international satellite and terrestrial communications solutions operations frequently require that we obtain and maintain licenses for our operations and conduct our operations in accordance with prescribed standards. compliance with such requirements may inhibit our ability to quickly expand our operations into new countries, including in circumstances in which such expansion is required in order to provide uninterrupted service to existing customers with mobile operations as they move to new locations on short notice. failure to comply with such regulatory requirements could subject us to various penalties or sanctions. the adoption of new laws or regulations, changes to the existing domestic or international regulatory framework, new interpretations of the laws that apply to our operations, or the loss of, or a material limitation on, any of our material licenses could materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we rely on third parties to provide satellite bandwidth for our managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions, and any bandwidth constraints could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in our managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions operations, we compete for satellite bandwidth with other commercial entities, such as other satellite communications services providers and broadcasting companies, and with governmental entities, such as the military. in certain markets and at certain times, satellite bandwidth may be limited and/or pricing of satellite bandwidth could be subject to competitive pressure. in such cases, we may be unable to secure sufficient bandwidth needed to provide our managed satellite communications services, either at favorable rates or at all. this inability could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 26 table of contents changes in future business or other market conditions could cause business investments and/or recorded goodwill or other long-term assets to become impaired, resulting in substantial losses and write-downs that would adversely affect our results of operations. as part of our overall strategy, we will, from time to time, acquire a minority or majority interest in a business. these investments are made upon careful analysis and due diligence procedures designed to achieve a desired return or strategic objective. these procedures often involve certain assumptions and judgment in determining acquisition price. after acquisition, unforeseen issues could arise which adversely affect the anticipated returns or which are otherwise not recoverable as an adjustment to the purchase price. even after careful integration efforts, actual operating results may vary significantly from initial estimates. goodwill accounted for approximately 48 percent of our recorded total assets as of july 3, 2015. we evaluate the recoverability of recorded goodwill annually, as well as when we change reportable segments and when events or circumstances indicate there may be an impairment. the annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. principally, a decrease in expected reportable segment cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill. because of the significance of our goodwill and other intangible assets, any future impairment of these assets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. for additional information on accounting policies we have in place for impairment of goodwill, see our discussion under critical accounting policies and estimates in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report and note 1: significant accounting policies and note 3: discontinued operations in the notes. some of our workforce is represented by labor unions, so our business could be harmed in the event of a prolonged work stoppage. approximately 900 of our employees are unionized, which represents approximately 4% of our employee-base at the end of fiscal 2015. as a result, we may experience work stoppages, which could adversely affect our business. we cannot predict how stable our union relationships will be or whether we will be able to successfully negotiate successor collective bargaining agreements without impacting our financial condition. in addition, the presence of unions may limit our flexibility in dealing with our workforce. work stoppages could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we must attract and retain key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. our business has a continuing need to attract and retain significant numbers of skilled personnel, including personnel holding security clearances, to support our growth and to replace individuals whose employment has terminated due to retirement or for other reasons. to the extent that the demand for qualified personnel exceeds supply, as has been the case from time to time in recent years, we could experience higher labor, recruiting or training costs in order to attract and retain such employees, or could experience difficulties in performing under our contracts if our needs for such employees were unmet. risks relating to the spin-off of vectrus completed by exelis on september 27, 2014, before being acquired by harris, exelis completed the spin-off of vectrus. after the spin-off, exelis and vectrus operate independently of each other and neither company has an ownership interest in the other. prior to the completion of the spin-off, exelis and vectrus entered into a distribution agreement and related separation agreements that provided mechanisms for an orderly separation and govern the post-separation relationship between exelis and vectrus. these agreements generally provide that each party is responsible for its respective assets, liabilities and obligations following the spin-off, including employee benefits, intellectual property, information technology, insurance and tax-related assets and liabilities. the agreements also set forth exelis future commitments to provide vectrus with certain temporary transition services. the executed agreements include the distribution agreement, employee matters agreement, tax matters agreement, transition services agreement and several intellectual property agreements. the following are among the risks we face in connection with the spin-off of vectrus completed by exelis: we may be responsible for u.s. federal income tax liabilities that relate to the spin-off of vectrus completed by exelis. in connection with the spin-off of vectrus, completed by exelis prior to our acquisition of exelis, exelis received an opinion of tax counsel substantially to the effect that, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the spin-off will qualify for tax-free treatment under section 355 of the internal revenue code. however, if the factual assumptions or representations made in the opinion are inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, including those relating to the past and future conduct of our business, we will not be able to rely on the opinion. furthermore, the opinion will not be binding on the internal revenue service the ( irs ) or the courts. accordingly, the irs or the courts may challenge the conclusions stated in the opinion and such challenge could prevail. if, notwithstanding receipt of the opinion, the 27 table of contents spin-off is determined to be taxable, we would be subject to a substantial tax liability. in addition, if the spin-off transaction is taxable, each holder of exelis common stock who received shares of vectrus in the spin-off would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares received, thereby potentially increasing such holder tax liability. even if the vectrus spin-off otherwise qualifies as a tax-free transaction, the distribution could be taxable to us (but not to our shareholders) in certain circumstances if subsequent significant acquisitions of exelis stock or the stock of vectrus are deemed to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the vectrus spin-off. in this event, the resulting tax liability could be substantial. in connection with the vectrus spin-off, vectrus indemnified exelis for certain liabilities and exelis indemnified vectrus for certain liabilities. this indemnity may not be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of the liabilities assumed by vectrus and vectrus may be unable to satisfy its indemnification obligations to us in the future. as part of the distribution agreement, exelis and vectrus indemnified each other with respect to such parties assumed or retained liabilities pursuant to the distribution agreement and breaches of the distribution agreement or related separation agreements. there can be no assurance that the indemnity from vectrus will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of these and other liabilities, or that vectrus will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. third-parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that vectrus has agreed to assume. even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from vectrus any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear those losses ourselves. in addition, performance on indemnities that exelis provided vectrus may be significant and could negatively impact our business. each of these risks could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the vectrus spin-off may expose us to potential liabilities arising out of state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws and legal distribution requirements. the vectrus spin-off could be challenged under various state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws. an unpaid creditor or an entity vested with the power of such creditor (such as a trustee or debtor-in-possession in a bankruptcy) could claim that exelis did not receive fair consideration or reasonably equivalent value in the spin-off, and that the spin-off left exelis insolvent or with unreasonably small capital or that exelis intended or believed it would incur debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they mature. if a court were to agree with such a plaintiff, then such court could void the spin-off as a fraudulent transfer and could impose a number of different remedies, including, without limitation, returning assets or vectrus shares to exelis or providing exelis with a claim for money damages against vectrus in an amount equal to the difference between the consideration received by exelis and the fair market value of vectrus at the time of the spin-off. the measure of insolvency for purposes of the fraudulent conveyance laws may vary depending on which jurisdiction law is applied. generally, however, an entity would be considered insolvent if the fair saleable value of its assets is less than the amount of its liabilities (including the probable amount of contingent liabilities), and such entity would be considered to have unreasonably small capital if it lacked adequate capital to conduct its business in the ordinary course and pay its liabilities as they become due. no assurance can be given as to what standard a court would apply to determine insolvency or that a court would determine that exelis was solvent at the time of or after giving effect to the spin-off, including the distribution of vectrus common stock. the distribution by exelis of the vectrus common stock in the spin-off could also be challenged under state corporate distribution statutes. under the indiana business corporation law, a corporation may not make distributions to its shareholders if, after giving effect to the distribution, (i) the corporation would not be able to pay its debts as they become due in the usual course of business; or (ii) the corporation total assets would be less than the sum of its total liabilities. no assurance can be given that a court will not later determine that the distribution by exelis of vectrus common stock in the spin-off was unlawful. each of these risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. risks relating to the spin-off of exelis from itt corporation in 2011, itt corporation ( itt ) completed a transaction resulting in the spin-off of exelis and xylem, inc. ( xylem ). after the spin-off, exelis, itt and xylem operate independently of each other and none of the companies have any ownership interest in the other. in order to govern certain ongoing relationships between exelis, itt and xylem following the spin-off and to provide mechanisms for an orderly transition, exelis, itt, and xylem executed various agreements that govern the ongoing relationships between and among the three companies after the spin-off and provide for the allocation of employee benefits, income taxes, and certain other liabilities and obligations attributable to periods prior to the spin-off. the executed agreements include the distribution agreement, benefits and compensation matters agreement, tax matters agreement, several real estate matters agreements and master transition services agreement. 28 table of contents the distribution agreement provides for certain indemnifications and cross-indemnifications among exelis, itt and xylem. the indemnifications address a variety of subjects, including indemnification by itt of exelis in respect of certain asserted and unasserted asbestos or silica liability claims. these indemnifications include claims relating to the presence or alleged presence of asbestos or silica in products manufactured, repaired or sold prior to the distribution date, subject to limited exceptions with respect to certain employee claims. these indemnifications also include claims relating to the presence or alleged presence of asbestos or silica in the structure or material of any building or facility, subject to exceptions with respect to employee claims relating to exelis or xylem buildings or facilities. the indemnifications are absolute and indefinite. the indemnification associated with pending and future asbestos and silica claims does not expire. the tax matters agreement governs the respective rights, responsibilities and obligations of exelis, itt and xylem after the spin-off with respect to tax liabilities and benefits, tax attributes, tax contests and other tax sharing regarding u.s. federal, state, local and foreign income taxes, other tax matters and related tax returns. exelis has joint and several liability with itt and xylem to the irs for the consolidated u.s. federal income taxes of the itt consolidated group relating to the taxable periods in which exelis was part of that group. however, the tax matters agreement specifies the portion, if any, of this liability for which exelis bears responsibility, and itt and xylem agree to indemnify exelis against any amounts for which exelis is not responsible. though valid as between the parties, the tax matters agreement is not binding on the irs. the following are among the risks we face in connection with exelis spin-off from itt: the itt spin-off of exelis may expose us to potential liabilities arising out of state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws and legal distribution requirements. exelis spin-off from itt could be challenged under various state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws. an unpaid creditor or an entity vested with the power of such creditor (such as a trustee or debtor-in-possession in a bankruptcy) could claim that the itt spin-off left exelis, itt and/or xylem insolvent or with unreasonably small capital, or that exelis, itt and/or xylem intended or believed it would incur debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they mature and that itt did not receive fair consideration or reasonably equivalent value in the itt spin-off. if a court were to agree with such a plaintiff, then such court could void the itt spin-off as a fraudulent transfer and could impose a number of different remedies, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if we are required to indemnify itt or xylem in connection with the itt spin-off of exelis, we may need to divert cash to meet those obligations and our financial results could be negatively impacted. pursuant to the distribution agreement entered into in connection with the itt spin-off and certain other agreements among exelis, itt and xylem, itt and xylem agreed to indemnify exelis from certain liabilities, and exelis agreed to indemnify itt and xylem for certain liabilities as discussed further above. indemnities that we may be required to provide itt and xylem may be significant and could negatively impact our business. further, there can be no assurance that the indemnity from itt and xylem will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that itt and xylem will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. each of these risks could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 62 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of doing business, we are exposed to the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rates and changes in interest rates. we employ established policies and procedures governing the use of financial instruments to manage our exposure to such risks. for a discussion of such policies and procedures and the related risks, see financial risk management in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report, which is incorporated by reference into this item 7a. 62 table of contents