risk factors 17 risk factors" below. 5 portfolio summary our total portfolio of investments at december 31, 2007 includes investments in our consolidated portfolio and investments in our joint venture portfolio. consolidated portfolio as of december 31, 2007, our consolidated investment portfolio of properties under leases, development properties, mezzanine loans and other debt investments, excluding assets held for sale and classified as discontinued operations, consisted of the following (square feet and dollars in thousands): 2007 segment number of properties capacity(1) investment(2) noi(3) interest income(4) senior housing 246 25,804 units $ 4,158,129 $ 347,940 $ 2,338 life science 97 6,021 sq. ft. 3,272,687 73,293 medical office 205 13,912 sq. ft. 2,226,057 190,725 hospital 37 4,402 beds 1,456,951 127,364 46,967 skilled nursing 63 7,437 beds 1,221,972 43,056 5,751 number 648 $ 12,335,796 $ 782,378 $ 55,056 see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on our business segments. (1) senior housing facilities are measured in units (e.g., studio, one or two bedroom units). life science facilities and medical office buildings are measured in square feet. hospitals and skilled nursing facilities are measured in licensed bed count. (2) investment represents i) the carrying amount of real estate assets, including intangibles, after adding back accumulated depreciation and amortization, excluding assets held for sale and classified as discontinued operations; ii) the carrying amount of direct financing leases, after deducting interest accretion; and iii) the carrying amount of loans receivable and marketable debt securities. (3) net operating income from continuing operations ("noi") is a non-gaap supplemental financial measure used to evaluate the operating performance of real estate properties. for the reconciliation of noi to net income for 2007, refer to note 15 to our consolidated financial statements. (4) interest income represents income earned from our investments in loans and marketable debt securities, which is classified as interest and other income, net in our consolidated statements of income. joint venture portfolio as of december 31, 2007, our unconsolidated institutional joint ventures' portfolio consisted of the following (square feet and dollars in thousands): segment number of properties capacity(1) hcp's ownership interest joint venture's investment(2) total revenues total operating expenses senior housing 25 5,635 units 35% $ 1,097,267 $ 83,312 $ 7 life science 4 111 sq. ft. 20% 23,870 1,331 118 medical office 63 3,357 sq. ft. 20 - 30% 683,710 56,070 21,572 hospital 4 n/a(3) 20% 81,373 5,321 755 total 96 $ 1,886,220 $ 146,034 $ 22,452 6 (1) senior housing facilities are measured in units (e.g., studio, one or two bedroom units), life science facilities and medical office buildings are measured in square feet and hospitals are measured in licensed bed count. (2) represents the joint ventures' carrying amount of real estate assets, including intangibles, after adding back accumulated depreciation and amortization. (3) information not provided by the respective operator/tenant. at december 31, 2007, in addition to our interests in institutional joint ventures summarized above, we have interests in eight unconsolidated joint ventures that together own four senior housing facilities, four life science facilities and one medical office building. investment products properties under leases. at december 31, 2007, our investment in properties leased to third parties aggregated approximately $10.4 billion representing 641 properties, including 30 properties accounted for as direct financing leases. we primarily generate revenue by leasing healthcare properties under long-term leases. most of our rents and other earned income from leases are received under triple-net leases or leases that provide for substantial recovery of operating expenses; however, some of our medical office building ("mob") and life science facility rents are structured as gross or modified gross leases. accordingly, for such properties we incur certain property operating expenses, such as real estate taxes, repairs and maintenance, property management fees, utilities and insurance. our growth depends, in part, on our ability to (i) increase rental income and other earned income from leases by increasing rental rates and occupancy levels, (ii) maximize tenant recoveries given underlying lease structures and (iii) control operating and other expenses. most of our leases include annual base rent escalation clauses that are either predetermined fixed increases or are a function of an inflation index. we frequently acquire properties through sale lease-back and tax efficient transactions. development properties. at december 31, 2007, our investment in properties under development, or land identified for future development, primarily in our life science segment, aggregated $618 million. we generally commit to development projects that deliver appropriate, risk-adjusted rates of return if they are at least 50% pre-leased or we believe that market conditions will support speculative construction. we work closely with our local real estate service providers, including brokerage, property management, project management and construction management companies to assist us in evaluating development proposals. mezzanine loans and other debt investments. at december 31, 2007, our mezzanine loans and other debt investments aggregated $1.3 billion. our mezzanine loans are generally secured by a pledge of ownership interests of an entity or entities, which directly or indirectly own properties, and are subordinate to more senior debt, including mortgages and more senior mezzanine loans. our other debt investments consist primarily of marketable debt securities issued by healthcare providers, mortgages secured by healthcare real estate, and other secured loans. our loans generally include prepayment premiums and/or yield maintenance provisions. institutional joint ventures. we co-invest in real estate properties with institutional investors through joint ventures structured as partnerships or limited liability companies. we target institutional investors with long-term investment horizons who seek to benefit from our expertise in healthcare real estate. predominantly, we retain minority interests in the joint ventures ranging from 20% to 35% and serve as the managing member. these ventures generally allow us to earn acquisition and asset management fees, and have the potential for promoted interests or incentive distributions based on performance of the venture. during 2007, we placed an aggregate of approximately $1.7 billion of senior housing, medical office and hospital properties into institutional joint ventures. 7 healthcare segments and property types senior housing. at december 31, 2007, we had interests in 275 senior housing facilities, including 29 facilities owned by unconsolidated joint ventures. senior housing facilities include independent living facilities ("ilfs"), assisted living facilities ("alfs") and continuing care retirement communities ("ccrcs"), which cater to different segments of the elderly population based upon their needs. services provided by our operators or tenants in these facilities are primarily paid for by the residents directly or through private insurance and are less reliant on government reimbursement programs such as medicaid and medicare. our senior housing property types are further described below: independent living facilities. ilfs are designed to meet the needs of seniors who choose to live in an environment surrounded by their peers with services such as housekeeping, meals and activities. these residents generally do not need assistance with activities of daily living ("adl"), including bathing, eating and dressing. however, residents have the option to contract for these services. at december 31, 2007, we had interests in 50 ilfs, including 20 facilities owned by unconsolidated joint ventures. assisted living facilities. alfs are licensed care facilities that provide personal care services, support and housing for those who need help with adl yet require limited medical care. the programs and services may include transportation, social activities, exercise and fitness programs, beauty or barber shop access, hobby and craft activities, community excursions, meals in a dining room setting and other activities sought by residents. these facilities are often in apartment-like buildings with private residences ranging from single rooms to large apartments. certain alfs may offer higher levels of personal assistance for residents with alzheimer's disease or other forms of dementia. levels of personal assistance are based in part on local regulations. at december 31, 2007, we had interests in 210 alfs, including six facilities owned by unconsolidated joint ventures. continuing care retirement communities. ccrcs provide housing and health-related services under long-term contracts. this alternative is appealing to residents as it eliminates the need for relocating when health and medical needs change, thus allowing residents to "age in place." some ccrcs require a substantial entry or buy-in fee and most also charge monthly maintenance fees in exchange for a living unit, meals and some health services. ccrcs typically require the individual to be in relatively good health and independent upon entry. at december 31, 2007, we had interests in 15 ccrcs, including three facilities owned by unconsolidated joint ventures. our senior housing segment accounted for approximately 36%, 35% and 25% of total revenues for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. the following table provides information about our senior housing operator concentration for the year ended december 31, 2007: operator's revenues as a operators percentage of segment revenues percentage of total revenues sunrise senior living, inc. 43 % 16 % brookdale senior living inc. 18 7 life science. at december 31, 2007, we had interests in 105 life science properties, including eight facilities owned by unconsolidated joint ventures. life science properties are primarily configured in business park formats and typically include multiple facilities and buildings. these properties typically contain laboratory and office space primarily for biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, scientific research institutions, government agencies and other organizations involved in the life science industry. the business park plan allows us the opportunity to provide flexible, contiguous/adjacent expansion that accommodates the growth of clients in place. 8 our life science segment accounted for approximately 10%, 3% and 4% of total revenues for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. the following table provides information about our life science tenant concentration for the year ended december 31, 2007: tenant's revenues as a tenants percentage of segment revenues percentage of total revenues amgen, inc. 5 % 2 % genentech, inc. 5 2 medical office. at december 31, 2007, we had interests in 269 mobs, including 64 facilities owned by unconsolidated joint ventures. these facilities typically contain physicians' offices and examination rooms, and may also include pharmacies, hospital ancillary service space and outpatient services such as diagnostic centers, rehabilitation clinics and day-surgery operating rooms. while these facilities are similar to commercial office buildings, they require more plumbing, electrical and mechanical systems to accommodate multiple exam rooms that may require sinks in every room, brighter lights and special equipment such as medical gases. mobs are typically multi-tenant properties leased to multiple healthcare providers (hospitals and physician practices). our medical office segment accounted for approximately 34%, 34% and 33% of total revenues for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. during the year ended december 31, 2007, hca, inc. ("hca") contributed 39% of our medical office segment revenue. hospital. at december 31, 2007, we had interests in 41 hospitals, including four facilities owned by unconsolidated joint ventures. services provided by our operators and tenants in these facilities are paid for by private sources, third-party payors (e.g., insurance and health maintenance organizations (hmos)), or through the medicare and medicaid programs. all of our hospitals are leased to single tenants under net lease structures. our hospital property types are further described below: acute care hospitals. acute care hospitals offer a wide range of services such as fully-equipped operating and recovery rooms, obstetrics, radiology, intensive care, open heart surgery and coronary care, neurosurgery, neonatal intensive care, magnetic resonance imaging, nursing units, oncology, clinical laboratories, respiratory therapy, physical therapy, nuclear medicine, rehabilitation services and outpatient services. at december 31, 2007, we had interests in 15 acute care hospitals. long-term acute care hospitals. ltachs provide care for patients with complex medical conditions that require longer stays and more intensive care, monitoring or emergency back-up than that available in most skilled nursing-based programs. at december 31, 2007, we had interests in eight ltachs, including one facility owned by an unconsolidated joint venture. specialty hospitals. specialty hospitals are licensed as acute care hospitals but focus on providing care in specific areas such as cardiac, orthopedic and women's conditions, or specific procedures such as surgery and are less likely to provide emergency services. at december 31, 2007, we had interests in five specialty hospitals, including two facilities owned by unconsolidated joint ventures. rehabilitation hospitals. rehabilitation hospitals provide inpatient and outpatient care for patients who have sustained traumatic injuries or illnesses, such as spinal cord injuries, strokes, head injuries, orthopedic problems, work-related disabilities and neurological diseases. at december 31, 2007, we had interests in 13 rehabilitation hospitals, including one facility owned by an unconsolidated joint venture. 9 our hospital segment accounted for approximately 15%, 20% and 27% of total revenues for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. the following table provides information about our hospital operator/tenant concentration for the year ended december 31, 2007: operator's/tenant's revenues as a operators/tenants percentage of segment revenues percentage of total revenues tenet healthcare corporation 42 % 6 % hca. 14 6 (1) (1) percentage of total revenues from hca includes revenues earned from both our medical office and hospital segments. in addition to our investments in properties under leases, our hospital segment also includes investments in marketable debt securities and loans. our marketable debt securities and loans contributed approximately $27.6 million and $19.4 million, respectively, of interest income for the year ended december 31, 2007, of which $26.2 million relates to interest earned from marketable debt securities issued by hca. skilled nursing. at december 31, 2007, we had interests in 63 skilled nursing facilities ("snfs"). snfs offer restorative, rehabilitative and custodial nursing care for people not requiring the more extensive and sophisticated treatment available at hospitals. ancillary revenues and revenues from sub-acute care services are derived from providing services to residents beyond room and board and include occupational, physical, speech, respiratory and intravenous therapy, wound care, oncology treatment, brain injury care and orthopedic therapy as well as sales of pharmaceutical products and other services. certain skilled nursing facilities provide some of the foregoing services on an out-patient basis. skilled nursing services provided by our operators and tenants in these facilities are primarily paid for either by private sources or through the medicare and medicaid programs. all of our snfs are leased to single tenant operators under net lease structures. our skilled nursing segment accounted for approximately 5%, 8% and 12% of total revenues for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. the following table provides information about our skilled nursing operator operator/tenant concentration for the year ended december 31, 2007: operator's/tenant's revenues as a operators/tenants percentage of segment revenues percentage of total revenues kindred healthcare, inc. 40 % 2 % trilogy health services, llc 25 1 in addition to our investments in assets under leases, our skilled nursing segment also includes a mezzanine loan investment to hcr manorcare with a principal balance of $1 billion. the mezzanine loan investment was made on december 21, 2007 and did not have a significant impact on our interest income for the year ended december 31, 2007. we expect the mezzanine loan investment to make a greater contribution to our interest income during 2008. taxation of hcp, inc. hcp, inc. believes that it has operated in such a manner as to qualify for taxation as a reit under sections 856 to 860 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the "code"), commencing with its taxable year ended december 31, 1985, and it intends to continue to operate in such a manner. no assurance can be given that hcp, inc. has operated or will be able to continue to operate in a manner so as to qualify or to remain so qualified. for a description of the risks associated 10 with hcp, inc.'s reit structure and the related tax provisions governing hcp, inc., see "risk factors tax and reit-related risks" below. this summary is qualified in its entirety by the applicable code provisions, rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, and administrative and judicial interpretations thereof. if hcp, inc. qualifies for taxation as a reit, it will generally not be required to pay federal corporate income taxes on the portion of its net income that is currently distributed to stockholders. this treatment substantially eliminates the "double taxation" (i.e., at the corporate and stockholder levels) that generally results from investment in a corporation. however, hcp, inc. will be required to pay federal income tax under certain circumstances. the code defines a reit as a corporation, trust or association (i) which is managed by one or more trustees or directors; (ii) the beneficial ownership of which is evidenced by transferable shares, or by transferable certificates of beneficial interest; (iii) which would be taxable, but for sections 856 through 860 of the code, as a domestic corporation; (iv) which is neither a financial institution nor an insurance company subject to certain provisions of the code; (v) the beneficial ownership of which is held by 100 or more persons; (vi) during the last half of each taxable year not more than 50% in value of the outstanding stock of which is owned, actually or constructively, by five or fewer individuals; and (vii) which meets certain other tests, described below, regarding the amount of its distributions and the nature of its income and assets. the code provides that conditions (i) to (iv), inclusive, must be met during the entire taxable year and that condition (v) must be met during at least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months, or during a proportionate part of a taxable year of less than 12 months. there are presently two gross income requirements. first, at least 75% of hcp, inc.'s gross income (excluding gross income from "prohibited transactions" as defined below) for each taxable year must be derived directly or indirectly from investments relating to real property or mortgages on real property or from certain types of temporary investment income. second, at least 95% of hcp, inc.'s gross income (excluding gross income from prohibited transactions and qualifying hedges) for each taxable year must be derived from income that qualifies under the 75% test and other dividends, interest and gain from the sale or other disposition of stock or securities. a "prohibited transaction" is a sale or other disposition of property (other than foreclosure property) held for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. at the close of each quarter of hcp, inc.'s taxable year, it must also satisfy four tests relating to the nature of its assets. first, at least 75% of the value of hcp, inc.'s total assets must be represented by real estate assets including shares of stock of other reits, certain other stock or debt instruments purchased with the proceeds of a stock offering or long term public debt offering by hcp, inc. (but only for the one-year period after such offering), cash, cash items and government securities. second, not more than 25% of hcp, inc.'s total assets may be represented by securities other than those in the 75% asset class. third, of the investments included in the 25% asset class, the value of any one issuer's securities owned by hcp, inc. may not exceed 5% of the value of hcp, inc.'s total assets and hcp, inc. may not own more than 10% of the vote or value of the securities of a non-reit corporation, other than certain debt securities and interests in taxable reit subsidiaries or qualified reit subsidiaries, each as defined below. fourth, not more than 20% of the value of hcp, inc.'s total assets may be represented by securities of one or more taxable reit subsidiaries. hcp, inc., directly and indirectly, owns interests in various partnerships and limited liability companies. in the case of a reit that is a partner in a partnership or a member of a limited liability company that is treated as a partnership under the code, treasury regulations provide that for purposes of the reit income and asset tests, the reit will be deemed to own its proportionate share of the assets of the partnership or limited liability company (determined in accordance with its capital interest in the entity), subject to special rules related to the 10% asset test and will be deemed to be entitled to the income of the partnership or limited liability company attributable to such share. the 11 ownership of an interest in a partnership or limited liability company by a reit may involve special tax risks, including the challenge by the internal revenue service of the allocations of income and expense items of the partnership or limited liability company, which would affect the computation of taxable income of the reit, and the status of the partnership or limited liability company as a partnership (as opposed to an association taxable as a corporation) for federal income tax purposes. hcp, inc. also owns interests in a number of subsidiaries which are intended to be treated as qualified reit subsidiaries (each a "qrs"). the code provides that such subsidiaries will be ignored for federal income tax purposes and all assets, liabilities and items of income, deduction and credit of such subsidiaries will be treated as the assets, liabilities and such items of hcp, inc. if any partnership, limited liability company or subsidiary in which hcp, inc. owns an interest were treated as a regular corporation (and not as a partnership, subsidiary reit, qrs or taxable reit subsidiary, as the case may be) for federal income tax purposes, hcp, inc. would likely fail to satisfy the reit asset tests described above and would therefore fail to qualify as a reit, unless certain relief provisions apply. except with respect to certain entities in which hcp, inc. owns less than a 10% interest, hcp, inc. believes that each of the partnerships, limited liability companies and subsidiaries (other than taxable reit subsidiaries), in which it owns an interest will be treated for tax purposes as a partnership, disregarded entity (in the case of a 100% owned partnership or limited liability company), reit or qrs, as applicable, although no assurance can be given that the internal revenue service will not successfully challenge the status of any such organization. as of december 31, 2007, hcp, inc. owned interests in 13 subsidiaries which have elected to be taxable reit subsidiaries (each a "trs"). a reit may own any percentage of the voting stock and value of the securities of a corporation which jointly elects with the reit to be a trs, provided certain requirements are met. a trs generally may engage in any business, including the provision of customary or noncustomary services to tenants of its parent reit and of others, except a trs may not manage or operate a hotel or healthcare facility. a trs is treated as a regular corporation and is subject to federal income tax and applicable state income and franchise taxes at regular corporate rates. in addition, a 100% tax may be imposed on a reit if its rental, service or other agreements with its trs, or the trs's agreements with the reit's tenants, are not on arm's-length terms. in order to qualify as a reit, hcp, inc. is required to distribute dividends (other than capital gain dividends) to its stockholders in an amount at least equal to (a) the sum of (i) 90% of its "real estate investment trust taxable income" (computed without regard to the dividends paid deduction and its net capital gain) and (ii) 90% of the net income, if any (after tax), from foreclosure property, minus (b) the sum of certain items of non-cash income. such distributions must be paid in the taxable year to which they relate, or in the following taxable year if declared before hcp, inc. timely files its tax return for such year, if paid on or before the first regular dividend payment date after such declaration and if hcp, inc. so elects and specifies the dollar amount in its tax return. to the extent that hcp, inc. does not distribute all of its net long-term capital gain or distributes at least 90%, but less than 100%, of its "real estate investment trust taxable income," as adjusted, hcp, inc. will be required to pay tax thereon at regular corporate tax rates. furthermore, if hcp, inc. should fail to distribute during each calendar year at least the sum of (i) 85% of its ordinary income for such year, (ii) 95% of its capital gain income for such year and (iii) any undistributed taxable income from prior periods, hcp, inc. would be required to pay a 4% excise tax on the excess of such required distributions over the amounts actually distributed. on july 27, 2007, we formed hcp life science reit, inc. ("hcp life science reit") which will elect to be taxed as a reit under sections 856 through 860 of the code commencing with its initial taxable year ended december 31, 2007. we believe that hcp life science reit has operated in such a manner so as to qualify for taxation as a reit under the code commencing with its initial taxable year and hcp life science reit intends to continue to operate in such a manner. provided that hcp life science reit qualifies as a reit, hcp, inc.'s interest in hcp life science reit is treated as a 12 qualifying real estate asset for purposes of the reit asset requirements and any dividend income or gains derived by hcp, inc. from the stock of hcp life science reit is generally treated as income that qualifies for purposes of the reit income requirements. to qualify as a reit, hcp life science reit must independently satisfy the various reit qualification requirements. if hcp life science reit were to fail to qualify as a reit, it would be treated as a regular taxable corporation and its income would be subject to federal income tax. in addition, a failure of hcp life science reit to qualify as a reit could have an adverse effect on hcp, inc.'s ability to comply with the reit asset and income requirements described above, and thus its ability to qualify as a reit. if hcp, inc. or hcp life science reit fail to qualify for taxation as a reit in any taxable year and certain relief provisions do not apply, the applicable reit will be required to pay tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on its taxable income at regular corporate rates. distributions to stockholders in any year in which it fails to qualify will not be deductible by the applicable reit nor will such distributions be required to be made. unless entitled to relief under specific statutory provisions, the applicable reit will also be disqualified from taxation as a reit for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost. it is not possible to state whether in all circumstances hcp, inc. or hcp life science reit would be entitled to the statutory relief. failure to qualify for even one year could substantially reduce distributions to stockholders and could result in our incurring substantial indebtedness (to the extent borrowings are feasible) or liquidating substantial investments in order to pay the resulting taxes. hcp, inc., hcp life science reit and their stockholders may be required to pay state or local tax in various state or local jurisdictions, including those in which these reits or their stockholders transact business or reside. the state and local tax treatment of these parties may not conform to the federal income tax consequences discussed above. hcp, inc. and hcp life science reit may also be subject to certain taxes applicable to reits, including taxes in lieu of disqualification as a reit, on undistributed income, on income from prohibited transactions, on net income from foreclosure property and on built-in gains from the sale of certain assets acquired from c corporations in tax-free transactions (including the assets of slough estates usa inc. ("seusa") held by hcp life science reit) during a specified time period. government regulation, licensing and enforcement overview the tenants and operators of our properties are typically subject to extensive and extremely complex federal, state and local regulations that overlap in many cases and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. these regulations are wide-ranging and extend to, among other things, federal, state and local regulations relating to operations, facilities, licensing, physicians and other professional staff, insurance and reimbursement, as well as extensive federal and state criminal enforcement. our tenants and operators may find it difficult to comply with this complex healthcare regulatory regime because of a relative lack of regulatory and judicial guidance in many areas and varying enforcement emphases and initiatives at the federal, state and local levels. changes in government regulations and reimbursement, increased regulatory enforcement activity and regulatory non-compliance by our tenants and operators can all have a significant effect on their operations and financial condition and, consequently, can adversely impact us, as detailed below and set forth under "risk factors." our recent acquisition of seusa significantly increased our investment in the life science segment. while our life science tenants include some well-established companies, others are less established and, in some cases, may not yet have a product approved by the fda or other regulatory authorities for commercial sale. in part because of the extensive regulation of healthcare, creating a new pharmaceutical product requires significant investments of time and money; it also entails considerable risk of failure in demonstrating that the product is safe and effective and gaining regulatory approval 13 and market acceptance. further, even after a life science company has gained regulatory approval to market a product, the product still presents regulatory risks. such risks include the possible later discovery of safety concerns, changes in reimbursement for the product, competition from new products, litigation over the validity or infringement of the underlying intellectual property, and ultimately the expiration of patent protection for the product. we seek to mitigate the risk to us resulting from the significant healthcare regulatory risks faced by our tenants and operators by diversifying our portfolio among property types and geographical areas, diversifying our tenant and operator base to limit our exposure to any single entity, and seeking tenants and operators who are not primarily dependent on medicare or medicaid reimbursement for their revenues. as of december 31, 2007, our investments in the senior housing, life science, medical office, hospital and skilled nursing segments represented approximately 34%, 26%, 18%, 12% and 10% of our portfolio, respectively, based on investment amount. for the year ended december 31, 2007, we estimate, based on the information provided from our tenants and operators, that approximately 80% of our tenants' and operators' revenues were derived from sources other than medicare and medicaid. in light of our recent acquisition of seusa and the quality mix of that portfolio, an even greater percentage of our current tenant and operator revenue mix is derived from sources other than medicare and medicaid. while different properties within our portfolio may be more likely subject to certain types of regulation, all healthcare facilities are potentially subject to the full range of regulation and enforcement described more fully below. we expect that the healthcare industry will continue to face increased regulation and pressure in the areas of fraud, waste and abuse, cost control, healthcare management and provision of services, as well as continuing cost control initiatives and reform efforts generally. changes in applicable law, new interpretations of existing laws, changes in payment or reimbursement methodologies and changes in enforcement priorities can all have a material impact on the results of operations and financial condition of our tenants and operators. in addition, each of these factors can lead to reduced or slower growth in reimbursement for certain services provided by our tenants and operators, and reduced demand for certain of the services that they provide. in addition, we believe healthcare services are increasingly being provided on an outpatient basis or in the home, and hospitals and other healthcare providers are increasingly facing the need to provide greater services to uninsured patients, all of which can also adversely affect the profitability of some of our tenants and operators. fraud and abuse enforcement various federal and state laws prohibit a wide variety of fraud and abuse by healthcare providers who participate in, receive payments from, or make or receive referrals for work in connection with government funded healthcare programs, including but not limited to medicare and medicaid. federal and state government agencies have continued rigorous enforcement of criminal and civil anti-fraud and abuse statutes in the healthcare arena. our operators and tenants are subject to many of these laws, and some of them may in the future become the subject of a governmental enforcement action. some of the more commonly used statutes in these enforcement efforts that apply to our tenants and operators are as follows: general criminal statutes. numerous general federal statutes (e.g. theft of public money, mail fraud and wire fraud) prohibit the making or presenting of false claims for reimbursement or payment, and many states have similar criminal statutes. the office of inspector general of the department of health and human services and the united states department of justice have announced renewed efforts to scrutinize billing practices relating to coding of submitted charges and payments to inpatient rehabilitation and psychiatric hospital units. similarly, many states' attorney generals vigorously prosecute these offenses. in combination, the use of these statutes to prosecute individuals as well as corporations has increased in recent years. 14 the federal anti-kickback statute. medicare and medicaid anti-kickback and anti-fraud and abuse amendments are codified under the social security act (the "anti-kickback statute"). the anti-kickback statute prohibits certain business practices related to the payment or receipt of monies or other consideration in connection with the referral of patients whose care would be paid for by medicare and medicaid. the anti-kickback statute provides for criminal and civil penalties, as well as fines and possible debarment from government programs. many states have statutes proscribing payment or receipt of payments in exchange for patient referrals, and often these statutes are broader insofar as they prohibit payments in connection with any third party payors, not just federal programs. the false claims act. the federal false claims act (the "false claims act") prohibits the making or presenting of any false claim for payment to the federal government; it is the civil equivalent to federal criminal provisions prohibiting the submission of false claims to federally funded programs. many states have enacted similar statutes preventing the presentation of a false claim to a state government, and we expect more to do so because the social security act provides a financial incentive for states to enact statutes establishing state level liability. additionally, federal and state false claims laws also permit the action to be brought by a "whistleblower" who may collect a portion of the government's recovery an incentive which increases the frequency of such actions. a successful false claims act case may result in a penalty of three times actual damages, plus additional civil penalties payable to the government, plus reimbursement of the fees of counsel for the whistleblower. the federal physician self-referral prohibition (the "stark law"). the stark law generally prohibits referrals by physicians in the medicare and medicaid programs to entities with which the referring physician or an immediate family member has a financial relationship. the referral prohibitions are broad and cover typical physician referral services, including services related to clinical laboratory, physical therapy, radiology and inpatient and outpatient services. a violation of the stark law may result in a denial of payment, refunds to medicare and medicaid patients, civil monetary penalties ranging between $15,000 to $100,000, depending upon the egregiousness of the offense, and debarment. the civil monetary penalties law. the civil monetary penalties law prohibits the knowing presentation of a claim for certain healthcare services that is false or fraudulent. the penalties include a monetary civil penalty of up to $10,000 for each item or service, $15,000 for each individual with respect to whom false or misleading information was given, as well as treble damages for the total amount of remuneration claimed. the health insurance portability and accountability act ("hippa"). hippa establishes many specific standards and rules related to the protection of the privacy and security of health information and the rights of patients to understand how their information will be controlled and used. failure to comply with hippa's provisions may result in the imposition of criminal and civil fines and penalties. medicare and medicaid programs sources of revenue for our tenants and operators include the federal medicare program, state medicaid programs, private insurance carriers, healthcare service plans and health maintenance organizations, among others. efforts to reduce costs by these payors will likely continue, which may result in reduced or slower growth in reimbursement for certain services provided by some of our tenants and operators. in addition, the failure of any of our tenants or operators to comply with various laws and regulations could jeopardize their certification and ability to continue to participate in the medicare and medicaid programs. medicaid programs differ from state to state, but they are all subject to federally-imposed requirements. at least 50% of the funds available under these programs are provided by the federal government under a matching program. medicaid programs generally pay for acute and rehabilitative care based on reasonable costs at fixed rates; skilled nursing facilities are generally reimbursed using fixed daily rates. medicaid payments are generally below retail prices, and 15 the deficit reduction act of 2005 (the "dra") may further reduce medicaid reimbursement, as the dra included cuts of approximately $4.8 billion over five years to the medicaid program. increasingly, states have introduced managed care contracting techniques into the administration of medicaid programs. such mechanisms could have the impact of reducing utilization of, and reimbursement to, facilities. other third-party payors in various states base payments on costs, retail rates or, increasingly, negotiated rates. negotiated rates can include discounts from normal charges, fixed daily rates and prepaid per patient rates. furthermore, federal laws and regulations, including the medicare conditions of participation, require participating healthcare providers and hospitals to assure that claims for reimbursement are medically reasonable and necessary, meet professionally recognized standards of healthcare and are supported by evidence of necessity and quality. cms administers the medicare conditions of participation, reviews submissions and investigates complaints about the quality of care. cms has the ability to deny payment and recommend debarment from the medicaid program. this utilization review conducted by cms may materially impact the operations of a healthcare facility that receives complaints as to cost or quality of service. healthcare facilities certain healthcare facilities in our portfolio are subject to extensive federal, state and local licensure, certification and inspection laws and regulations. further, various licenses and permits are required to dispense narcotics, operate pharmacies, handle radioactive materials and operate equipment. failure to comply with any of these laws could result in loss of accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension or decertification from federal and state healthcare programs, loss of license or closure of the facility. such actions may have an adverse effect on the revenues of the tenants and operators of properties owned by or mortgaged to us, and therefore can adversely impact us. certificate of need requirements there is an increase in the number of states that require approval for construction, expansion and closure of healthcare facilities. the approval process of some of these states involves certificates of need, which are issued by the state in order to contain rising healthcare costs. these certificates of need are triggered by changes in bed capacity or services, capital expenditures above a certain amount or other building issues. the approval process may impact some of our tenants' and operators' abilities to grow and change their businesses, which may have an effect on their respective revenues or operations and hence adversely impact us. entrance fee communities certain of the senior housing facilities mortgaged to or owned by us are operated as entrance fee communities. generally, an entrance fee is an upfront fee or consideration paid by a resident, a portion of which may be refundable, in exchange for some form of long-term benefit. some of the entrance fee communities are subject to significant state regulatory oversight, including, for example, oversight of each facility's financial condition, establishment and monitoring of reserve requirements and other financial restrictions, the right of residents to cancel their contracts within a specified period of time, lien rights in favor of the residents, restrictions on change of ownership and similar matters. such oversight and the rights of residents within these entrance fee communities may have an effect on the revenues or operations of our tenants and operators and therefore may adversely impact us. 16 california senate bill 1953 our hospital located in tarzana, california is affected by state of california senate bill 1953 ("sb 1953"), which requires certain seismic safety building standards for acute care hospital facilities. this hospital is operated by tenet under a lease expiring in february 2009. we are currently reviewing the sb 1953 compliance of this hospital, multiple plans of action to cause such compliance, the estimated time for completing the same, and the cost of performing necessary remediation of the property. for a more detailed description of the impact of sb 1953 on us, see "item 3. legal proceedings" below. americans with disabilities act (the "ada") our properties must comply with the ada to the extent that such properties are "public accommodations" as defined in that statute. the ada may require removal of structural barriers to access by persons with disabilities in certain public areas of our properties where such removal is readily achievable. to date, no notices of substantial noncompliance with the ada have been received by us. accordingly, we have not incurred substantial capital expenditures to address ada concerns. in some instances, our tenants and operators may be responsible for any additional amounts that may be required to make facilities ada-compliant. noncompliance with the ada could result in imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. the obligation to make readily achievable accommodations is an ongoing one, and we continue to assess our properties and make alterations as appropriate in this respect. environmental matters a wide variety of federal, state and local environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations affect healthcare facility operations. these complex federal and state statutes, and their enforcement, involve myriad regulations, many of which involve strict liability on the part of the potential offender. some of these federal and state statutes may directly impact us. under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner of real property or a secured lender, such as us, may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances at, under or disposed of in connection with such property, as well as other potential costs relating to hazardous or toxic substances (including government fines and damages for injuries to persons and adjacent property). the cost of any required remediation, removal, fines or personal or property damages and the owner's or secured lender's liability therefore could exceed or impair the value of the property, and/or the assets of the owner or secured lender. in addition, the presence of such substances, or the failure to properly dispose of or remediate such substances, may adversely affect the owner's ability to sell or rent such property or to borrow using such property as collateral which, in turn, could reduce our revenues. for a description of the risks associated with environmental matters, see "risk factors." employees at december 31, 2007, we had 151 full-time employees and two part-time employees, none of whom are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. we consider our relations with our employees to be good. item 1a. risk factors before deciding whether to invest in hcp, you should carefully consider the risks described below as well as the risks described elsewhere in this report, which risks are incorporated by reference into this section. the risks and uncertainties described herein are not the only ones facing us and there may be additional risks that we do not presently know of or that we currently consider not likely to have a significant impact on us. all of these risks could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 17 risks related to our business we rely on external sources of capital to fund future capital needs, and, if our access to such capital is limited or on unfavorable terms, we may not be able to meet commitments as they become due or make future investments necessary to grow our business. in order to qualify as a reit under the code, hcp, inc. is required, among other things, to distribute to its stockholders each year at least 90% of its reit taxable income, excluding capital gains. because of this distribution requirement, we may not be able to fund all future capital needs, including capital needs in connection with acquisitions and development activities, from cash retained from operations. as a result, we rely on external sources of capital. if we are unable to obtain needed capital at all or only on unfavorable terms from these sources, we might not be able to make the investments needed to grow our business or meet our obligations and commitments as they mature, which could negatively affect the credit ratings of our debt and preferred securities. our access to capital depends upon a number of factors, over which we have little or no control, including: the performance of the national and global economies generally; competition in the healthcare industry; issues facing the healthcare industry, including regulations and government reimbursement policies; tenants' and operators' operating costs; the ratings of our debt and preferred securities; our degree of leverage; general availability of credit and market conditions, including interest rates; the market's perception of our growth potential; the market value of our properties; changes in rules or practices governing our financial and sec reporting; civil disturbances, natural disasters or acts of war; our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions; and the market price of the shares of our capital stock. adverse changes in our credit ratings could impair our ability to obtain additional debt and preferred stock financing on favorable terms, if at all, and significantly reduce the market price of our securities, including our common stock. we currently have a credit rating of baa3 (stable) from moody's investors service ("moody's"), bbb (negative outlook) from standard &amp; poor's ratings service ("s&amp;p") and bbb (stable) from fitch ratings ("fitch") on our senior unsecured debt securities, and ba1 (stable) from moody's, bbb- (negative outlook) from s&amp;p and bbb- (stable) from fitch on our preferred securities. the credit ratings of our senior unsecured debt and preferred securities are based on our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position and other factors employed by the credit rating agencies in their rating analyses of us. our credit ratings can affect the amount and type of capital we can access, as well as the terms of any financings we may obtain. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings and in the event that our current credit ratings deteriorate, we would likely incur higher borrowing costs and may encounter difficulty in obtaining additional financing. also, a downgrade in our credit ratings would trigger additional costs or other potentially negative consequences under our current and future credit facilities and debt instruments. 18 because we depend on external sources of capital to fund our acquisition and development activity, adverse changes to our credit ratings could negatively impact our acquisition and development activity, future growth, financial condition and the market price of our securities. we have incurred additional indebtedness in connection with recent acquisitions and we anticipate we may have to incur further indebtedness to implement our business strategy. in addition, from time to time we mortgage our properties to secure payment of indebtedness. our increased level of indebtedness could materially adversely affect us in many ways, including reducing funds available for other business purposes and reducing our operational flexibility. our indebtedness as of december 31, 2007 was approximately $7.5 billion, including $1.35 billion that remains outstanding on a bridge loan from our recently completed acquisition of seusa and approximately $900 million borrowed on our line of credit in connection with our mezzanine loan investment in hcr manorcare. as part of our business strategy, we actively seek attractive acquisition candidates to grow our business. our recent acquisitions of seusa, cnl retirement properties, inc. ("crp") and cnl retirement corp. ("crc") are examples of the execution of this strategy. we may acquire healthcare facilities through various structures, including transactions involving portfolios, single assets, joint ventures and acquisitions of all or substantially all of the securities or assets of other reits or similar real estate entities. we anticipate that our acquisitions will be financed through a combination of methods, including proceeds from equity and/or debt offerings, sales of properties, borrowings under our credit facilities and other incurrence or assumption of indebtedness, including secured indebtedness. any significant acquisition or series of acquisitions financed by the incurrence or assumption of indebtedness may cause us to become more leveraged, which, in turn, could negatively affect the credit ratings of our debt and preferred securities and increase the demands on our cash resources. greater demands on our cash resources may reduce funds available to us to pay dividends, conduct development activities, or make capital expenditures and acquisitions. increased indebtedness can also make us more vulnerable to a downturn in business or the economy generally and create competitive disadvantages for us compared to other companies with relatively lower debt levels. increased future debt service obligations may limit our operational flexibility, including our ability to finance or refinance our properties, contribute properties to joint ventures or sell properties as needed. further, if we are unable to meet our mortgage payments, then the encumbered properties could be foreclosed upon or transferred to the mortgagee with a consequent loss of income and asset value. a foreclosure on one or more of our properties could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. covenants in our credit agreements and other debt instruments limit our operational flexibility and a covenant breach could materially adversely affect our operations. the terms of our credit agreements and other indebtedness require us to comply with a number of customary financial and other covenants, such as maintaining debt service coverage, leverage ratios and tangible net worth requirements. our continued ability to incur indebtedness and operate in general is subject to compliance with these financial and other covenants, which limit our operational flexibility. breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable indebtedness, in addition to any other indebtedness cross-defaulted against such instruments, even if we satisfy our payment obligations. our future ability to satisfy current or prospective insurance requirements and secure future insurance on commercially reasonable terms could cause us to default under certain covenants. covenants that limit our operational flexibility as well as defaults resulting from a breach of the covenants in our debt instruments could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 19 our issuance of additional shares of common or preferred stock, warrants or debt securities may dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders and reduce the market price for our shares. as of december 31, 2007, we had approximately 216.8 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding. we cannot predict the effect, if any, that potential future sales of our common or preferred stock, warrants or debt securities, or the availability of our securities for future sale, will have on the market price of our outstanding securities, including our common stock. sales of substantial amounts of our common or preferred stock, warrants or debt securities convertible into, or exercisable or exchangeable for, common stock in the public market or the perception that such sales might occur could reduce the market price of our common stock. the sales of securities convertible into our common stock could dilute the interests of existing common stockholders and may cause a decrease in the market price of our common stock. additionally, we maintain equity incentive plans for our employees. we have historically made grants of stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units to our employees under such plans, and we expect to continue to do so. as of december 31, 2007, there were options to purchase approximately 4.2 million shares of our common stock outstanding and exercisable, approximately 489,000 unvested shares of restricted stock issued and outstanding and approximately 788,000 unvested restricted stock units issued and outstanding under our equity incentive plans. an increase in interest rates would increase our interest costs on existing variable rate debt and new debt, and could adversely impact our ability to refinance existing debt, sell assets and our acquisition and development activity. as of december 31, 2007, we had approximately $2.8 billion of variable interest rate indebtedness, which constitutes 37% of our overall indebtedness. this variable rate debt had a weighted average interest rate of approximately 5.9% per annum. we may incur more variable interest rate indebtedness in the future. if interest rates increase, so will our interest costs for our existing variable interest rate debt and any new debt. this increased cost could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, decrease our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt, decrease our ability to make distributions to our security holders and make the financing of any acquisition and development activity more costly. further, rising interest rates could limit our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures, or cause us to pay higher interest rates upon refinancing. in addition, an increase in interest rates could decrease the amount third parties are willing to pay for our assets, thereby limiting our ability to reposition our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. our decision to hedge against interest rate changes may have a material adverse effect on our financial results and condition, and there is no assurance that our hedges will be effective. we may seek to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements that involve risk, including the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes, that the amount of income that we may earn from hedging transactions may be limited by federal tax provisions governing reits, and that these arrangements may result in higher interest rates than we would otherwise have. moreover, no amount of hedging activity can completely insulate us from the risks associated with changes in interest rates. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make distributions to our security holders. we may not be able to sell properties when we desire because real estate investments are illiquid. real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly. in addition, some of our properties serve as collateral for our secured debt obligations and cannot be readily sold. we may not be able to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changes in the real estate market. this inability to respond to 20 changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, and in particular our ability to service our debt and pay dividends on our preferred stock. the real estate market is affected by many factors that are beyond our control, including: adverse changes in national and local economic and market conditions; changes in interest rates and in the availability, costs and terms of financing; changes in laws, regulations, fiscal policies, zoning and other ordinances; the costs of complying with existing and new laws and regulations; the ongoing need for capital improvements, particularly in older structures; changes in operating expenses; and civil unrest, acts of war and natural disasters, including earthquakes and floods, which may result in uninsured and underinsured losses. we cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms set by us, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. we also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property or portfolio of properties. in addition, there are provisions under the federal income tax laws applicable to reits that may limit our ability to recognize the full economic benefit from a sale of our assets. these factors and any others that would impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. a small number of operators and tenants, two of whom are experiencing significant legal, financial and regulatory difficulties, account for a large percentage of our real estate investment and revenues. during the year ended december 31, 2007, approximately 37% of our portfolio, based on our total revenues, was operated or leased by five companies, consisting of sunrise senior living inc. (16%), brookdale senior living inc. (7%), tenet healthcare corporation (6%), hca, inc. (6%) and amgen inc. (2%). in addition, during the year ended december 31, 2007, we earned interest income of $26.2 million and $0.6 million in connection with investments in marketable debt securities and loans, issued by hca and brookdale, respectively. the failure or inability of any of these operators or tenants to pay their obligations to us could materially reduce our revenues and net income, which could in turn reduce the amount of dividends we pay and cause our stock price to decline. according to public disclosures, tenet and sunrise are experiencing significant legal, financial and regulatory difficulties. we cannot predict with certainty the impact, if any, of the outcome of these uncertainties on our consolidated financial statements. our disposition of assets, sales of securities, receipt of loan payments and creation of joint ventures may require us to reinvest proceeds quickly to earn attractive returns, and we may face competitive risks related to the reinvestment of those sale proceeds. from time to time, we will have cash available from the proceeds of sales of our securities, principal and/or interest payments on our mortgages, mezzanine loans and other receivables, proceeds from the creation of joint ventures and the sale of joint venture interests, and the sale of properties, including non-elective dispositions under the terms of leases or financial support arrangements. in order to maintain our current financial results and continue earning attractive returns, we expect to have to reinvest these proceeds on a timely basis. we compete for real estate investments with a broad variety of potential investors. this competition for attractive investments may negatively affect our ability to make timely investments on terms acceptable to us. 21 we have investments in mezzanine loans, which are subject to a greater risk of loss than loans secured by the underlying real estate. at december 31, 2007, we had mezzanine loan investments with a carrying value of $900 million. our mezzanine loans generally take the form of subordinated loans secured by a pledge of the ownership interests of either the entity owning the property or a pledge of the ownership interests of the entity that owns the interest in the entities owning the properties. these types of investments involve a higher degree of risk than long-term senior mortgage loans secured by income producing real property because the investment may have a lesser likelihood of being repaid in full as a result of foreclosure by the senior lender. in the event of a bankruptcy of the entity providing the pledge of its ownership interests as security, we may not have full recourse to the assets of such entity, or the assets of the entity may not be sufficient to fully repay our mezzanine loans. if a borrower defaults on our mezzanine loans or debt senior to our loans, or in the event of a borrower bankruptcy, our mezzanine loans will be satisfied only after the senior debt is paid and consistent with bankruptcy rules. as a result, we may not recover some or all of our investment. in addition, mezzanine loans may have higher loan-to-value ratios than conventional mortgage loans, resulting in less equity in the property and increasing the risk of loss of principal. if our mezzanine loans are not repaid, or are only partially repaid, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. credit enhancements to our leases may terminate or be inadequate, or the provider of a credit enhancement may be unable to fulfill its payment obligations to us, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. some of our leases have credit enhancement provisions, such as guarantees or shortfall reserves, for minimum rent payments payable to us. these credit enhancement provisions may terminate at either a specific time during the lease term or once the property satisfies defined operating hurdles like net operating income. these provisions may also have limits on the overall amount of the credit enhancement. after the termination of a credit enhancement, or in the event that the maximum limit of a credit enhancement is reached, we may only look to the tenant or operator to make lease payments. some of our tenants are thinly capitalized entities that rely on the results of operations generated by the properties to fund rent obligations under their lease. in the event that a credit enhancement has expired or the maximum limit has been reached, or in the event that a provider of a credit enhancement is unable to meet its payment obligations, our results of operations and cash available for distribution could be materially adversely affected if our properties are unable to generate sufficient funds from operations to meet minimum rent payments and the tenants or operators do not otherwise have the resources to make those rent payments. we face risks associated with property development that can render a project less profitable or not at all and, under certain circumstances, prevent completion of development activities once undertaken, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. large-scale, ground-up development of healthcare properties presents additional risks for us, including risks that: a development opportunity may be abandoned after expending significant resources resulting in the loss of deposits or failure to recover expenses already incurred; the development and construction costs of a project may exceed original estimates due to increased interest rates and higher materials, transportation, labor, leasing or other costs, which could make the completion of the development project less profitable; construction and/or permanent financing may not be available on favorable terms or at all; 22 the project may not be completed on schedule and can result in increases in construction costs and debt service expenses as a result of a variety of factors that are beyond our control, including: natural disasters, labor conditions, material shortages, regulatory hurdles, civil unrest and acts of war; and occupancy rates and rents at a newly completed property may not meet expected levels and could be insufficient to make the property profitable. properties developed or acquired for development likely generate little or no cash flow from the date of acquisition through the date of completion of development. in addition, new development activities, regardless of whether or not they are ultimately successful, may require a substantial portion of our management's time and attention. these risks could result in substantial unanticipated delays or expenses and, under certain circumstances, could prevent completion of development activities once undertaken, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, and thus our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to stockholders. competition may make it difficult to identify and purchase, or develop, suitable healthcare facilities at a favorable cost or to raise funds for such acquisitions or development activities, and we may consequently be unable to continue to grow through these activities. growing through acquisitions is a part of our business strategy and requires us to identify suitable candidates that meet our acquisition criteria. recently, we acquired a life science development pipeline to provide an opportunity for further growth. the development, acquisition and financing of healthcare facilities at favorable costs are highly competitive. when we attempt to develop, finance or acquire properties, we face competition from other reits, investment companies, private equity and hedge fund investors, healthcare operators, lenders, developers and other institutional investors, some of whom have greater resources and lower costs of capital than us. increased competition makes it more challenging for us to identify and successfully capitalize on opportunities that meet our business goals. if we cannot capitalize on our development pipeline, identify and purchase a sufficient quantity of healthcare facilities at favorable prices, or if we are unable to finance such acquisitions on commercially favorable terms, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. because of the unique and specific improvements required for healthcare facilities, we may be required to incur substantial development and renovation costs to make certain of our properties suitable for other operators and tenants, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. healthcare facilities are typically highly customized and may not be easily adapted to non-healthcare-related uses. the improvements generally required to conform a property to healthcare use, such as upgrading electrical, gas and plumbing infrastructure, are costly and often times tenant-specific. a new or replacement operator or tenant may require different features in a property, depending on that operator's or tenant's particular operations. if a current operator or tenant is unable to pay rent and vacates a property, we may incur substantial expenditures to modify a property before we are able to re-lease the space to another tenant. also, if the property needs to be renovated to accommodate multiple operators or tenants, we may incur substantial expenditures before we are able to re-lease the space. consequently, our properties may not be suitable for lease to traditional office or other healthcare tenants without significant expenditures or renovations, which costs may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 23 our use of joint ventures may limit our flexibility with jointly owned investments and could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we intend to develop and/or acquire properties in joint ventures with other persons or entities when circumstances warrant the use of these structures. we currently have 11 joint ventures that are not consolidated with our financial statements. our aggregate investments in these joint ventures represented approximately 2% of our total assets at december 31, 2007. our participation in joint ventures is subject to the risks that: we could experience an impasse on certain decisions because we do not have sole decision-making authority, which could require us to expend additional resources on resolving such impasses or potential disputes; our joint venture partners could have investment goals that are not consistent with our investment objectives, including the timing, terms and strategies for any investments; our joint venture partners might become bankrupt, fail to fund their share of required capital contributions or fail to fulfill their obligations as a joint venture partner, which may require us to infuse our own capital into the venture on behalf of the partner despite other competing uses for such capital; and our joint venture partners may have competing interests in our markets that could create conflict of interest issues. from time to time, we acquire other companies and need to integrate them into our existing business. if we are unable to successfully integrate the operations of acquired companies or they fail to perform as expected, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. acquisitions require the integration of companies that have previously operated independently. successful integration of the operations of these companies depends primarily on our ability to consolidate operations, systems, procedures, properties and personnel and to eliminate redundancies and costs. acquisitions through mergers also pose some risks, including unanticipated liabilities, unexpected costs and the diversion of management's attention to the integration of our operations with those of the target companies. we cannot assure you that we will be able to integrate the operations of the companies that we have acquired, or may acquire in the future, without encountering difficulties. potential difficulties associated with acquisitions include the loss of key employees, the disruption of our ongoing business or that of the acquired entity, or possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies. estimated cost savings in connection with acquisitions are typically projected to come from various areas that our management identifies through the due diligence and integration planning process; yet, our target companies and their properties may fail to perform as expected. inaccurate assumptions regarding future rental or occupancy rates could result in overly optimistic estimates of future revenues. similarly, we may underestimate future operating expenses or the costs necessary to bring properties up to standards established for their intended use or market position. if we have difficulties with any of these areas, or if we later discover additional liabilities or experience unforeseen costs relating to our acquired companies, we might not achieve the economic benefits we expect from our acquisitions, and this may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. required regulatory approvals can delay or prohibit transfers of our healthcare facilities. because transfers of healthcare facilities may be subject to regulatory approvals not required for transfers of other types of commercial operations and other types of real estate, there may be delays in transferring operations of our facilities to successor operators or we may be prohibited from 24 transferring operations to a successor operator. if we are unable to transfer properties at times opportune to us, our revenues and operations may suffer. we may be unable to successfully foreclose on the collateral securing our real estate-related loans, and even if we are successful in our foreclosure efforts, we may be unable to successfully operate or occupy the underlying real estate, which may adversely affect our ability to recover our investments. if an operator or tenant defaults under one of our mortgages or mezzanine loans, we may have to foreclose on the loan or protect our interest by acquiring title to the property and thereafter making substantial improvements or repairs in order to maximize the facility's investment potential. operators or tenants may contest enforcement of foreclosure or other remedies, seek bankruptcy protection against our exercise of enforcement or other remedies and/or bring claims for lender liability in response to actions to enforce mortgage obligations. if an operator or tenant seeks bankruptcy protection, the automatic stay provisions of the united states bankruptcy code would preclude us from enforcing foreclosure or other remedies against the operator or tenant unless relief is first obtained from the court having jurisdiction over the bankruptcy case. foreclosure-related costs, high "loan-to-value" ratios or declines in the value of the facility may prevent us from realizing an amount equal to our mortgage or mezzanine loan upon foreclosure. even if we are able to successfully foreclose on the collateral securing our real estate-related loans, we may inherit properties for which we are unable to expeditiously seek tenants or operators, if at all, which would adversely affect our ability to recover our investment. our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we report our financial condition and results of operations, and they may require our management to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. we have identified several accounting policies as being "critical" to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations because they require our management to make particularly subjective or complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because of the likelihood that materially different amounts would be recorded under different conditions or using different assumptions. the risks related to our critical accounting policies are described in detail under "critical accounting policies" in this report. because of the inherent uncertainty of the estimates associated with these critical accounting policies, we cannot provide any assurance that we will not change our estimates, which could cause us to make significant subsequent adjustments to the related amounts recorded, which adjustments could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. pursuant to the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, we are required to provide a report by management on internal control over financial reporting, including management's assessment of the effectiveness of such control. changes to our business will necessitate ongoing changes to our internal control systems and processes. internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. in addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business, results of 25 operations and financial condition could be materially adversely harmed, we could fail to meet our reporting obligations and there could be a material adverse effect on our stock price. loss of our key personnel could temporarily disrupt our operations and adversely affect us. we are dependent on the efforts of our executive officers. although certain of our executive officers have employment agreements with us, we cannot assure you that they will remain employed with us. the loss or limited availability of the services of any of our executive officers, or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could, at least temporarily, have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and be negatively perceived in the capital markets. we may experience uninsured or underinsured losses, which could result in the loss of all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property or decrease anticipated future revenues. we maintain comprehensive insurance coverage on our properties with terms, conditions, limits and deductibles that we believe are adequate and appropriate given the relative risk and costs of such coverage. however, a large number of our properties are located in areas exposed to earthquake, windstorm and flood and may be subject to other losses. in particular, the company's life science portfolio is concentrated in areas known to be subject to earthquake activity. the company currently purchases earthquake coverage with a $300 million per occurrence and a $300 million annual aggregate limit and subject to a deductible of 5% of the value of the affected property. while we purchase insurance for earthquake, windstorm and flood that we believe is adequate in light of current industry practice and analysis prepared by outside consultants, there is no assurance that such insurance will fully cover such losses. these losses can decrease our anticipated revenues from a property and result in the loss of all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property. the insurance market for such exposures can be very volatile and we may be unable to purchase the limits and terms we desire on a commercially reasonable basis in the future. in addition, there are certain exposures where insurance is not purchased as we do not believe it is economically feasible to do so. environmental compliance costs and liabilities associated with our real estate related investments may materially impair the value of those investments. under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, as a current or previous owner of real estate, we may be required to investigate and clean up certain hazardous substances released at a property, and may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage and for investigation and cleanup costs incurred by the third parties in connection with the contamination. in addition, some environmental laws create a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and the costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. although we (i) currently carry environmental insurance on our properties in an amount and subject to deductibles that we believe are commercially reasonable, and (ii) generally require our operators and tenants to undertake to indemnify us for environmental liabilities they cause, such liabilities could exceed the amount of our insurance, the financial ability of the tenant or operator to indemnify us or the value of the contaminated property. the presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. as the owner of a site, we may also be liable under common law to third parties for damages and injuries resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the site. we may also experience environmental liabilities arising from conditions not known to us. from time to time, we may invest in real estate, or mortgage loans secured by real estate, with environmental problems that materially impair the value of the real estate. there are substantial risks associated with such an investment and we have only limited experience in investing in real estate with environmental liabilities. 26 risks related to our operators and tenants operators and tenants that fail to comply with the requirements of governmental reimbursement programs such as medicare or medicaid, licensing and certification requirements, fraud and abuse regulations or new legislative developments may cease to operate or be unable to meet their financial and contractual obligations to us. our operators and tenants are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations that are subject to frequent and substantial changes (sometimes applied retroactively) resulting from legislation, adoption of rules and regulations, and administrative and judicial interpretations of existing law. the ultimate timing or effect of these changes cannot be predicted. these changes may have a dramatic effect on our operators' and tenants' costs of doing business and on the amount of reimbursement by both government and other third-party payors. the failure of any of our operators or tenants to comply with these laws, requirements and regulations could adversely affect their ability to meet their financial and contractual obligations to us. regulations that affect our operators and tenants include the following: fraud and abuse laws and regulations. there are various extremely complex and largely uninterpreted federal and state laws that govern a wide array of referrals, relationships and arrangements, and prohibit fraud by healthcare providers. these laws and regulations include criminal provisions that prohibit filing false claims or making false statements to receive payment or certification under medicare and medicaid, or failing to refund overpayments or improper payments. governments are devoting increasing attention and resources to anti-fraud initiatives against healthcare providers. in addition, the federal false claims act allows a private individual with knowledge of fraud to bring a claim on behalf of the federal government and earn a percentage of the federal government's recovery. because of these incentives, these so-called "whistleblower" suits have become more frequent. the violation of any of these laws or regulations by an operator or tenant may result in the imposition of fines or other penalties that could jeopardize that operator's or tenant's ability to make lease or mortgage payments to us or to continue operating its facility. medicare and medicaid. during 2007, our skilled nursing segment accounted for approximately 4% of our revenues. a portion of our skilled nursing operators' revenues is derived from governmentally-funded reimbursement programs, primarily medicare and medicaid, and are consequently subject to the potential adverse effects of decreased reimbursement rates in these programs. failure to maintain certification and accreditation in these programs would result in a loss of funding from such programs. loss of certification or accreditation could cause the revenues of our operators and borrowers to decline, potentially jeopardizing their ability to meet their obligations to us. in that event, our revenues from those sources could be reduced, which could in turn cause the value of our affected properties or investments to decline. state licensing and medicare and medicaid laws also require operators of nursing homes and assisted living facilities to comply with extensive standards governing operations. federal and state agencies administering those laws regularly inspect such facilities and investigate complaints. our operators, borrowers and their managers receive notices of potential sanctions and remedies from time to time, and such sanctions have been imposed from time to time on facilities operated by them. if they are unable to cure deficiencies, sanctions may be imposed that reduce our operators' and borrowers' revenues or cause them to cease operations, thereby potentially jeopardizing their ability to meet their obligations to us. licensing and certification. our operators and tenants and their respective facilities are subject to regulatory and licensing requirements of federal, state and local authorities and are periodically audited by them to confirm compliance. failure to obtain licensure or loss or suspension of licensure would prevent a facility from operating or result in a suspension of 27 reimbursement payments until all licensure issues have been resolved and the necessary licenses obtained or reinstated. our skilled nursing facilities require governmental approval, in the form of a certificate of need that generally varies by state and is subject to change, prior to the addition or construction of new beds, the addition of services or certain capital expenditures. some of our facilities may be unable to satisfy current and future certificate of need requirements and may for this reason be unable to continue operating in the future. in such event, our revenues from those facilities could be reduced or eliminated for an extended period of time or permanently. life science regulation. the process for identifying, manufacturing, testing and gaining approval to market pharmaceutical products is long and entails great risk and expense. some of our life science tenants must invest significant amounts of cash to bring pharmaceutical products to market, must gain government approvals prior to selling their products, face risks that government reforms, in particular decreases in reimbursement rates under medicare and medicaid, will lead to lower revenues for sales of their products, and face challenges in establishing and protecting their intellectual property. we cannot assure you that our life science tenants will be successful in their businesses. if these tenants' businesses are adversely affected, they may have difficulty meeting their financial and contractual obligations to us. legislative and regulatory developments. each year, legislative proposals are introduced or proposed in congress and in some state legislatures that would affect major changes in the healthcare system, either nationally or at the state level. we cannot accurately predict whether any proposals will be adopted or, if adopted, what effect, if any, these proposals would have on our operators and tenants and, thus, our business. increased competition as well as increased operating costs have resulted in lower net revenues for some of our operators and tenants and may affect their ability to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us. the healthcare industry is highly competitive and can become more competitive in the future. the occupancy levels at, and rental income from, our facilities is dependent on the ability of our operators and tenants to compete with entities that have substantial capital resources. these entities compete with other operators and tenants on a number of different levels, including: the quality of care provided, reputation, the physical appearance of a facility, price, the range of services offered, family preference, alternatives for healthcare delivery, the supply of competing properties, physicians, staff, referral sources, location, and the size and demographics of the population in the surrounding area. private, federal and state payment programs and the effect of laws and regulations may also have a significant influence on the profitability of the properties and their tenants. our operators and tenants also compete with numerous other companies providing similar healthcare services or alternatives such as home health agencies, life care at home, community-based service programs, retirement communities and convalescent centers. such competition, which has intensified due to overbuilding in some segments in which we invest, has caused the fill-up rate of newly constructed buildings to slow and the monthly rate that many newly built and previously existing facilities were able to obtain for their services to decrease. we cannot be certain that the operators and tenants of all of our facilities will be able to achieve occupancy and rate levels that will enable them to meet all of their obligations to us. further, many competing companies may have resources and attributed that are superior to those of our operators and tenants. thus, our operators and tenants may encounter increased competition in the future that could limit their ability to attract residents or expand their businesses which could materially adversely affect their ability meet their financial and other contractual obligation to us, potentially decreasing our revenues and increasing our collection and dispute costs. 28 our operators and tenants may not procure the necessary insurance to adequately insure against losses. our leases generally require our tenants and operators to secure and maintain comprehensive liability and property insurance that covers us, as well as the tenants and operators. some types of losses may not be adequately insured by our tenants and operators. should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could incur liability or lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenues from the property. in such an event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. we continually review the insurance maintained by our tenants and operators. however, we cannot assure you that material uninsured losses, or losses in excess of insurance proceeds, will not occur in the future. our operators and tenants are faced with litigation and rising liability and insurance costs that may affect their ability to make their lease or mortgage payments. in some states, advocacy groups have been created to monitor the quality of care at healthcare facilities and these groups have brought litigation against the operators and tenants of such facilities. also, in several instances, private litigation by patients has succeeded in winning very large damage awards for alleged abuses. the effect of this litigation and potential litigation has been to materially increase the costs incurred by our operators and tenants for monitoring and reporting quality of care compliance. in addition, their cost of liability and medical malpractice insurance can be very significant and may increase so long as the present healthcare litigation environment continues. cost increases could cause our operators to be unable to make their lease or mortgage payments or fail to purchase the appropriate liability and malpractice insurance, potentially decreasing our revenues and increasing our collection and litigation costs. moreover, to the extent we are required to take back the affected facilities from our operators and tenants, our revenues from those facilities could be reduced or eliminated for an extended period of time. in addition, as a result of our ownership of healthcare facilities, we may be named as a defendant in lawsuits allegedly arising from the actions of our operators or tenants, which may require unanticipated expenditures on our part. we face potential adverse effects from our major operators' or tenants' bankruptcies or insolvencies. the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major operator or tenant may adversely affect the income produced by our properties. our tenants and operators could file for bankruptcy protection or become insolvent in the future. we cannot evict a tenant or operator solely because of its bankruptcy filing. for example, a debtor-lessee may reject its lease with us in a bankruptcy proceeding. in such a case, our claim against the debtor-lessee for unpaid and future rents would be limited by the statutory cap of the united states bankruptcy code. this statutory cap might be substantially less than the remaining rent actually owed under the lease and it is quite likely that any claim we might have for unpaid rent would not be paid in full. in addition, a debtor-lessee may assert in a bankruptcy proceeding that its lease should be re-characterized as a financing agreement. if this claim is successful, our rights and remedies as a lender, compared to as a landlord, would generally be more limited. our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected as a result of major operators' or tenants' bankruptcies or insolvencies. 29 we have recently acquired properties leased to tenants in the life science industry. these tenants face high levels of regulation, expense and uncertainty that may adversely affect their ability to make payments to us and, consequently, materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. life science tenants, particularly those involved in developing and marketing pharmaceutical products, are subject to certain unique risks, as follows: some of our tenants require significant outlays of funds for the research, development and clinical testing of their products and technologies. if private investors, the government or other sources of funding are unavailable to support such activities, a tenant's business may be adversely affected or fail. the research, development, clinical testing, manufacture and marketing of some of our tenants' products require federal, state and foreign regulatory approvals. the approval process is typically long, expensive and uncertain. even if our tenants have sufficient funds to seek approvals, one or all of their products may fail to obtain the required regulatory approvals on a timely basis or at all. furthermore, some tenants may only have a small number of products under development. if one product fails to receive the required approvals at any stage of development, it could significantly adversely affect our tenant's entire business and its ability to make payments to us. our tenants with marketable products may be adversely affected by healthcare reform efforts and the reimbursement policies of government or private healthcare payors. our tenants may be unable to adequately protect their intellectual property under patent, copyright or trade secret laws. failure to do so could jeopardize their ability to profit from their efforts and to protect their products from competition. we cannot assure you that our life science tenants will be successful in their businesses. if our tenants' businesses are adversely affected, they may have difficulty making payments to us, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. tax and reit-related risks loss of hcp, inc.'s tax status as a reit would substantially reduce our funds available and would have material adverse consequences to us. hcp, inc. currently operates and has operated commencing with its taxable year ended december 31, 1985 in a manner that is intended to allow it to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes under the code. in addition, as described below, we own the stock of hcp life science reit which will elect to be treated as a reit commencing with its initial taxable year ending december 31, 2007. qualification as a reit involves the application of highly technical and complex code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect hcp, inc.'s ability and the ability of hcp life science reit to qualify as reits. if hcp life science reit were to fail to qualify as a reit, hcp, inc. also would fail to qualify as a reit unless hcp, inc. (or hcp life science reit) could make use of certain relief provisions. to qualify as reits, hcp, inc. and hcp life science reit must each satisfy a number of asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements. for example, to qualify as a reit, at least 95% of hcp, inc.'s gross income in any year must be derived from qualifying sources, and hcp, inc. must make distributions to its stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of its reit taxable income, excluding capital gains. in addition, new legislation, treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may adversely affect our investors if such future events affected hcp, inc.'s ability to 30 qualify as a reit for tax purposes. although we believe that hcp, inc. and hcp life science reit have been organized and have operated in such manner, we can give no assurance that hcp, inc. or hcp life science reit have qualified or will continue to qualify as a reit for tax purposes. if hcp, inc. loses its reit status, we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available to make payments of principal and interest on the debt securities we issue and to make distributions to stockholders. if hcp, inc. fails to qualify as a reit: it would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing its taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates; it also could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and unless hcp, inc. is entitled to relief under statutory provisions, it could not elect to be subject to tax as a reit for four taxable years following the year during which it were disqualified. in addition, if hcp, inc. fails to qualify as a reit, all distributions to stockholders would be subject to tax as regular corporate dividends to the extent of hcp, inc.'s current and accumulated earnings and profits and it would not be required to make distributions to stockholders. as a result of all these factors, hcp, inc.'s failure to qualify as a reit also could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and could materially adversely affect the value of our common stock. certain property transfers may generate prohibited transaction income, resulting in a penalty tax on gain attributable to the transaction. from time to time, we may transfer or otherwise dispose of some of our properties. under the code, any gain resulting from transfers of properties that we hold as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business would be treated as income from a prohibited transaction subject to a 100% penalty tax. since we acquire properties for investment purposes, we do not believe that our occasional transfers or disposals of property are properly treated as prohibited transactions. however, whether property is held for investment purposes is a question of fact that depends on all the facts and circumstances surrounding the particular transaction. the internal revenue service may contend that certain transfers or disposals of properties by us are prohibited transactions. while we believe that the internal revenue service would not prevail in any such dispute, if the internal revenue service were to argue successfully that a transfer or disposition of property constituted a prohibited transaction, then we would be required to pay a 100% penalty tax on any gain allocable to us from the prohibited transaction. in addition, income from a prohibited transaction might adversely affect our ability to satisfy the income tests for qualification as a real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes. certain provisions of maryland law and our charter and bylaws could hinder, delay or prevent a change in control transaction, even if the transaction involves a premium price for our common stock or our stockholders believe such transaction to be otherwise in their best interests. certain provisions of maryland law, our charter and our bylaws have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing transactions that involve an actual or threatened change in control, even if these transactions involve a premium price for our common stock or our stockholders believe such transaction to be otherwise in their best interests. these provisions include the following: removal of directors. subject to the rights of one or more classes or series of preferred stock to elect one or more directors, our charter provides that a director may only be removed by the 31 affirmative vote or written consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares or by a unanimous vote of all other members of the board of directors. stockholder requested special meetings. our bylaws only permit our stockholders to call a special meeting upon the written request of the stockholders holding, in the aggregate, not less than 50% of the outstanding shares entitled to vote on the business proposed to be transacted at such meeting. advance notice provisions for stockholder nominations and proposals. our bylaws do not permit stockholders to nominate persons for election as directors at, or to bring other business before, any meeting of stockholders unless we are notified in a timely manner, in writing, prior to the meeting. preferred stock. under our charter, our board of directors has authority to issue preferred stock from time to time in one or more series and to establish the terms, preferences and rights of any such series of preferred stock, all without the approval of our stockholders. duties of directors with respect to unsolicited takeovers. maryland law provides protection for maryland corporations against unsolicited takeovers by limiting, among other things, the duties of the directors in unsolicited takeover situations. the duties of directors of maryland corporations do not require them to (a) accept, recommend or respond to any proposal by a person seeking to acquire control of the corporation, (b) make a determination under the maryland business combination act or the maryland control share acquisition act, or (c) act or fail to act solely because of the effect that the act or failure to act may have on an acquisition or potential acquisition of control of the corporation or the amount or type of consideration that may be offered or paid to the stockholders in an acquisition. moreover, an act of a director of a maryland corporation relating to or affecting an acquisition or potential acquisition of control is not subject to any higher duty or greater scrutiny than is applied to any other act of a director. maryland law also contains a statutory presumption that an act of a director of a maryland corporation satisfies the applicable standards of conduct for directors under maryland law. unsolicited takeovers. under maryland law, a maryland corporation with a class of equity securities registered under the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, and at least three independent directors may elect to be subject to certain statutory provisions relating to unsolicited takeovers which, among other things, would automatically classify the board of directors into three classes with staggered terms of three years each and vest in the board of directors the exclusive right to determine the number of directors and the exclusive right, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors, to fill vacancies on the board of directors, even if the remaining directors do not constitute a quorum. these statutory provisions relating to unsolicited takeovers also provide that any director elected to fill a vacancy shall hold office for the remainder of the full term of the class of directors in which the vacancy occurred, rather than the next annual meeting of directors as would otherwise be the case, and until the director's successor is elected and qualified. an election to be subject to any or all of the foregoing statutory provisions may be made in our charter or bylaws, or by resolution of our board of directors without stockholder approval. any such statutory provision to which we elect to be subject will apply even if other provisions of maryland law or our charter or bylaws provide to the contrary. neither our charter nor our bylaws provides that we are subject to any of the foregoing statutory provisions relating to unsolicited takeovers. however, our board of directors could adopt a resolution, without stockholder approval, to elect to become subject to some or all of these statutory provisions. if we made an election to be subject to such statutory provisions and our board of directors was divided into three classes with staggered terms of office of three years each, the classification 32 and staggered terms of office of our directors would make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our board of directors since at least two annual meetings of stockholders, instead of one, generally would be required to effect a change in the majority of our board of directors. maryland business combination act. the maryland business combination act provides that, unless exempted, a maryland corporation may not engage in business combinations, including mergers, dispositions of 10% or more of its assets, issuances of shares of stock and other specified transactions, with an "interested stockholder" or an affiliate of an interested stockholder for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder became an interested stockholder, and thereafter unless specified criteria are met. an interested stockholder is generally a person owning or controlling, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting power of the outstanding stock of a maryland corporation. unless our board of directors takes action to exempt us, generally or with respect to certain transactions, from this statute in the future, the maryland business combination act will be applicable to business combinations between us and other persons. in addition to the restrictions on business combinations provided under maryland law, our charter also contains restrictions on business combinations. our charter requires that, except in some circumstances, "business combinations" between us and a "related person," including a beneficial holder of 10% or more of our outstanding voting stock, be approved by the affirmative vote of at least 90% of our outstanding voting shares. maryland control share acquisition act. maryland law provides that "control shares" of a corporation acquired in a "control share acquisition" shall have no voting rights except to the extent approved by a vote of two-thirds of the votes eligible to be cast on the matter under the maryland control share acquisition act. "control shares" means shares of stock that, if aggregated with all other shares of stock previously acquired by the acquiror, would entitle the acquiror to exercise voting power in electing directors within one of the following ranges of the voting power: one-tenth or more but less than one-third, one-third or more but less than a majority, or a majority or more of all voting power. a "control share acquisition" means the acquisition of control shares, subject to certain exceptions. if voting rights or control shares acquired in a control share acquisition are not approved at a stockholder's meeting, then subject to certain conditions and limitations, the issuer may redeem any or all of the control shares for fair value. if voting rights of such control shares are approved at a stockholder's meeting and the acquiror becomes entitled to vote a majority of the shares of stock entitled to vote, all other stockholders may exercise appraisal rights. if any of our shares are control shares acquired in a control share acquisition, they will be subject to the maryland control share acquisition act unless our bylaws are amended in the future to exempt the acquisition of control shares generally or with respect to certain transactions. to maintain our reit status, we may be forced to borrow funds on a short-term basis during unfavorable market conditions. to qualify as a reit, we generally must distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our reit taxable income each year, determined by excluding any net capital gain, and we will be subject to regular corporate income taxes to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our reit taxable income each year. in addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions paid by us in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. in order to maintain our reit status and avoid the payment of income and excise taxes, we may need to borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the reit distribution requirements even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings. these short-term borrowing needs could result from differences in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of 33 income for federal income tax purposes, or the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt or amortization payments. our charter contains ownership limits with respect to our common stock and other classes of capital stock. our charter, subject to certain exceptions, contains restrictions on the ownership and transfer of our common stock and preferred stock that are intended to assist us in preserving our qualification as a reit. under our charter, subject to certain exceptions, no person or entity may own, actually or constructively, more than 9.8% (by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the outstanding shares of our common stock or our preferred stock. additionally, our charter has a 9.9% ownership limitation on the company's voting shares, which may include common stock or other classes of capital stock. our board of directors, in its sole discretion, may exempt a proposed transferee from either ownership limit. the ownership limits may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. as a result of the acquisition of seusa, hcp life science reit may have inherited tax liabilities and attributes from seusa. we acquired the stock of seusa through hcp life science reit. hcp life science reit is a subsidiary of ours that will elect to be treated as a reit commencing with its initial taxable year ending december 31, 2007. hcp life science reit succeeded to the tax attributes, including tax basis, and earnings and profits, if any, of seusa. to qualify as a reit, hcp life science reit must have distributed such non-reit earnings and profits by the close of its 2007 taxable year. while we expect hcp life science reit to have satisfied this distribution requirement, any adjustments to seusa's income for taxable years ending on or before the acquisition, including as a result of an examination of seusa's tax returns by the internal revenue service, could affect the calculation of seusa's earnings and profits. if the internal revenue service were to determine that hcp life science reit acquired non-reit earnings and profits from seusa that it failed to distribute prior to the end of its 2007 taxable year, hcp life science reit could nonetheless avoid disqualification as a reit by using "deficiency dividend" procedures. under these procedures, hcp life science reit generally would be required to distribute any such earnings and profits to its stockholders within 90 days of the determination and pay a statutory interest charge at a specified rate to the internal revenue service. such a distribution would be in addition to the distribution of reit taxable income necessary to satisfy the reit distribution requirement and may require us or hcp life science reit to borrow funds to make the distribution even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for borrowings. in addition, payment of the interest charge could materially adversely affect our cash flow. additionally, if hcp life science reit recognizes gain on the disposition of any properties formerly owned by seusa during the ten-year period beginning on the date on which it acquired the seusa stock, it will be required to pay tax at the highest regular corporate tax rate on such gain to the extent of the excess of (a) the fair market value of the asset over (b) its adjusted basis in the asset, in each case determined as of the date on which it acquired the seusa stock. any taxes paid by hcp life science reit would reduce the amount available for distribution by hcp life science reit to us. as a result of the crp merger and the crc merger, we may have inherited tax liabilities and attributes from crp and crc. prior to the crp merger, crp was organized as a reit for federal income tax purposes. if crp failed to qualify as a reit for any of its taxable years, it would be required to pay federal income tax 34 (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on its taxable income at regular corporate rates. unless statutory relief provisions apply, crp would have been disqualified from treatment as a reit for the four taxable years following the year during which it lost qualification. because the crp merger was treated for income tax purposes as if crp sold all of its assets in a taxable transaction to us, if crp did not qualify as a reit for the taxable year of the merger, it would be subject to tax in respect of the built-in gain in all of its assets. "built-in gain" generally means the excess of the fair market value of an asset over its adjusted tax basis. as successor-in-interest to crp, we would be required to pay these taxes. after the merger, the nature of the assets that we acquired from crp and the income we derive from those assets may have an effect on our tax status as a reit. in connection with the crp merger, crp's reit counsel rendered an opinion to us, dated as of the closing date of the merger, to the effect that crp qualified as a reit under the code for the taxable years ending december 31, 1999 generally through december 31, 2005, crp was organized in conformity with the requirements for qualification as a reit, and crp's method of operation had enabled crp to satisfy the requirements for qualification as a reit under the code for the taxable years ending on or prior to the closing date of the merger. this opinion was based on various assumptions and representations as to factual matters, including representations made by crp in a factual certificate provided by one of its officers, as well as other oral and written statements of officers and other representatives of crp and others as to the existence and consequence of certain factual and other matters. as a result of the crc merger, we succeeded to the assets and the liabilities of crc, including any liabilities for unpaid taxes and any tax liabilities created in connection with the crc merger. at the closing of the crc merger, we received an opinion of crc's counsel, and crc and its stockholders received an opinion of their counsel, substantially to the effect that, on the basis of the facts, representations and assumptions set forth or referred to in such opinions, for federal income tax purposes the crc merger qualified as a reorganization within the meaning of section 368(a) of the code. to the extent that the crc merger so qualified, no gain or loss was recognized by crc or us in the crc merger. if the crc merger did not qualify as a reorganization within the meaning of section 368(a) of the code, the crc merger would have been treated as a sale of crc's assets to hcp in a taxable transaction, and crc would have recognized taxable gain. in such a case, as crc's successor-in-interest, we would be required to pay the tax on any such gain. assuming that the crc merger qualified as a reorganization under the code, we succeeded to the tax attributes and earnings and profits of crc. to qualify as a reit, we must have distributed such earnings and profits by the close of the taxable year in which the crc merger occurred. any adjustments of crc's income for taxable years ending on or before the crc merger, including as a result of an examination of crc's tax returns by the internal revenue service, could affect the calculation of crc's earnings and profits. if the internal revenue service were to determine that we acquired earnings and profits from crc that we failed to distribute prior to the end of the taxable year in which the crc merger occurred, we could avoid disqualification as a reit by using "deficiency dividend" procedures described above. the opinions of counsel delivered in connection with the crp merger and the crc merger represent the best legal judgment of counsel and are not binding on the internal revenue service or the courts. there can be no assurance that the internal revenue service will agree with the conclusions in the above-described opinions. risk factors" in this report, factors that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements include: (a) changes in federal, state or local laws and regulations, including those affecting the healthcare industry that affect our costs of compliance or increase the costs, or otherwise affect the operations of our operators, tenants and borrowers; (b) changes in the reimbursement available to our tenants and borrowers by governmental or private payors, including changes in medicare and medicaid payment levels and the availability and cost of third party insurance coverage; (c) competition for tenants and borrowers, including with respect to new leases and mortgages and the renewal or rollover of existing leases; (d) availability of suitable properties to acquire at favorable prices and the competition for the acquisition and financing of those properties; (e) the ability of our operators, tenants and borrowers to conduct their respective businesses in a manner sufficient to maintain or increase their revenues and to generate sufficient income to make rent and loan payments to us; (f) the financial weakness of some operators and tenants, including potential bankruptcies and downturns in their businesses, which results in uncertainties regarding our ability to continue to realize the full benefit of such operators' and/or tenants' leases; (g) changes in national, regional and local economic conditions, including changes in interest rates and the availability and cost of capital; (h) the risk that we will not be able to sell or lease properties that are currently vacant, at all or at competitive rates; (i) the financial, legal and regulatory difficulties of significant operators of our properties, including sunrise senior living, inc. and tenet healthcare corporation; (k) the risk that we may not be able to integrate acquired businesses successfully or achieve the operating efficiencies and other benefits of acquisitions within expected time-frames or at all, or within expected cost projections; 43 (l) the ability to obtain financing necessary to consummate acquisitions or on favorable terms; and (m) the potential impact of existing and future litigation matters, including related developments. except as required by law, we undertake no, and hereby disclaim any, obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, changed circumstances or otherwise. the information set forth in this item 7 is intended to provide readers with an understanding of our financial condition, changes in financial condition and results of operations. we will discuss and provide our analysis in the following order: executive summary 2007 transaction overview dividends critical accounting policies results of operations liquidity and capital resources off-balance sheet arrangements contractual obligations inflation new accounting pronouncements executive summary we are a self-administered reit that, together with our consolidated subsidiaries, invests primarily in real estate serving the healthcare industry in the united states. we acquire, develop, lease, dispose and manage healthcare real estate and provide mortgage and specialty financing to healthcare providers. we invest directly, often structuring sale-leaseback transactions, and through joint ventures. at december 31, 2007, our real estate portfolio, excluding assets held for sale but including mortgage loans and properties owned by joint ventures, consisted of interests in 753 facilities. investment strategy our business strategy is based on three principles: (i) opportunistic investing; (ii) portfolio diversification; and (iii) conservative financing. we actively redeploy capital from investments with lower return potential into assets with higher return potential and recycle capital from shorter-term to longer-term investments. we make investments where the expected risk-adjusted return exceeds our cost of capital and strive to leverage our operator, tenant and other business relationships. our strategy contemplates acquiring and developing properties on terms that are favorable to us. we attempt to structure transactions that are tax-advantaged and mitigate risks in our underwriting process. generally, we prefer larger, more complex private transactions that leverage our management team's experience and our infrastructure. we follow a disciplined approach to enhancing the value of our existing portfolio, including ongoing evaluation of potential disposition of properties that no longer fit our strategy. during the year ended december 31, 2007, we sold 97 properties for $922 million and marketable securities for 44 $53 million. at december 31, 2007, we had four properties with a carrying amount of $171,000 classified as held for sale. we primarily generate revenue by leasing healthcare properties under long-term leases. most of our rents and other earned income from leases are received under triple-net leases or leases that provide for substantial recovery of operating expenses; however, some of our mob and life science facilities leases are structured as gross or modified gross leases. accordingly, for such mobs and life science facilities we incur certain property operating expenses, such as real estate taxes, repairs and maintenance, property management fees, utilities and insurance. our growth depends, in part, on our ability to (i) increase rental income and other earned income from leases by increasing rental rates and occupancy levels; (ii) maximize tenant recoveries given underlying lease structures; and (iii) control operating and other expenses. our operations are impacted by property specific, market specific, general economic and other conditions. access to external capital on favorable terms is critical to the success of our strategy. generally, we attempt to match the long-term duration of most of our investments with long-term fixed-rate financing. at december 31, 2007, 37% of our consolidated debt is at variable interest rates, which includes $1.35 billion for the outstanding balance of the bridge loan that was used to finance our acquisition of seusa. we intend to maintain an investment grade rating on our senior debt securities and manage various capital ratios and amounts within appropriate parameters. as of december 31, 2007, we have a credit rating of baa3 (stable) from moody's, bbb (negative outlook) from s&amp;p and bbb (stable) from fitch on our senior unsecured debt securities, and ba1 (stable) from moody's, bbb- (negative outlook) from s&amp;p and bbb- (stable) from fitch on our preferred securities. access to capital markets impacts our ability to refinance existing indebtedness as it matures and fund future acquisitions and development through the issuance of additional securities. our ability to access capital on favorable terms is dependent on various factors, including general market conditions, interest rates, credit ratings on our securities, perception of our potential future earnings and cash distributions, and the market price of our capital stock. 2007 transaction overview investment transactions during the year ended december 31, 2007, we made investments of approximately $4.7 billion, that had a weighted average yield on cost of approximately 7.7%, in the following segments: (i) 67% life science, (ii) 20% skilled nursing, (iii) 6% medical office, (iv) 6% hospital and (v) 1% senior housing. our 2007 investments include the following transactions: acquisition of medical city dallas campus. on february 9, 2007, we acquired the medical city dallas campus, which includes two hospital towers, six mobs and three parking garages, for approximately $350 million, including downreit units valued at $179 million. the initial yield on this campus is approximately 7.2%. acquisition of slough estates usa inc. on august 1, 2007, we closed our acquisition of seusa for aggregate cash consideration of approximately $3.0 billion. seusa's life science portfolio is concentrated in the san francisco bay area and san diego county and comprised 83 properties representing approximately 5.2 million square feet and an established development pipeline at closing. the results of operations of seusa are included in our consolidated results beginning after august 1, 2007. manor care mezzanine loan. on december 21, 2007, we made an investment in mezzanine loans with an aggregate face value of $1.0 billion, at a discount, for approximately $900 million, as part of the financing for the carlyle group's $6.3 billion purchase of manor care, inc. these loans bear interest 45 on the face amounts at a floating rate of libor plus 4.0%, mature in january 2013, are pre-payable at any time subject to payment of yield maintenance during the first twelve months, and are mandatorily pre-payable in january 2012 unless the borrower satisfies certain financial conditions. these loans are secured by an indirect pledge of the equity ownership in 339 hcr manorcare facilities located in 30 states and are subordinate to other debt, approximately $3.6 billion at closing. other investment transactions. for the year ended december 31, 2007, in addition to the transactions listed above, we made investments of approximately $271 million, that had a weighted average first year yield on cost of approximately 9.5%, including the following transactions: on january 31, 2007, we acquired three long-term acute care hospitals and received proceeds of $36 million in exchange for 11 snfs valued at $77 million. we recognized a $47 million gain from the sale of these 11 snfs. the three acquired properties have an initial contractual yield of 12% with escalators based on the lessee's revenue growth. the acquired properties are included in a new master lease that contains 14 properties leased to the same operator. in november and december 2007, we acquired three life science facilities with an aggregate value of approximately $46 million, including $12 million of assumed debt. the initial weighted average yield of these properties is approximately 7.1%. during 2007, we funded approximately $150 million for construction and other capital projects. for the year ended december 31, 2007, our sales of properties and marketable securities aggregated approximately $975 million and were made from the following segments: (i) 59% senior housing, (ii) 32% skilled nursing, (iii) 5% hospital and (iv) 4% medical office. our 2007 divestitures included the following: on june 29, 2007, we sold a portfolio of 17 senior housing facilities for an aggregate price of $185 million, resulting in a gain of $3 million. this portfolio was included in our acquisition of cnl retirement properties, inc. on october 5, 2006. on august 15, 2007, we sold 41 senior housing facilities to emeritus corporation for an aggregate price of $501.5 million, resulting in a gain of $284 million. the 3,732 unit portfolio is comprised of 33 facilities operated by emeritus corporation and 8 facilities operated by summerville senior living, inc. joint venture transactions during the year ended december 31, 2007, we contributed an aggregate of $1.7 billion of senior housing, medical office and hospital properties into institutional joint ventures, including the transactions discussed below, on january 5, 2007, we formed a senior housing joint venture, hcp ventures ii, with an institutional capital partner. the joint venture included 25 properties valued at $1.1 billion and encumbered by $686 million in mortgage loans. upon the sale of a 65% interest, we received approximately $280 million in proceeds, including a one-time acquisition fee of $5.4 million. we act as the managing member and expect to receive ongoing asset management fees. on april 30, 2007, we formed a mob joint venture, hcp ventures iv, llc ("hcp ventures iv"), with an institutional capital partner. the joint venture included 55 properties valued at approximately $585 million and encumbered by $344 million of secured debt. upon the sale of an 80% interest in the venture, we received proceeds of $196 million and recognized a gain on the sale of our real estate interest of $10 million. these proceeds include a one-time acquisition fee of $3 million. we act as the managing member and expect to receive ongoing asset management fees. during 2007, hcp ventures iv acquired three mobs valued at $58 million and concurrently placed $38 million of secured debt. the acquisitions were funded pro-rata by us and our joint venture partner. 46 financing transactions during the year ended december 31, 2007, we raised $6.3 billion in capital through the issuance of common stock, senior unsecured notes and mortgage debt, and financing related to the closing of our seusa acquisition, which includes the transactions discussed below. on january 19, 2007, we issued 6.8 million shares of common stock. we received net proceeds of approximately $261 million, which were used to repay a portion of the borrowings outstanding under our former term loan facility and previous revolving credit. on january 22, 2007, we issued $500 million in aggregate principal amount of 6.00% senior unsecured notes due in 2017. the notes were priced at 99.323% of the principal amount for an effective yield of 6.09%. we received net proceeds of approximately $493 million, which were used to repay our former term loan facility and reduce borrowings under our former revolving credit facility. on april 27, 2007, in anticipation of the formation of hcp ventures iv, discussed above, we placed $122 million of 10-year term mortgage notes with an interest rate of 5.53%. the proceeds from these notes were used to repay outstanding borrowings under our former revolving credit facility and for other general corporate purposes. on august 1, 2007, in connection with the completion of the seusa acquisition, we obtained, from a syndicate of banks, a financing commitment for a $3.0 billion bridge loan, under which $2.75 billion was borrowed at closing, and a four-year $1.5 billion revolving line of credit facility. the bridge loan has an initial maturity date of july 31, 2008 and includes two optional 6-month extensions. in october 2007, we made aggregate payments of approximately $1.4 billion, reducing the outstanding principal balance of the bridge loan to $1.35 billion at december 31, 2007. on october 5, 2007, we issued 9 million shares of common stock and received net proceeds of approximately $303 million, which were used to repay outstanding borrowings under our bridge loan facility. on october 15, 2007, we issued $600 million in aggregate principal amount of 6.70% senior unsecured notes due in 2018. the notes were priced at 99.793% of the principal amount for an effective yield of 6.73%. we received net proceeds of approximately $595 million, which were used to repay outstanding borrowings under our bridge loan facility. dividends during the year ended december 31, 2007, we issued approximately 1.6 million shares of our common stock under our dividend reinvestment and stock purchase plan at an average price per share of $31.82 for proceeds of approximately $50.9 million. quarterly dividends paid during 2007 aggregated $1.78 per share. on january 28, 2008, we announced that our board of directors declared a quarterly common stock cash dividend of $0.455 per share. the common stock dividend will be paid on february 21, 2008 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on february 7, 2008. based on the first quarter's dividend, the annualized rate of distribution for 2008 is $1.82, compared with $1.78 for 2007. critical accounting policies the preparation of financial statements in conformity with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles ("gaap") requires our management to use judgment in the application of accounting policies, including making estimates and assumptions. we base estimates on our experience and on various other assumptions believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. these estimates affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting 47 periods. if our judgment or interpretation of the facts and circumstances relating to various transactions or other matters had been different, it is possible that different accounting would have been applied, resulting in a different presentation of our financial statements. for a description of the risk associated with our critical accounting policies, see "risk factors risks related to our business." from time to time, we re-evaluate our estimates and assumptions. in the event estimates or assumptions prove to be different from actual results, adjustments are made in subsequent periods to reflect more current estimates and assumptions about matters that are inherently uncertain. principles of consolidation our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of hcp, its wholly-owned subsidiaries and its controlled, through voting rights or other means, joint ventures. we apply financial accounting standards board ("fasb") interpretation no. 46r, consolidation of variable interest entities , as revised ("fin 46r"), for arrangements with variable interest entities ("vies") and consolidate those vies where we are the primary beneficiary. we also apply emerging issues task force ("eitf") issue 04-5, investor's accounting for an investment in a limited partnership when the investor is the sole general partner and the limited partners have certain rights ("eitf 04-05"), to investments in joint ventures. our judgment with respect to our level of influence or control of an entity and whether we are the primary beneficiary of a vie involves the consideration of various factors including, but not limited to, the form of our ownership interest, our representation on the entity's governing body, the size of our investment, estimates of future cash flows, our ability to participate in policy making decisions and the rights of the other investors to participate in the decision making process and to replace us as manager and/or liquidate the venture, if applicable. our ability to correctly assess our influence or control over an entity or determine the primary beneficiary of a vie affects the presentation of these entities in our consolidated financial statements. at december 31, 2007, we leased 81 properties, with a carrying value of $1.3 billion, to a total of nine tenants that have been identified as vies ("vie tenants") and have a loan with a carrying value of $85 million to a borrower that has been identified as a vie. we acquired these leases and loan on october 5, 2006 in our merger with crp. crp determined it was not the primary beneficiary of these vies, and we are generally required to carry forward crp's accounting conclusions after the acquisition relative to their primary beneficiary assessments. on december 21, 2007, we made an investment of approximately $900 million in mezzanine loans where each mezzanine borrower has been identified as a vie. we have also determined that we are not the primary beneficiary of these vies. at december 31, 2007, our maximum exposure to losses resulting from our involvement in vies was limited to the future minimum lease payments of approximately $1.5 billion from the vie tenants and the carrying value of approximately $1.0 billion of loans made to the vie borrowers. if we determine that we are the primary beneficiary of a vie our financial statements would include the results of the vie (either tenant or borrower) rather than the results of our lease or loan to the vie. we would depend on the vie to provide us timely financial information, and we would rely on the internal controls of the vie to provide accurate financial information. if the vie has deficiencies in its internal controls over financial reporting, or does not provide us with timely financial information, this may adversely impact our financial reporting and our internal controls over financial reporting. revenue recognition rental income from tenants is recognized in accordance with gaap, including sec staff accounting bulletin no. 104, revenue recognition ("sab 104"). we begin recognizing rental revenue on a straight-line basis over the lease term when collectibility is reasonably assured and the tenant has taken possession or controls the physical use of the leased asset. for assets acquired subject to leases 48 we recognize revenue upon acquisition of the asset provided the tenant has taken possession or controls the physical use of the leased asset. if the lease provides for tenant improvements, we determine whether the tenant improvements, for accounting purposes, are owned by the tenant or us. when we are the owner of the tenant improvements, the tenant is not considered to have taken physical possession or controls the physical use of the leased asset until the tenant improvements are substantially completed. when the tenant is the owner of the tenant improvements any tenant improvement allowance funded is treated as a lease incentive and amortized as a reduction of revenue over the lease term. the determination of ownership of the tenant improvements is subject to significant judgment. tenant improvement ownership is determined based on various factors including, but not limited to: whether the lease stipulates how and on what a tenant improvement allowance may be spent; whether the tenant or landlord retains legal title to the improvements at the end of the lease term; whether the tenant improvements are unique to the tenant or general-purpose in nature; and whether the tenant improvements are expected to have any residual value at the end of the lease. if our assessment of the owner of the tenant improvements for accounting purposes were to change, the timing and amount of our revenue recognized would be impacted. certain leases provide for additional rents contingent upon a percentage of the facility's revenue in excess of specified base amounts or other thresholds. such revenue is recognized when actual results reported by the tenant, or estimates of tenant results, exceed the base amount or other thresholds. the recognition of additional rents requires us to make estimates of amounts owed and to a certain extent are dependent on the accuracy of the facility results reported to us. these estimates may differ from actual results, which could be material to our consolidated financial statements. we use the direct finance method of accounting to record income from direct financing leases ("dfls"). for leases accounted for as dfls, future minimum lease payments are recorded as a receivable. the difference between the future minimum lease payments and the estimated residual values less the cost of the properties is recorded as unearned income. unearned income is deferred and amortized to income over the lease terms to provide a constant yield. income recognized using the direct finance method requires us to make judgments regarding the collectibility of lease payments and estimated residual value of the leased asset on an ongoing basis. changes in our estimates of residual value or collectibility of lease payments, could have a material impact to our consolidated financial statement. allowances we maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts, including an allowance for straight-line rent receivables, for estimated losses resulting from tenant defaults or the inability of tenants to make contractual rent and tenant recovery payments. we monitor the liquidity and creditworthiness of our tenants and operators on an ongoing basis. the evaluation considers industry and economic conditions, property performance, credit enhancements and other factors. for straight-line rent amounts, our assessment is based on income recoverable over the term of the lease. we exercise judgment in establishing allowances and consider payment history and current credit status in developing these estimates. these estimates may differ from actual results, which could be material to our consolidated financial statements. we also establish allowances for loans based upon an estimate of probable losses for the individual loans deemed to be impaired. impairment is indicated when it is deemed probable that we will be 49 unable to collect all amounts due on a timely basis according to the contractual terms of the loan. determining the adequacy of the allowance is complex and requires significant judgment by us about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. the allowance is based upon the borrower's overall financial condition, resources and payment record; the prospects for support from any financially responsible guarantors; and, if appropriate, the realizable value of any collateral. our estimates consider all available evidence including, as appropriate, the present value of the expected future cash flows discounted at the loan's contractual effective rate, the fair value of collateral, general economic conditions and trends, historical and industry loss experience, and other relevant factors. while our assumptions are based in part upon historical data, our estimates may differ from actual results, which could be material to our consolidated financial statements. real estate real estate, consisting of land, buildings and improvements, is recorded at cost. we allocate the cost of the acquisition, including the assumption of liabilities, to the acquired tangible assets and identified intangibles based on their estimated fair values in accordance with sfas no. 141, business combinations . we assess fair value based on estimated cash flow projections that utilize appropriate discount and/or capitalization rates and available market information. estimates of future cash flows are based on a number of factors including historical operating results, known and anticipated trends, and market and economic conditions. the fair value of the tangible assets of an acquired property considers the value of the property as if it was vacant. we record acquired "above and below" market leases at fair value using discount rates which reflect the risks associated with the leases acquired. the amount recorded is based on the present value of the difference between (i) the contractual amounts to be paid pursuant to each in-place lease and (ii) our estimate of fair market lease rates for each in-place lease, measured over a period equal to the remaining term of the lease for above market leases and the initial term plus extended term for any leases with below market fixed rate renewal options. other intangible assets acquired include amounts for in-place lease values that are based on our evaluation of the specific characteristics of each tenant's lease. factors to be considered include estimates of carrying costs during hypothetical expected lease-up periods, market conditions and costs to execute similar leases. in estimating carrying costs, we include estimates of lost rentals at market rates during the hypothetical expected lease-up periods, depending on local market conditions. in estimating costs to execute similar leases, we consider leasing commissions, legal and other related costs. we are required to make subjective assessments to allocate the purchase price paid to acquire investments in real estate among the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on our estimate of the fair values of such assets and liabilities. this includes determining the value of the buildings and improvements, land, ground leases, tenant improvements, in-place tenant leases, favorable or unfavorable market leases and any debt assumed from the seller or loans made by the seller to us. each of these estimates requires significant judgment and some of the estimates involve complex calculations. these allocation assessments have a direct impact on our results of operations as amounts allocated to some assets and liabilities are not subject to depreciation or amortization and those that are have different lives. additionally, the amortization of value assigned to favorable or unfavorable market rate leases is recorded as an adjustment to rental revenue as compared to amortization of the value of in-place leases, which is included in depreciation and amortization in our consolidated statements of income. 50 impairment of long-lived assets and goodwill we assess the carrying value of our long-lived assets, including investments in unconsolidated joint ventures, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable in accordance with sfas no. 144, and with respect to goodwill, at least annually applying a fair-value-based test in accordance with sfas no. 142, goodwill and other intangible assets . if the sum of the expected future net undiscounted cash flows is less than the carrying amount of the long-lived asset, an impairment loss will be recognized by adjusting the asset's carrying amount to its estimated fair value. the determination of the fair value of long-lived assets, including goodwill, involves significant judgment. this judgment is based on our analysis and estimates of the future operating results and resulting cash flows of each long-lived asset whose carrying amount may not be recoverable. our ability to accurately predict future operating results, cash flows and fair values impacts the timing and recognition of impairments. while we believe our assumptions are reasonable, changes in these assumptions may have a material impact on our financial results. derivatives we use a variety of methods and assumptions based on market conditions and risks existing at each balance sheet date to determine the fair value of our derivative instruments. to estimate the fair value of these instruments we utilize pricing models, which consider inputs such as forward yield curves and discount rates. these methods of estimating fair value result in an approximation of benefits or obligations which may be different than amounts ultimately realized. at inception of each derivative instrument and on an ongoing basis we make an assessment to determine whether these instruments are eligible for hedge accounting by concluding that they are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows associated with the related hedged item. while we intend to continue to meet the conditions for hedge accounting, if hedges are no longer highly effective, the changes in fair value of the derivative instruments would be reflected in earnings. income taxes as part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements, significant management judgment is required to estimate our compliance with reit requirements. our determinations are based on interpretation of tax laws, and our conclusions may have an impact on the income tax expense recognized. adjustments to income tax expense may be required as a result of i) audits conducted by federal and state tax authorities; ii) our ability to qualify as a reit; iii) the potential for built-in-gain recognized related to prior-tax-free acquisitions of c corporations; and iv) changes in tax laws. adjustments required in any given period are included in income, other than adjustments to income tax liabilities acquired in business combinations, which are adjusted through goodwill. results of operations we evaluate our business and allocate resources among our five business segments (i) senior housing; (ii) life science; (iii) medical office; (iv) hospital; and (v) skilled nursing. under the senior housing, life science, hospital and skilled nursing segments, we invest primarily in single operator or tenant properties through the acquisition and development of real estate, secured financing, mezzanine financing and investment in marketable debt securities of operators in these sectors. under the medical office segment, we invest through acquisition and secured financing in mobs that are primarily leased under gross or modified gross leases, generally to multiple tenants, and which generally require a greater level of property management. the acquisition of seusa on august 1, 2007 resulted in a change to our reportable segments. prior to the seusa acquisition, we operated through two reportable segments triple-net leased and medical office buildings. the senior housing, life science, hospital and skilled nursing segments were previously aggregated under our triple-net leased segment. 51 seusa's results are included in our consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition of august 1, 2007. the accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies (see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements). there were no intersegment sales or transfers. comparison of the year ended december 31, 2007 to the year ended december 31, 2006 we completed our acquisition of seusa on august 1, 2007, mergers with crp and crc on october 5, 2006 and the acquisition of an interest held by an affiliate of general electric ("ge") in hcp mop on november 30, 2006, which resulted in the consolidation of hcp mop beginning on that date. the results of operations from our seusa, crp and hcp mop transactions are reflected in our consolidated financial statements from those respective dates. during 2008, we expect increases in revenues, expenses and interest income from a full year of results from our seusa acquisition, mezzanine loan investments and joint venture transactions. rental and related revenues. year ended december 31, change segments 2007 2006 $ % (dollars in thousands) senior housing $ 298,213 $ 167,771 $ 130,442 78 % life science 79,664 14,919 64,745 434 medical office 286,556 165,942 120,614 73 hospital 128,156 94,448 33,708 36 skilled nursing 43,133 40,841 2,292 6 total $ 835,722 $ 483,921 $ 351,801 73 % senior housing. senior housing rental and related revenues increased $130.4 million, to $298.2 million, for the year ended december 31, 2007. approximately $98 million of the increase relates to properties acquired in the crp merger. additionally, the results for the year ended december 31, 2007, include income of $9 million resulting from our change in estimate relating to the collectability of straight-line rents due from summerville senior living, inc. the remaining increase in senior housing rental and related revenues primarily relates to rent escalations and resets, and the additive effect of our other acquisitions in 2007 and 2006. additionally, included in senior housing rental and related revenues were facility-level operating revenues for five senior housing properties that were previously leased on a triple-net basis. periodically, tenants default on their leases, which causes us to take temporary possession of the operations of the facility. we contract with third-party managers to manage these properties until a replacement tenant can be identified or the property can be sold. the operating revenues and expenses for these properties are included in senior housing rental and related revenues and operating expenses, respectively. the increase in reported revenues for these facilities of $1.7 million, to $11.3 million for the year ended december 31, 2007, was primarily due to an increase in overall occupancy of such properties. life science. life science rental and related revenues increased by $64.7 million, to $79.7 million, for the year ended december 31, 2007, primarily as a result of our acquisition of seusa on august 1, 2007. medical office. medical office rental and related revenues increased $120.6 million, to $286.6 million, for the year ended december 31, 2007. approximately $36 million of the increase relates to mobs acquired in the crp merger and $64.7 million relates to the consolidation of hcp mop. the remaining increase in medical office rental and related revenues primarily relates to the additive effect of our mob acquisitions in 2007 and 2006. 52 hospital. hospital rental and related revenues increased by $33.7 million, to $128.2 million, for the year ended december 31, 2007. approximately $31.4 million of the increase relates to the additive effect of our hospital acquisitions in 2007 and $3.2 million related to properties acquired in the crp merger. the remaining increase in hospital rental and related revenues primarily relates to rent escalations and increases in additional rents that are based on the respective facility's revenues. tenant recoveries. year ended december 31, change segments 2007 2006 $ % (dollars in thousands) life science $ 19,326 $ 3,935 $ 15,391 391 % medical office 48,936 28,098 20,838 74 hospital 1,092 34 1,058 nm (1) total $ 69,354 $ 32,067 $ 37,287 116 % (1) percentage change not meaningful. life science. life science tenant recoveries increased by $15.4 million, to $19.3 million, for the year ended december 31, 2007, primarily as a result of our acquisition of seusa on august 1, 2007. medical office. medical office tenant recoveries increased $20.8 million, to $48.9 million, for the year ended december 31, 2007. approximately $11.6 million of the increase relates to mobs acquired in the crp merger and $7.7 million relates to the consolidation of hcp mop. the remaining increase in medical office tenant recoveries primarily relates to the additive effect of our mob acquisitions in 2007 and 2006. hospital. hospital tenant recoveries increased as a result of our hospital acquisitions in 2007. income from direct financing leases. income from direct financing leases of $63.9 million relates to properties acquired from crp, which are accounted for using the direct financing method. at december 31, 2007, these leased properties had a carrying value of $640.1 million and accrued income at a weighted average interest rate of 8.5%. during the year ended december 31, 2007, two dfl tenants exercised their purchase options and we received proceeds of $51 million and recognized additional income of $4.3 million. investment management fee income. investment management fee income increased $9.7 million, to $13.6 million, for the year ended december 31, 2007. the increase was primarily due to the acquisition fees related to hcp ventures ii of $5.4 million on january 5, 2007 and hcp ventures iv of $3.0 million on april 30, 2007, partially offset by the decline in fees of $3.1 million resulting from our purchase of ge's interests in hcp mop on november 30, 2006. interest expense. interest expense increased $145.2 million, to $357.0 million, for the year ended december 31, 2007. this increase was primarily due to (i) $106 million of interest expense from the issuance of $2.65 billion of senior unsecured notes during 2006 and 2007, (ii) $43 million increase in our outstanding mortgage debt resulting primarily from our acquisitions of crp, consolidation of hcp mop and other property acquisitions, (iii) $17 million from the increase in outstanding indebtedness under our bridge and term loans and line of credit facilities, and the related amortization and write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs. the increase in interest expense is partially offset by $11 million increase in the amount of capitalized interest relating to the increase in assets under development 53 primarily from our acquisition of seusa and $10 million decrease from the maturity of $275 million of senior unsecured notes during 2006 and 2007. we expect an increase in capitalized interest during 2008 as a result of our assets under development. the table below sets forth information with respect to our debt, excluding premiums and discounts (dollars in thousands): as of december 31, 2007 2006 balance: fixed rate $ 4,704,988 $ 4,541,237 variable rate 2,822,316 1,669,031 total $ 7,527,304 $ 6,210,268 percent of total debt: fixed rate 63 % 73 % variable rate 37 % 27 % total 100 % 100 % weighted average interest rate at end of period: fixed rate 6.18 % 5.91 % variable rate 5.90 % 6.13 % total weighted average rate 6.08 % 5.97 % depreciation and amortization expenses. depreciation and amortization expenses increased $141.4 million, to $274.3 million, for the year ended december 31, 2007. approximately $65.2 million of the increase relates to properties acquired in the crp merger, $19.2 million relates to the consolidation of hcp mop and $33.5 million relates to the seusa acquisition. the remaining increase in depreciation and amortization primarily relates to the additive effect of our other acquisitions in 2007 and 2006. operating expenses. year ended december 31, change segments 2007 2006 $ % (dollars in thousands) senior housing $ 14,125 $ 12,849 $ 1,276 10 % life science 25,697 4,757 20,940 440 medical office 144,767 68,944 75,823 110 hospital 1,884 1,334 550 41 skilled nursing 77 637 (560 ) (88 ) total $ 186,550 $ 88,521 $ 98,029 111 % operating expenses are predominantly related to mob and life science properties where we incur the expenses and recover a portion of those expenses under the lease. accordingly, the number of properties in our mob and life science portfolios directly impact operating expenses. the presentation of expenses as general and administrative or operating is based on the underlying nature of the expense. periodically, we review the classification of expenses between categories and make revisions based on changes in the underlying nature of the expense. senior housing. included in operating expenses are facility-level operating expenses for five senior housing properties that were previously leased on a triple-net basis. periodically, tenants 54 default on their leases, which causes us to take possession of the operations of the facility. we contract with third-party managers to manage these properties until a replacement tenant can be identified or the property can be sold. the operating revenues and expenses for these properties are included in healthcare rental revenues and operating expenses, respectively. the increase in reported operating expenses for these facilities of $1.3 million, to $14.1 million for the year ended december 31, 2007, was primarily due to an increase in the overall occupancy of such properties. life science. life science operating expenses increased by $20.9 million, to $25.7 million, for the year ended december 31, 2007, primarily as a result of our acquisition of seusa on august 1, 2007. medical office. medical office operating expenses increased $75.8 million, to $144.8 million, for the year ended december 31, 2007. approximately $34.8 million relates to the consolidation of hcp mop and $18.5 million of the increase relates to properties acquired in the crp merger. the remaining increase in medical office operating expenses relates to the additive effect of our acquisitions in 2007 and 2006. general and administrative expenses. general and administrative expenses increased $23.7 million, to $70.9 million, for the year ended december 31, 2007. included in general and administrative expenses are merger and integration-related expenses associated with the crc, crp and seusa acquisitions of $9.8 million for the year ended december 31, 2007, compared to $5.0 million in the prior year. merger and integration-related expenses are primarily costs from our crp merger, such as employee transition costs as well as severance costs for certain of our employees whose responsibilities became redundant after the completion of the merger. the remaining increase was primarily due to $9.4 million in various items including increased professional and legal fees, federal and state taxes, and compensation related expenses. we expect to incur integration costs associated with our acquisition of seusa through 2008. equity income from unconsolidated joint ventures. for the year ended december 31, 2007, equity income decreased $2.7 million, to $5.6 million. this decrease is primarily due to our consolidation of hcp mop, which was previously accounted for as an equity method investment, partially offset by equity income from hcp ventures ii, iii and iv. gain on sale of real estate interest. on april 30, 2007, we sold an 80% interest in hcp ventures iv, which resulted in a gain of $10.1 million. there were no interests in joint ventures sold during the year ended december 31, 2006. interest and other income, net. interest and other income, net increased $40.9 million, to $75.7 million, for the year ended december 31, 2007. the increase was primarily related to an increase of $24.0 million of interest income from $275 million of marketable debt securities, $9.3 million of interest income from an $85 million loan acquired in the crp merger and $7.6 million of interest income from cash and cash equivalents. during 2007, our marketable debt securities accrued interest at rates ranging from 9.25% to 9.625%, and our $85 million loan accrued interest at a rate of 14%. minority interests' share of earnings. for the year ended december 31, 2007, minority interests' share of earnings increased $9.6 million, to $24.4 million. this increase was primarily due to the issuance of 4.2 million non-managing member units of hcp dr mcd, llc, in connection with our february 9, 2007 acquisition of a medical campus. discontinued operations. income from discontinued operations for the year ended december 31, 2007 was $428.3 million, compared to $338.4 million for the comparable period in the prior year. the increase is primarily due to an increase in gains on real estate dispositions of $128 million and a decline in impairment charges of $6 million year over year. during the year ended december 31, 2007, 55 we sold 97 properties for $922 million, as compared to 83 properties for $512 million in the year ago period. the increase was partially offset by a year over year decline in operating income from discontinued operations of $44 million. discontinued operations for the year ended december 31, 2007 included 101 properties compared to 184 for the year ended december 31, 2006. included in discontinued operations during the year ended december 31, 2007 was income of $6 million, resulting from a change in estimate related to the collectability of straight-line rental income from emeritus corporation. comparison of the year ended december 31, 2006 to the year ended december 31, 2005 on october 5, 2006, we completed our merger with crp. on november 30, 2006, we acquired the interest held by an affiliate of ge in hcp mop, which resulted in the consolidation of hcp mop beginning on that date. the impact on various income statement line items from our merger with crp and consolidation of hcp mop are discussed below. rental and related revenues. year ended december 31, change segments 2006 2005 $ % (dollars in thousands) senior housing $ 167,771 $ 84,281 $ 83,490 99 % life science 14,919 12,124 2,795 23 medical office 165,942 113,463 52,479 46 hospital 94,448 91,122 3,326 4 skilled nursing 40,841 39,494 1,347 3 total $ 483,921 $ 340,484 $ 143,437 42 % senior housing. senior housing rental and related revenues increased $83.5 million, to $167.8 million, for the year ended december 31, 2006. approximately $51.3 million of the increase relates to properties acquired in the crp merger. the remaining increase in senior housing rental and related revenues of $32.2 million primarily relates to rent escalations and resets, and the additive effect of our other acquisitions in 2006 and 2005. additionally, included in senior housing rental and related revenues are facility-level operating revenues for five senior housing properties that were previously leased on a triple-net basis. periodically tenants default on their leases, which causes us to take temporary possession of the operations of the facility. we contract with third-party managers to manage these properties until a replacement tenant can be identified or the property can be sold. the operating revenues and expenses for these properties are included in senior housing rental and related revenues and operating expenses, respectively. the increase in revenues for these facilities of $1.9 million to $9.7 million for the year ended december 31, 2006, was primarily due to an increase in overall occupancy of such properties. life science. life science rental and related revenues increased by $2.8 million, to $14.9 million, for the year ended december 31, 2006. the increase in life science rental and related revenues are primarily related to the additive effect of our life science acquisitions in 2006. medical office. medical office rental and related revenues increased $52.5 million, to $165.9 million, for the year ended december 31, 2006. approximately $19.0 million of the increase relates to mobs acquired in the crp merger and $5.3 million relates to the consolidation of hcp mop. the remaining increase in medical office rental and related revenues primarily relates to the additive effect of our mob acquisitions in 2006 and 2005. 56 tenant recoveries. year ended december 31, change segments 2006 2005 $ % (dollars in thousands) life science $ 3,935 $ 3,462 $ 473 14 % medical office 28,098 17,605 10,493 60 hospital 34 34 nm (1) total $ 32,067 $ 21,067 $ 11,000 52 % (1) percentage change not meaningful. medical office. medical office tenant recoveries increased $10.5 million, to $28.1 million, for the year ended december 31, 2006. approximately $4.3 million of the increase relates to mobs acquired in the crp merger and $0.6 million relates to the consolidation of hcp mop. the remaining increase of $5.6 million in medical office tenant recoveries primarily relates to the additive effect of our mob acquisitions in 2006 and 2005. income from direct financing leases. income from direct financing leases of $15 million relates to 32 leased properties acquired from crp that are accounted for using the direct financing method. at december 31, 2006, these leased properties had a carrying value of $678 million and accrued interest at a weighted average interest rate of 9.0%. investment management fee income. investment management fee income increased by $0.7 million, to $3.9 million, for the year ended december 31, 2006. the increase was primarily due to the acquisition fee earned from hcp ventures iii of $0.7 million on october 27, 2006. interest expense. interest expense increased $105.6 million, to $211.9 million, for the year ended december 31, 2006. this increase was primarily due to (i) $39 million from the issuance of $2 billion of senior unsecured notes during 2005 and 2006; (ii) $30 million increase from additional mortgage debt primarily as a result of our acquisition of crp, consolidation of hcp mop and other property acquisitions; and (iii) $48 million from the increase in outstanding indebtedness under our line of credit facilities and crp-related bridge and term loans, and the related amortization write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs. the increase in interest expense was partially offset by $11 million decrease from the maturity of $255 million of senior unsecured notes during 2006. 57 the table below sets forth information with respect to our debt, excluding premiums and discounts (dollars in thousands): as of december 31, 2006 2005 balance: fixed rate $ 4,541,237 $ 1,663,166 variable rate 1,669,031 295,265 total $ 6,210,268 $ 1,958,431 percent of total debt: fixed rate 73 % 85 % variable rate 27 % 15 % total 100 % 100 % weighted average interest rate at end of period: fixed rate 5.91 % 6.33 % variable rate 6.13 % 4.95 % total weighted average rate 5.97 % 6.14 % depreciation and amortization expenses. depreciation and amortization expenses increased 55%, or $47.1 million, to $132.9 million for the year ended december 31, 2006. approximately $27.8 million of the increase related to properties acquired in the crp merger and $1.6 million related to the consolidation of hcp mop. the remaining increase in depreciation and amortization expenses of $17.7 million primarily relates to the additive effect of our other acquisitions in 2006 and 2005. operating expenses. year ended december 31, change segments 2006 2005 $ % (dollars in thousands) senior housing $ 12,849 $ 6,072 $ 6,777 112 % life science 4,757 4,259 498 12 medical office 68,944 46,991 21,953 47 hospital 1,334 977 357 37 skilled nursing 637 411 226 55 total $ 88,521 $ 58,710 $ 29,811 51 % operating expenses are predominantly related to mob and life science properties where we incur the expenses and recover a portion of those expenses under the lease. accordingly, the number of properties in our mob and life science portfolios directly impact operating expenses. additionally, we contract with third-party property managers for most of our mob properties. the presentation of expenses as general and administrative or operating is based on the underlying nature of the expense. periodically, we review the classification of expenses between categories and make revisions based on changes in the underlying nature of the expense. senior housing. included in operating expenses were facility-level operating expenses for five senior housing properties that were previously leased on a triple-net basis. periodically tenants default on their leases, which causes us to take temporary possession of the operations of the facility. we contract with third-party managers to manage these properties until a replacement tenant can be identified or the property can be sold. the operating revenues and expenses for 58 these properties are included in triple-net lease rental revenues and operating expenses, respectively. the increase in reported operating expenses for these facilities of $2.8 million, to $11.7 million for the year ended december 31, 2006, was primarily due to us taking possession of two of these properties in 2005 and an increase in overall occupancy of such properties. the remaining increase in operating expenses of approximately $4 million primarily relates to the effect of our other property acquisitions in 2006 and 2005. medical office. medical office operating expenses increased $22 million, to $69 million, for the year ended december 31, 2006. approximately $9.2 million of the increase related to properties acquired in the crp merger and $3.4 million related to the consolidation of hcp mop. the remaining increase in operating expenses of $9.4 million primarily relates to the effect of our other property acquisitions in 2006 and 2005. general and administrative expenses. general and administrative expenses increased 48.3% or $15.4 million, to $47.2 million, for the year ended december 31, 2006. the increase was primarily due to higher compensation-related expenses of approximately $9.0 million resulting from an increase in full-time employees. at december 31, 2006 and 2005, we had 165 and 83 full-time employees, respectively. in addition, during 2006 we incurred $5.0 million in merger and integration-related expenses associated with the crc and crp mergers. merger and integration-related expenses are primarily costs from our crp merger, such as employee transition costs as well as severance costs for certain of our employees whose responsibilities became redundant after the completion of the merger. equity income from unconsolidated joint ventures. equity income increased by $9.5 million, to $8.3 million, primarily due to our investment in hcp mop, for which we recorded equity income of $7.8 million and equity losses of $1.4 million for the years ended december 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. during the year ended december 31, 2006, hcp mop sold 34 mobs for approximately $100.7 million, net of transaction costs, and recognized aggregate gains of $19.7 million. see note 8 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on hcp mop. on november 30, 2006, we acquired the interest held by an affiliate of ge in hcp mop, which resulted in us becoming the sole owner of hcp mop and consolidating its results of operations beginning on that date. on october 27, 2006, we formed hcp ventures iii, a joint venture with an institutional capital partner, with 13 of our previously 85% owned properties. beginning on october 27, 2006, hcp ventures iii, in which we retained an effective 26% interest, has been accounted for as an equity method investment. interest and other income, net. interest and other income, net increased by $11.9 million, to $34.8 million, for the year ended december 31, 2006. the increase was primarily related to $3.5 million of interest income from a $300 million investment in senior secured notes receivable purchased on november 17, 2006, which accrues interest at a rate of 9.625%. in addition, we recognized income of $7.3 million in connection with a prepayment premium we received in 2006 upon the early repayment of a secured loan receivable of $30.0 million with an original maturity of may 1, 2010 and an interest rate of 11.4%. minority interests' share of earnings. for the year ended december 31, 2006, minority interests' share of earnings increased $1.9 million, to $14.8 million. this increase was primarily due to the minority interest holders in our hcp birmingham portfolio llc and hcpi vpi sorrento ii, llc consolidated joint ventures. these joint ventures were formed in 2006 in connection with our acquisitions of a medical campus and life science facilities, respectively. discontinued operations. income from discontinued operations for the year ended december 31, 2006 was $338.4 million, compared to $82.0 million for the comparable period in the prior year. the change was primarily due to an increase in gains on real estate dispositions of $259.1 million, net of impairments, partially offset by a decline in operating income from discontinued operations of 59 $2.8 million. discontinued operations for the year ended december 31, 2006, included 184 properties compared to 180 properties for the year ended december 31, 2005. during the year ended december 31, 2006, we sold 83 properties for $512 million, as compared to 18 properties for $65 million during the year ended december 31, 2005. liquidity and capital resources our principal liquidity needs are to (i) fund normal operating expenses; (ii) repay the remaining $1.35 billion of seusa acquisition-related borrowings; (iii) meet debt service requirements, including with respect to $300 million of our senior unsecured notes maturing in 2008 and outstanding borrowings on our lines of credit; (iv) fund capital expenditures, including tenant improvements and leasing costs; (v) fund acquisition and development activities; and (vi) make minimum distributions required to maintain our reit qualification under the code. we believe these needs will be satisfied using cash flows generated by operations, provided by financing activities, sales of assets and/or contributions of assets to joint ventures during the next twelve months. access to capital markets impacts our cost of capital and our ability to refinance maturing indebtedness, as well as to fund future acquisitions and development through the issuance of additional securities or secured debt. our ability to access capital on favorable terms is dependent on various factors, including general market conditions, interest rates, credit ratings on our securities, perception of our potential future earnings and cash distributions and the market price of our capital stock. as of december 31, 2007, we have a credit rating of baa3 (stable) from moody's, bbb (negative outlook) from s&amp;p and bbb (stable) from fitch on our senior unsecured debt securities, and ba1(stable) from moody's, bbb- (negative outlook) from s&amp;p and bbb- (stable) from fitch on our preferred securities. we strive to maintain investment grade credit ratings on our senior debt securities. from time to time, we have financed significant entity level acquisitions such as crp and seusa using shorter term bridge and term loan facilities with the intent to repay or refinance these borrowings with the proceeds from future asset sales and joint venture contributions, and future debt and equity capital market transactions. this results in increased leverage ratios until such financing is repaid or refinanced. our outstanding bridge loan which funded our acquisition of seusa, as well as our new revolving credit facility, have financial covenants that become more restrictive over their term. we are required to manage our leverage and capital structure to maintain compliance with such covenants. during 2007, through our unsecured debt and equity issuances as well as asset dispositions, we repaid $1.4 billion of the seusa acquisition-related borrowings, reducing the balance to $1.35 billion at december 31, 2007. net cash provided by operating activities was $453.1 million and $341.2 million for 2007 and 2006, respectively. cash flow from operations reflects increased revenues partially offset by higher costs and expenses, and changes in receivables, payables, accruals and deferred revenue. our cash flows from operations are dependent upon the occupancy level of multi-tenant buildings, rental rates on leases, our tenants' performance on their lease obligations, the level of operating expenses and other factors. net cash used in investing activities was $2.9 billion during 2007 and principally reflects the net effect of: (i) $3.0 billion used to acquire seusa, (ii) $425.5 million used to fund acquisitions and construction of real estate, (iii) $887.2 million received from the sales of facilities, (iv) $923.5 million used to fund our investment in loans receivable and debt securities, and (v) $478.3 million of distributions from unconsolidated joint ventures. during 2007 and 2006, we used $50 million and $19 million, respectively, to fund lease commissions and tenant and capital improvements. as a result of our seusa acquisition, we expect to fund development commitments of approximately $95.7 million for 2008. net cash provided by financing activities was $2.5 billion for 2007 and included proceeds of (i) $2.75 billion from borrowings under our bridge loan, (ii) $1.1 billion from senior note issuances, (iii) $618.9 million from common stock issuances, (iv) $327.2 million of net borrowings under our bank 60 lines of credit and (v) $143.4 million from mortgage debt issuances. these proceeds were partially offset by or used for the repayment of our former term and partial repayment of various bridge loans aggregating $1.9 billion and payment of common and preferred dividends aggregating $393.6 million. in order to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we must distribute at least 90% of our taxable income to our stockholders. accordingly, we intend to continue to make regular quarterly distributions to holders of our common and preferred stock. at december 31, 2007, we held approximately $28.2 million in deposits and $35.1 million in irrevocable letters of credit from commercial banks securing tenants' lease obligations and borrowers' loan obligations. we may draw upon the letters of credit or depository accounts if there are defaults under the related leases or loans. amounts available under letters of credit could change based upon facility operating conditions and other factors, and such changes may be material. debt bank lines of credit and bridge and term loans. on january 22, 2007, the company repaid all amounts outstanding under a former $1.7 billion term loan with proceeds from capital market and joint venture transactions. as of december 31, 2007, all amounts outstanding under our previous $1.0 billion, three-year revolving line of credit facility were repaid. in connection with the seusa acquisition, on august 1, 2007, we terminated our former $1.0 billion revolving line of credit facility and closed on a $2.75 billion bridge loan and a $1.5 billion revolving line of credit facility with a syndicate of banks. we incurred a charge of $6.2 million related to the write-off of unamortized loan fees associated with our previous revolving line of credit facility that was terminated in august 2007. as of december 31, 2007, the outstanding balance of our bridge loan was $1.35 billion. our bridge loan has an initial maturity date of july 31, 2008, and an extended maturity date of july 31, 2009 with the exercise of two optional 6-month extension options, subject to debt covenant compliance and extension fees. this bridge loan accrues interest at a rate per annum equal to libor plus a margin ranging from 0.425% to 1.25%, depending upon our debt ratings. based on our debt ratings on january 31, 2008, the margin on the bridge loan facility is 0.70%. our revolving line of credit facility has an initial $1.5 billion capacity, matures on august 1, 2011 and can be increased to $2.0 billion subject to certain conditions. this revolving line of credit accrues interest at a rate per annum equal to libor plus a margin ranging from 0.325% to 1.00%, depending upon our debt ratings. we pay a facility fee on the entire revolving commitment ranging from 0.10% to 0.25%, depending upon our debt ratings. the revolving line of credit facility contains a negotiated rate option, whereby the lenders participating in the line of credit facility bid on the interest to be charged, which may result in a reduced interest rate, and is available for up to 50% of borrowings. based on our debt ratings on january 31, 2008, the margin on the revolving line of credit facility is 0.55% and the facility fee is 0.15%. as of december 31, 2007, we had $951.7 million outstanding under this credit facility with a weighted average effective interest rate of 5.66% and $548.3 million of available, unused borrowing capacity. our revolving line of credit facility and bridge loan contain certain financial restrictions and other customary requirements. among other things, these covenants, using terms defined in the agreement, initially limit the ratio of (i) consolidated total indebtedness to consolidated total asset value to 75%, (ii) secured debt to consolidated total asset value to 30% and (iii) unsecured debt to consolidated unencumbered asset value to 90%. the agreement also requires that we maintain (i) a fixed charge coverage ratio, as defined in the agreement, of 1.50 times and (ii) a formula-determined minimum consolidated tangible net worth. a portion of these financial covenants become more restrictive over a period of approximately two years from origination date and ultimately (i) limit the ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to consolidated total asset value to 60%, (ii) limit the ratio 61 of unsecured debt to consolidated unencumbered asset value to 65% and (iii) require a fixed charge coverage ratio, as defined in the agreement, of 1.75 times. as of december 31, 2007, we were in compliance with each of these restrictions and requirements of our credit revolving credit facility and bridge loan. senior unsecured notes. at december 31, 2007, we had $3.8 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes outstanding. interest rates on the notes ranged from 4.88% to 7.07% with a weighted average rate of 6.18% at december 31, 2007. discounts and premiums are amortized to interest expense over the term of the related debt. on january 22, 2007, we issued $500 million of 6.00% senior unsecured notes due in 2017. the notes were priced at 99.323% of the principal amount for an effective yield of 6.09%. we received net proceeds of approximately $493 million, which proceeds were used to repay outstanding borrowings under our former term loan and revolving credit facilities. the senior unsecured notes contain certain covenants including limitations on debt and other customary terms. on october 15, 2007, we issued $600 million of 6.70% senior unsecured notes due in 2018. the notes were priced at 99.793% of the principal amount for an effective yield of 6.73%. we received net proceeds of approximately $595 million, which were used to repay outstanding borrowings under our bridge loan facility. the senior unsecured notes contain certain covenants including limitations on debt and other customary terms. mortgage debt. at december 31, 2007, we had $1.3 billion in mortgage debt secured by 199 healthcare facilities with a carrying amount of $2.7 billion. interest rates on the mortgage notes ranged from 3.33% to 8.63% with a weighted average rate of 6.02% at december 31, 2007. on april 27, 2007, in anticipation of closing hcp ventures iv, $122 million of 10-year term mortgage notes were placed with an interest rate of 5.53%. the proceeds from the placement of these notes were used to repay outstanding borrowings under our previous revolving line of credit facility and for other general corporate purposes. the instruments encumbering the properties typically restrict title transfer of the respective properties subject to the terms of the mortgage, prohibit additional liens, restrict prepayment, require payment of real estate taxes, maintenance of the properties in good condition, maintenance of insurance on the properties and include a requirement to obtain lender consent to enter into material tenant leases. other debt. at december 31, 2007, we had $108.5 million of non-interest bearing life care bonds at two of our ccrcs and non-interest bearing occupancy fee deposits at another of our senior housing facilities, all of which were payable to certain residents of the facilities (collectively "life care bonds"). at december 31, 2007, $39.4 million of the life care bonds were refundable to the residents upon the resident moving out or to their estate upon death, and $69.1 million of the life care bonds were refundable after the unit is successfully remarketed to a new resident. derivative financial instruments. during october and november 2007, we entered into two forward-starting interest rate swap contracts with notional amounts aggregating $900 million to hedge the benchmark interest rate component of anticipated interest payments resulting from forecasted issuances of unsecured, fixed rate debt. the derivative instruments have a mandatory cash settlement date of june 30, 2008. for a more detailed description of our derivative financial instruments, see item 7a of this report. 62 debt maturities the following table summarizes our stated debt maturities and scheduled principal repayments, excluding debt premiums and discounts, at december 31, 2007 (in thousands): year amount 2008 $ 500,392 2009(1) 1,621,844 2010 498,983 2011 1,381,769 2012 352,054 thereafter 3,172,262 $ 7,527,304 (1) includes the debt incurred in our acquisition of seusa, which closed august 1, 2007. we have a prospectus on file with the sec as part of a registration statement on form s-3, using a "shelf" registration process which expires in 2009. under this "shelf" process, we may sell from time to time any combination of the securities in one or more offerings. the securities described in the prospectus include, common stock, preferred stock and debt securities. each time we sell securities under the "shelf" registration, we will provide a prospectus supplement that will contain specific information about the terms of the securities being offered and of the offering. we may offer and sell the securities pursuant to this prospectus from time to time in one or more of the following ways: through underwriters or dealers, through agents, directly to purchasers or through a combination of any of these methods of sales. proceeds from the sale of these securities may be used for general corporate purposes, which may include repayment of indebtedness, working capital and potential acquisitions. during 2007, we issued approximately $564 million of common stock and $1.1 billion of senior unsecured notes under the "shelf." equity on january 19, 2007, we issued 6.8 million shares of our common stock. we received net proceeds of approximately $261 million, which were used to repay outstanding borrowings under our previous term loan and revolving credit facilities. on october 5, 2007, we issued 9 million shares of common stock and received net proceeds of approximately $302.6 million, which were used to repay outstanding borrowings under our bridge loan facility. at december 31, 2007, we had 4.0 million shares of 7.25% series e cumulative redeemable preferred stock, 7.8 million shares of 7.10% series f cumulative redeemable preferred stock and 216.8 million shares of common stock outstanding. during the year ended december 31, 2007, we issued approximately 1.6 million shares of our common stock under our dividend reinvestment and stock purchase plan, at an average price per share of $31.82, for aggregate proceeds of $50.9 million. we also received $8.1 million in proceeds from stock option exercises. at december 31, 2007, stockholders' equity totaled $4.1 billion and our equity securities had a market value of $7.8 billion. as of december 31, 2007, there were a total of 7.6 million downreit units outstanding in seven limited liability companies in which we are the managing member: (i) hcpi/tennessee, llc; (ii) hcpi/utah, llc; (iii) hcpi/utah ii, llc; (iv) hcpi/indiana, llc; (v) hcp dr california, llc; (vi) hcp dr alabama, llc; and (vii) hcp dr mdc, llc. the downreit units are redeemable for an amount of cash approximating the then-existing market value of shares of our common stock or, 63 at our option, shares of our common stock (subject to certain adjustments, such as stock splits and reclassifications). off-balance sheet arrangements we own interests in certain unconsolidated joint ventures, including hcp ventures ii, hcp ventures iii and hcp ventures iv, as described under note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. except in limited circumstances, our risk of loss is limited to our investment in the joint venture and any outstanding loans receivable. in addition, we have certain properties which serve as collateral for debt that is owed by a previous owner of certain of our facilities, as described under note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. our risk of loss for these certain properties is limited to the outstanding debt balance plus penalties, if any. we have no other material off-balance sheet arrangements that we expect would materially affect our liquidity and capital resources except those described below under "contractual obligations." contractual obligations the following table summarizes our material contractual payment obligations and commitments at december 31, 2007 (in thousands): total less than one year 2009-2010 2011-2012 more than five years senior unsecured notes and mortgage debt $ 5,117,108 $ 391,896 $ 770,827 $ 782,123 $ 3,172,262 development commitments(1) 95,684 77,189 18,495 revolving line of credit 951,700 951,700 bridge loan(2) 1,350,000 1,350,000 ground and other operating leases 190,317 4,744 9,400 9,273 166,900 other debt 108,496 108,496 interest 2,025,283 309,555 543,412 250,611 921,705 total $ 9,838,588 $ 891,880 $ 2,692,134 $ 1,993,707 $ 4,260,867 (1) represents construction and other commitments for developments in progress. (2) represents the outstanding debt balance incurred in our acquisition of seusa, which closed august 1, 2007. during 2007, we entered into two forward-starting interest rate swap contracts that we are mandatorily required to cash settle on june 30, 2008. for a more detail description of our derivative financial instruments, see item 7a of this report. inflation our leases often provide for either fixed increases in base rents or indexed escalators, based on the consumer price index or other measures, and/or additional rent based on increases in the tenants' operating revenues. substantially all of our mob leases require the tenant to pay a share of property operating costs such as real estate taxes, insurance and utilities. substantially all of our senior housing, life science, skilled nursing and hospital leases require the operator or tenant to pay all of the property operating costs or reimburse us for all such costs. we believe that inflationary increases in expenses will be offset, in part, by the operator or tenant expense reimbursements and contractual rent increases described above. new accounting pronouncements see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for the impact of new accounting standards. 64 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk. at december 31, 2007, we were exposed to market risks related to fluctuations in interest rates on approximately: (i) $952 million of variable rate line of credit borrowings, (ii) $1.35 billion of variable rate bridge financing, (iii) $196 million of variable rate mortgage notes payable, (iv) $325 million of variable rate senior unsecured notes and (v) $1 billion of variable rate mezzanine loans receivable. of the $196 million of variable rate mortgage notes payable outstanding, $46 million has been hedged through interest rate swap contracts. of our consolidated debt of $7.5 billion at december 31, 2007, excluding the $46 million of variable rate debt where the rates have been swapped to a fixed rate, approximately 37% is at variable interest rates. interest rate fluctuations will generally not affect our future earnings or cash flows on our fixed rate debt, loans receivable or debt securities unless such instruments mature or are otherwise terminated. however, interest rate changes will affect the fair value of our fixed rate instruments. conversely, changes in interest rates on variable rate debt and loans receivable would change our future earnings and cash flows, but not significantly affect the fair value of those instruments. assuming a one percentage point increase in the interest rate related to the variable-rate debt and variable-rate loans, and assuming no change in the outstanding balance as of december 31, 2007, interest expense, net of interest income, for 2007 would increase by approximately $28 million, or $0.13 per common share on a diluted basis. we use derivative financial instruments in the normal course of business to manage or hedge interest rate risk. we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. derivatives are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value in accordance with sfas no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities . see note 16 to the consolidated financial statements for further information in this regard. the following table summarizes our interest rate swap contracts outstanding as of december 31, 2007 (dollars in thousands): date entered effective date swap end date(2) pay fixed rate receive floating rate index notional amount fair value july 13, 2005 july 19, 2005 july 15, 2020 3.820 % bma swap index $ 45,600 $ (1,311 ) october 24, 2007 june 30, 2008 (1) june 30, 2018 4.999 3 month libor 500,000 (11,208 ) november 29, 2007 june 30, 2008 (1) june 30, 2018 4.648 3 month libor 400,000 2,022 total $ 945,600 $ (10,497 ) (1) at the effective date we are mandatorily required to cash settle the forward-starting interest rate swap at fair value. (2) swap end date represents the outside date of the interest rate swap for the purpose of establishing its fair value. to illustrate the effect of movements in the interest rate markets, we performed a market sensitivity analysis on the noted hedging instruments. to do so, we applied various basis point spreads, to the underlying interest rates of the derivative portfolio in order to determine the instruments' change in fair value. the following table summarizes the analysis performed (dollars in thousands): effects of change in interest rates date entered maturity date 50 basis points -50 basis points 100 basis points -100 basis points july 13, 2005 july 15, 2020 $ 1,700 $ (2,600 ) $ 4,400 $ (4,800 ) october 24, 2007 june 30, 2018 19,000 (20,000 ) 38,000 (39,000 ) november 29, 2007 june 30, 2018 15,000 (16,000 ) 30,000 (31,000 ) 65 market risk. we are directly and indirectly affected by changes in equity and bond markets. we have investments in marketable debt and equity securities classified as available for sale. gains and losses on these securities are recognized in income when realized and other-than-temporary impairment may be periodically recorded when identified. the initial indicator of impairment for marketable equity securities is a sustained decline in market price below the amount recorded for that investment. we consider a variety of factors, such as: the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been less than cost; the issuer's financial condition, capital strength and near-term prospects; any recent events specific to that issuer and economic conditions of its industry; and our investment horizon in relationship to an anticipated near-term recovery in the stock or bond price, if any. at december 31, 2007, the fair value and cost, or the new basis for those securities where a realized loss was recorded as a result of an other-than-temporary impairment, of marketable equity securities was $14 million, and the fair value of marketable debt securities was $289 million, with an original cost of $275 million. at december 31, 2006, the fair value of marketable equity securities was $15 million, with an original cost of $13 million, and the fair value of the marketable debt securities was $323 million, with an original cost of $300 million. the principal amount and the average interest rates for our mortgage loans receivable and debt categorized by maturity dates is presented in the table below. the fair value estimates for the mortgage loans receivable are based on our management's estimates on currently prevailing rates for comparable loans. the fair market value for our debt securities and senior notes payable are based on prevailing market prices. the fair market value estimates for secured loans and mortgage notes payable are based on discounting future cash flows utilizing current rates offered to us for loans and debt of the same type and remaining maturity. maturity 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 thereafter total fair value (dollars in thousands) loans receivable: loans receivable $ 84,549 $ 7,502 $ 20,158 $ 3,148 $ $ 950,128 $ 1,065,485 $ 1,068,897 weighted average interest rate 14.00 % 6.51 % 10.45 % 10.24 % % 9.17 % 9.29 % debt securities available for sale $ $ $ $ $ $ 275,000 $ 275,000 $ 289,163 weighted average interest rate % % % % % 9.62 % 9.62 % liabilities: variable-rate debt: line of credit $ $ $ $ 951,700 $ $ $ 951,700 $ 951,700 weighted average interest rate % % % 5.66 % % % 5.66 % bridge loan $ $ 1,350,000 $ $ $ $ $ 1,350,000 $ 1,350,000 weighted average interest rate % 6.13 % % % % % 6.13 % senior notes payable $ 300,000 $ $ $ $ $ 25,000 $ 325,000 $ 317,683 weighted average interest rate 5.44 % % % % % 5.89 % 5.60 % mortgage notes payable $ $ 31,041 $ 106,066 $ 33,000 $ 8,975 $ 16,534 $ 195,616 $ 196,766 weighted average interest rate % 7.01 % 5.54 % 6.82 % 7.37 % 4.98 % 5.99 % fixed-rate debt: senior notes payable $ $ $ 206,421 $ 300,000 $ 250,000 $ 2,762,000 $ 3,518,421 $ 3,385,736 weighted average interest rate % % 4.93 % 5.95 % 6.45 % 6.16 % 6.23 % mortgage notes payable $ 67,233 $ 186,666 $ 178,468 $ 92,292 $ 89,234 $ 464,178 $ 1,078,071 $ 1,082,236 weighted average interest rate 6.16 % 5.83 % 6.91 % 6.39 % 5.92 % 5.95 % 6.03 % other debt(1) $ 108,496 $ $ $ $ $ $ 108,496 $ 108,496 weighted average interest rate % % % % % % % (1) in connection with the crp merger on october 5, 2006, we assumed non-interest bearing life care bonds at two of our ccrcs and non-interest bearing occupancy fee deposits at another of our senior housing facilities, all of which are payable to certain residents of the facilities. item 8. financial statements and supplementary data see index to consolidated financial statements included in this report. 66 item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosures none. item 9a. controls and procedures disclosure controls and procedures. we maintain disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our reports under the securities exchange act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the sec's rules and forms and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our chief executive officer, chief financial officer and chief accounting officer, to allow for timely decisions regarding required disclosure. in designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives, and management is required to apply its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures. also, we have investments in certain unconsolidated entities. our disclosure controls and procedures with respect to such entities are substantially more limited than those we maintain with respect to our consolidated subsidiaries. as required by rule 13a-15(b) and 15d-15(b) of the securities exchange act of 1934, we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, and chief accounting officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of december 31, 2007. based upon that evaluation, our chief executive officer, chief financial officer and chief accounting officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective, as of december 31, 2007, at the reasonable assurance level. changes in internal control over financial reporting. there were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the exchange act) during the fourth quarter of 2007 to which this report relates that have materially affected, or are reasonable likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. management's annual report on internal control over financial reporting. management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in securities exchange act of 1934 rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f). under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our chief executive officer, chief financial officer and chief accounting officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. based on our evaluation under the framework in internal control integrated framework , our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of december 31, 2007. on august 1, 2007, we acquired slough estates usa inc. ("seusa"). consistent with published guidance of the sec, we excluded from our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2007, seusa's internal control over financial reporting. total assets and total revenues from the acquisition of seusa represent 27% and 8%, respectively, of our related consolidated financial statement amounts as of and for the year ended december 31, 2007. the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2007, has been audited by ernst &amp; young llp, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which is included herein. 67 report of independent registered public accounting firm the board of directors and stockholders of hcp, inc. we have audited hcp, inc.'s internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2007, based on criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (the coso criteria). hcp, inc.'s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying management's annual report on internal control over financial reporting. our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. we conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. we believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. a company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. a company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. as indicated in the accompanying management's annual report on internal control over financial reporting, management's assessment of and conclusion on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting did not include the internal controls of slough estates usa inc. which is included in the 2007 consolidated financial statements of hcp, inc. and constituted $3.3 billion and $2.4 billion of total and net assets, respectively, as of december 31, 2007 and $79.5 million and $24.5 million of revenues and net income, respectively, for the year then ended. our audit of internal control over financial reporting of hcp, inc. also did not include an evaluation of the internal control over financial reporting of slough estates usa inc. in our opinion, hcp, inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2007, based on the coso criteria. 68 we have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states), the consolidated balance sheets of hcp, inc. as of december 31, 2007 and 2006, and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended december 31, 2007 and our report dated february 11, 2008 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. /s/ ernst &amp; young llp irvine, california february 11, 2008 69 item 9b. other information none. part iii item 10. directors, executive officers and corporate governance our executive officers were as follows on february 1, 2008: name age position james f. flaherty iii 50 chairman and chief executive officer charles a. elcan 44 executive vice president medical office properties paul f. gallagher 47 executive vice president chief investment officer edward j. henning 54 executive vice president general counsel, chief administrative officer and corporate secretary marshall d. lees 54 executive vice president life science estates donald s. mcnutt 59 executive vice president operations mark a. wallace 50 executive vice president chief financial officer and treasurer we hereby incorporate by reference the information appearing under the captions "board of directors and executive officers," "code of business conduct," "board of directors and executive officers committees of the board" and "section 16(a) beneficial ownership reporting compliance" in the registrant's definitive proxy statement relating to its annual meeting of stockholders to be held on april 24, 2008. the company has filed, as exhibits to this annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2007, the certifications of its chief executive officer and chief financial officer required pursuant to section 302 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2004. on june 5, 2007, the company submitted to the new york stock exchange the annual ceo certification required pursuant to section 303a.12(a) of the new york stock exchange listed company manual. item 11. executive compensation we hereby incorporate by reference the information under the caption "executive compensation" in the registrant's definitive proxy statement relating to its 2008 annual meeting of stockholders to be held on april 24, 2008. item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters we hereby incorporate by reference the information under the captions "principal stockholders," "board of directors and executive officers" and "table of equity compensation plan information" in the registrant's definitive proxy statement relating to its 2008 annual meeting of stockholders to be held on april 24, 2008. item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence we hereby incorporate by reference the information under the captions "certain transactions" and "compensation committee interlocks and insider participation" in the registrant's definitive proxy statement relating to its 2008 annual meeting of stockholders to be held on april 24, 2008. item 14. principal accountant fees and services we hereby incorporate by reference under the caption "audit and non-audit fees" in the registrant's definitive proxy statement relating to its 2008 annual meeting of stockholders to be held on april 24, 2008. 70 item 15. exhibits, financial statements and financial statement schedules (a)(1) financial statements: report of independent registered public accounting firm financial statements consolidated balance sheets december 31, 2007 and 2006 consolidated statements of income for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 consolidated statements of stockholders' equity for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 consolidated statements of cash flows for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 notes to consolidated financial statements (a)(2) schedule ii: valuation and qualifying accounts schedule iii: real estate and accumulated depreciation note: all other schedules have been omitted because the required information is presented in the financial statements and the related notes or because the schedules are not applicable. (a)(3) exhibits: 2.1 agreement and plan of merger, dated as of may 1, 2006, by and among hcp, ocean acquisition 1, inc. and cnl retirement properties, inc. (incorporated herein by reference to hcp's current report on form 8-k (file no. 1-08895), filed may 4, 2006.) 2.2 share purchase agreement, dated as of june 3, 2007, by and between hcp and segro plc (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 2.1 to hcp's current report on form 8-k (file no. 1-08895), filed june 6, 2007). 3.1 articles of restatement of hcp (incorporated by reference herein to exhibit 3.1 to hcp's quarterly report on form 10-q (file no. 1-08895), filed october 30, 2007). 3.2 fourth amended and restated bylaws of hcp (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 3.1 to hcp's current report on form 8-k (file no. 1-08895), filed september 25, 2006). 3.2.1 amendment no. 1 to fourth amended and restated bylaws of hcp (incorporated by reference herein to exhibit 3.2.1 to hcp's quarterly report on form 10-q (file no. 1-08895), filed october 30, 2007). 4.1 indenture, dated as of september 1, 1993, between hcp and the bank of new york, as trustee (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 4.2 to hcp's registration statement on form s-3/a (registration no. 333-86654), filed may 21, 2002). 4.2 form of fixed rate note (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 4.2 to hcp's registration statement on form s-3 (registration no. 33-27671), filed march 20, 1989). 4.3 form of floating rate note (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 4.3 to hcp's registration statement on form s-3 (registration no. 33-27671), filed march 20, 1989). 4.4 registration rights agreement, dated as of november 20, 1998, by and between hcp and james d. bremner (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 4.8 to hcp's annual report on form 10-k (file no. 1-08895) for the year ended december 31, 1998). this exhibit is identical in all material respects to two other documents except the parties thereto. the parties to these other documents, other than hcp, were james p. revel and michael f. wiley. 71 4.5 registration rights agreement, dated as of january 20, 1999, by and between hcp and boyer castle dale medical clinic, l.l.c. (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 4.9 to hcp's annual report on form 10-k (file no. 1-08895) for the year ended december 31, 1998). this exhibit is identical in all material respects to 13 other documents except the parties thereto. the parties to these other documents, other than hcp, were boyer centerville clinic company, l.c., boyer elko, l.c., boyer desert springs, l.c., boyer grantsville medical, l.c., boyer-ogden medical associates, ltd., boyer ogden medical associates no. 2, ltd., boyer salt lake industrial clinic associates, ltd., boyer-st. mark's medical associates, ltd., boyer mckay-dee associates, ltd., boyer st. mark's medical associates #2, ltd., boyer iomega, l.c., boyer springville, l.c., and boyer primary care clinic associates, ltd. #2. 4.6 indenture, dated as of january 15, 1997, by and between american health properties, inc. (a company that merged with and into hcp) and the bank of new york, as trustee (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 4.1 to american health properties, inc.'s current report on form 8-k (file no. 1-08895), filed january 21, 1997). 4.7 first supplemental indenture, dated as of november 4, 1999, by and between hcp and the bank of new york, as trustee (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 4.4 to hcp's quarterly report on form 10-q (file no. 1-08895) for the quarter ended september 30, 1999). 4.8 registration rights agreement, dated as of august 17, 2001, by and among hcp, boyer old mill ii, l.c., boyer-research park associates, ltd., boyer research park associates vii, l.c., chimney ridge, l.c., boyer-foothill associates, ltd., boyer research park associates vi, l.c., boyer stansbury ii, l.c., boyer rancho vistoso, l.c., boyer-alta view associates, ltd., boyer kaysville associates, l.c., boyer tatum highlands dental clinic, l.c., amarillo bell associates, boyer evanston, l.c., boyer denver medical, l.c., boyer northwest medical center two, l.c., and boyer caldwell medical, l.c. (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 4.12 to hcp's annual report on form 10-k405 (file no. 1-08895) for the year ended december 31, 2001). 4.9 officers' certificate pursuant to section 301 of the indenture, dated as of september 1, 1993, by and between hcp and the bank of new york, as trustee, establishing a series of securities entitled "6.5% senior notes due february 15, 2006" (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 4.1 to hcp's current report on form 8-k (file no. 1-08895), filed february 21, 1996). 4.10 officers' certificate pursuant to section 301 of the indenture, dated as of september 1, 1993, by and between hcp and the bank of new york, as trustee, establishing a series of securities entitled "6 7 / 8 % mandatory par put remarketed securities due june 8, 2015" (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 4.1 to hcp's current report on form 8-k (file no. 1-08895), filed july 21, 1998). 4.11 officers' certificate pursuant to section 301 of the indenture, dated as of september 1, 1993, by and between hcp and the bank of new york, as trustee, establishing a series of securities entitled "6.45% senior notes due june 25, 2012" (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 4.1 to hcp's current report on form 8-k (file no. 1-08895), filed june 25, 2002). 4.12 officers' certificate pursuant to section 301 of the indenture, dated as of september 1, 1993, by and between hcp and the bank of new york, as trustee, establishing a series of securities entitled "6.00% senior notes due march 1, 2015" (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 3.1 to hcp's current report on form 8-k (file no. 1-08895), filed february 28, 2003). 72 4.13 officers' certificate pursuant to section 301 of the indenture, dated as of september 1, 1993, by and between hcp and the bank of new york, as trustee, establishing a series of securities entitled "5 5 / 8 % senior notes due may 1, 2017" (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 4.2 to hcp's current report on form 8-k (file no. 1-08895), filed april 27, 2005). 4.14 registration rights agreement, dated as of october 1, 2003, by and among hcp, charles crews, charles a. elcan, thomas w. hulme, thomas m. klaritch, r. wayne price, glenn t. preston, janet reynolds, angela m. playle, james a. croy, john klaritch as trustee of the 2002 trust f/b/o erica ann klaritch, john klaritch as trustee of the 2002 trust f/b/o adam joseph klaritch, john klaritch as trustee of the 2002 trust f/b/o thomas michael klaritch, jr. and john klaritch as trustee of the 2002 trust f/b/o nicholas james klaritch (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 4.16 to hcp's quarterly report on form 10-q (file no. 1-08895) for the quarter ended september 30, 2003). 4.15 amended and restated dividend reinvestment and stock purchase plan, dated as of october 23, 2003 (incorporated herein by reference to hcp's registration statement on form s-3 (registration no. 333-10939), dated december 5, 2003). 4.16 specimen of stock certificate representing the 7.25% series e cumulative redeemable preferred stock, par value $1.00 per share (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 4.1 of hcp's registration statement on form 8-a12b (file no. 1-08895), filed on september 12, 2003). 4.17 specimen of stock certificate representing the 7.1% series f cumulative redeemable preferred stock, par value $1.00 per share (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 4.1 of hcp's registration statement on form 8-a12b (file no. 1-08895), filed on december 2, 2003). 4.18 form of fixed rate global medium-term note (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 4.3 to hcp's current report on form 8-k (file no. 1-08895), filed november 20, 2003). 4.19 form of floating rate global medium-term note (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 4.4 to hcp's current report on form 8-k (file no. 1-08895), filed november 20, 2003). 4.20 registration rights agreement, dated as of july 22, 2005, by and among hcp, william p. gallaher, trustee for the william p. &amp; cynthia j. gallaher trust, dwayne j. clark, patrick r. gallaher, trustee for the patrick r. &amp; cynthia m. gallaher trust, jeffrey d. civian, trustee for the jeffrey d. civian trust dated august 8, 1986, jeffrey meyer, steven l. gallaher, richard coombs, larry l. wasem, joseph h. ward, jr., trustee for the joseph h. ward, jr. and pamela k. ward trust, borue h. o'brien, william r. mabry, charles n. elsbree, trustee for the charles n. elsbree jr. living trust dated february 14, 2002, gary a. robinson, thomas h. persons, trustee for the persons family revocable trust under trust dated february 15, 2005, glen hammel, marilyn e. montero, joseph g. lin, trustee for the lin revocable living trust, ned b. stein, john gladstein, trustee for the john &amp; andrea gladstein family trust dated february 11, 2003, john gladstein, trustee for the john &amp; andrea gladstein family trust dated february 11, 2003, francis connelly, trustee for the the francis j &amp; shannon a connelly trust, al coppin, trustee for the al coppin trust, stephen b. mccullagh, trustee for the stephen b. &amp; pamela mccullagh trust dated october 22, 2001, and larry l. wasem sep ira (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 4.24 to hcp's quarterly report on form 10-q (file no. 1-08895) for the quarter ended june 30, 2005). 73 4.21 officers' certificate pursuant to section 301 of the indenture, dated as of september 1, 1993, by and between hcp and the bank of new york, as trustee, setting forth the terms of hcp's fixed rate medium-term notes and floating rate medium-term notes (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 4.2 to hcp's current report on form 8-k (file no. 1-08895), filed february 17, 2006). 4.22 form of fixed rate global medium-term note (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 4.3 to hcp's current report on form 8-k (file no. 1-08895), filed february 17, 2006). 4.23 form of floating rate global medium-term note (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 4.4 to hcp's current report on form 8-k (file no. 1-08895), filed february 17, 2006). 4.24 form of floating rate notes due 2008 (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 4.1 to hcp's current report on form 8-k (file no. 1-08895), filed september 19, 2006). 4.25 form of 5.95% notes due 2011 (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 4.2 to hcp's current report on form 8-k (file no. 1-08895), filed september 19, 2006). 4.26 form of 6.30% notes due 2016 (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 4.3 to hcp's current report on form 8-k (file no. 1-08895), filed september 19, 2006). 4.27 form of 5.65% senior notes due 2013 (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 4.1 to hcp's current report on form 8-k (file no. 1-08895), filed december 4, 2006). 4.28 form of 6.00% senior notes due 2017 (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 4.1 to hcp's current report on form 8-k (file no. 1-08895), filed january 22, 2007). 4.29 officers' certificate (including form of 6.70% senior notes due 2018 as annex a thereto), dated october 15, 2007, pursuant to section 301 of the indenture, dated as of september 1, 1993, by and between hcp and the bank of new york trust company, n.a., as successor trustee to the bank of new york, establishing a series of securities entitled "6.70% senior notes due 2018" (incorporated by reference herein to exhibit 4.29 to hcp's quarterly report on form 10-q (file no. 1-08895), filed october 30, 2007). 4.30 acknowledgment and consent, dated as of may 11, 2007, by and among zions first national bank, kc gardner company, l.c., hcpi/utah, llc, gardner property holdings, l.c. and hcp (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 4.29 to hcp's quarterly report on form 10-q (file no. 1-08895) for the quarter ended june 30, 2007). 4.31 acknowledgment and consent, dated as of may 11, 2007, by and among zions first national bank, kc gardner company, l.c., hcpi/utah ii, llc, gardner property holdings, l.c. and hcp (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 4.30 to hcp's quarterly report on form 10-q (file no. 1-08895) for the quarter ended june 30, 2007). 10.1 amendment no. 1, dated as of may 30, 1985, to partnership agreement of health care property partners, a california general partnership, the general partners of which consist of hcp and certain affiliates of tenet (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 10.1 to hcp's annual report on form 10-k (file no. 1-08895) for the year ended december 31, 1985). 10.2 second amended and restated directors stock incentive plan (incorporated herein by reference to appendix a to hcp's proxy statement filed march 21, 1997).* 74 10.2.1 first amendment to second amended and restated directors stock incentive plan, effective as of november 3, 1999 (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 10.1 to hcp's quarterly report on form 10-q (file no. 1-08895) for the quarter ended september 30, 1999).* 10.2.2 second amendment to second amended and restated directors stock incentive plan, effective as of january 4, 2000 (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 10.17 to hcp's annual report on form 10-k (file no. 1-08895) for the year ended december 31, 1999).* 10.3 second amended and restated stock incentive plan (incorporated herein by reference to appendix b to hcp's proxy statement filed march 21, 1997).* 10.3.1 first amendment to second amended and restated stock incentive plan, effective as of november 3, 1999 (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 10.3 to hcp's quarterly report on form 10-q (file no. 1-08895) for the quarter ended september 30, 1999).* 10.4 2000 stock incentive plan, amended and restated effective as of may 7, 2003 (incorporated herein by reference to annex a to hcp's proxy statement (file no. 1-08895) for the annual meeting of stockholders held on may 7, 2003).* 10.4.1 first amendment to amended and restated 2000 stock incentive plan (effective as of may 7, 2003) (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 10.1 to hcp's current report on form 8-k (file no. 1-08895), filed february 3, 2005).* 10.5 second amended and restated director deferred compensation plan (effective as of october 25, 2007).* 10.6 amended and restated limited liability company agreement of hcpi/indiana, llc, dated as of november 20, 1998 (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 10.15 to hcp's annual report on form 10-k (file no. 1-08895) for the year ended december 31, 1998). 10.7 amended and restated limited liability company agreement of hcpi/utah, llc, dated as of january 20, 1999 (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 10.16 to hcp's annual report on form 10-k (file no. 1-08895) for the year ended december 31, 1998). 10.8 cross-collateralization, cross-contribution and cross-default agreement, dated as of july 20, 2000, by and between hcp medical office buildings ii, llc and texas hcp medical office buildings, l.p., for the benefit of first union national bank (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 10.21 to hcp's quarterly report on form 10-q (file no. 1-08895) for the quarter ended september 30, 2000). 10.9 cross-collateralization, cross-contribution and cross-default agreement, dated as of august 31, 2000, by and between hcp medical office buildings i, llc and meadowdome, llc, for the benefit of first union national bank (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 10.22 to hcp's quarterly report on form 10-q (file no. 1-08895) for the quarter ended september 30, 2000). 10.10 amended and restated limited liability company agreement of hcpi/utah ii, llc, dated as of august 17, 2001 (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 10.21 to hcp's annual report on form 10-k405 (file no. 1-08895) for the year ended december 31, 2001). 10.10.1 amendment no. 1 to amended and restated limited liability company agreement of hcpi/utah ii, llc, dated as of october 30, 2001 (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 10.22 to hcp's annual report on form 10-k405 (file no. 1-08895) for the year ended december 31, 2001). 75 10.11 employment agreement, dated as of october 26, 2005, by and between hcp and james f. flaherty iii (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 10.13 to hcp's quarterly report on form 10-q (file no. 1-08895) for the quarter ended september 30, 2005).* 10.12 amended and restated limited liability company agreement of hcpi/tennessee, llc, dated as of october 2, 2003 (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 10.28 to hcp's quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarter ended september 30, 2003). 10.12.1 amendment no. 1 to amended and restated limited liability company agreement of hcpi/tennessee, llc, dated as of september 29, 2004 (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 10.37 to hcp's quarterly report on form 10-q (file no. 1-08895) for the quarter ended september 30, 2004). 10.12.2 amendment no. 2 to amended and restated limited liability company agreement of hcpi/tennessee, llc, dated as of october 29, 2004 (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 10.43 to hcp's annual report on form 10-k (file no. 1-08895) for the year ended december 31, 2004). 10.12.3 amendment no. 3 to amended and restated limited liability company agreement of hcpi/tennessee, llc and new member joinder agreement, dated as of october 19, 2005, by and among hcp, hcpi/tennessee, llc and a. daniel weyland (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 10.14.3 to hcp's quarterly report on form 10-q (file no. 1-08895) for the quarter ended september 30, 2005). 10.12.4 amendment no. 4 to amended and restated limited liability company agreement of hcpi/tennessee, llc, effective as of january 1, 2007. 10.13 employment agreement, dated as of october 1, 2003, by and between hcp and charles a. elcan (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 10.29 to hcp's quarterly report on form 10-q (file no. 1-08895) for the quarter ended september 30, 2003).* 10.13.1 amendment no.1 to the employment agreement, dated as of october 1, 2003, by and between hcp and charles a. elcan (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 10.5 to hcp's current report on form 8-k (file no. 1-08895), filed february 3, 2005).* 10.14 form of restricted stock agreement for employees and consultants, effective as of may 7, 2003, relating to hcp's amended and restated 2000 stock incentive plan (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 10.30 to hcp's annual report on form 10-k (file no. 1-08895) for the year ended december 31, 2003).* 10.15 form of restricted stock agreement for directors, effective as of may 7, 2003, relating to hcp's amended and restated 2000 stock incentive plan (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 10.31 to hcp's annual report on form 10-k (file no. 1-08895) for the year ended december 31, 2003).* 10.16 amended and restated executive retirement plan, effective as of may 7, 2003 (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 10.34 to hcp's annual report on form 10-k (file no. 1-08895) for the year ended december 31, 2003).* 10.17 form of ceo performance restricted stock unit agreement with five-year installment vesting (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 10.42 to hcp's annual report on form 10-k (file no. 1-08895) for the year ended december 31, 2006).* 10.18 form of ceo performance restricted stock unit agreement with three-year cliff vesting (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 10.43 to hcp's annual report on form 10-k (file no. 1-08895) for the year ended december 31, 2006).* 76 10.19 form of employee performance restricted stock unit agreement with five-year installment vesting.* 10.20 ceo restricted stock unit agreement, relating to hcp's amended and restated 2000 stock incentive plan (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 10.29 to hcp's quarterly report on form 10-q (file no. 1-08895) for the quarter ended september 30, 2005).* 10.21 form of directors and officers indemnification agreement.* 10.22 form of employee nonqualified stock option agreement with five-year installment vesting (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 10.37 to hcp's quarterly report on form 10-q (file no. 1-08895) for the quarter ended june 30, 2006).* 10.23 form of non-employee director restricted stock award agreement with five-year installment vesting, (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 10.38 to hcp's quarterly report on form 10-q (file no. 1-08895) for the quarter ended june 30, 2006).* 10.24 form of non-employee directors stock-for-fees program (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 10.1 to hcp's current report on form 8-k (file no. 1-08895), filed august 2, 2006).* 10.25 stock unit award agreement, dated august 14, 2006, by and between hcp and james f. flaherty iii (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 10.1 to hcp's current report on form 8-k (file no. 1-08895), filed august 17, 2006).* 10.26 $2,750,000,000 credit agreement, dated as of august 1, 2007, by and among hcp, the lenders party thereto and bank of america, n.a., as administrative agent (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 10.1 to hcp's current report on form 8-k (file no. 1-08895), filed august 6, 2007). 10.27 $1,500,000,000 credit agreement, dated as of august 1, 2007, by and among hcp, the lenders party thereto and bank of america, n.a., as administrative agent (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 10.2 to hcp's current report on form 8-k (file no. 1-08895), filed august 6, 2007). 10.28 change in control severance plan (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 10.41 to hcp's quarterly report on form 10-q (file no. 1-08895), filed october 30, 2007).* 10.29 2006 performance incentive plan (incorporated herein by reference to exhibit a to hcp's proxy statement (file no. 1-08895) for the annual meeting of stockholders held on may 11, 2006).* 10.30 form of mezzanine loan agreement defining hcp's rights and obligations in connection with its manor care investment. 10.31 form of intercreditor agreement defining hcp's rights and obligations in connection with its manor care investment. 10.32 form of cash management agreement defining hcp's rights and obligations in connection with its manor care investment. 10.33 form of pledge and security agreement defining hcp's rights and obligations in connection with its manor care investment. 10.34 form of promissory note defining hcp's rights and obligations in connection with its manor care investment. 10.35 form of guaranty agreement defining hcp's rights and obligations in connection with its manor care investment. 77 10.36 form of assignment and assumption agreement entered into in connection with hcp's manor care investment. 10.37 form of omnibus assignment entered into in connection with hcp's manor care investment. 10.38 executive bonus program (incorporated herein by reference to hcp's current report on form 8-k (file no. 1-08895), filed january 31, 2008. 21.1 subsidiaries of the company. 23.1 consent of independent registered public accounting firm. 31.1 certification by james f. flaherty iii, hcp's principal executive officer, pursuant to securities exchange act rule 13a-14(a). 31.2 certification by mark a. wallace, hcp's principal financial officer, pursuant to securities exchange act rule 13a-14(a). 32.1 certification by james f. flaherty iii, hcp's principal executive officer, pursuant to securities exchange act rule 13a-14(b) and 18 u.s.c. section 1350. 32.2 certification by mark a. wallace, hcp's principal financial officer, pursuant to securities exchange act rule 13a-14(b) and 18 u.s.c. section 1350. * management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 78 signatures pursuant to the requirements of section 13 or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. dated: february 12, 2008 hcp, inc. (registrant) /s/ james f. flaherty james f. flaherty iii, chairman and chief executive officer (principal executive officer) pursuant to the requirements of the securities exchange act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated. signature title date /s/ james f. flaherty iii james f. flaherty iii chairman and chief executive officer (principal executive officer) february 12, 2008 /s/ mark a. wallace mark a. wallace executive vice president, chief financial officer and treasurer (principal financial officer) february 12, 2008 /s/ george p. doyle george p. doyle senior vice president and chief accounting officer (principal accounting officer) february 12, 2008 /s/ mary a. cirillo-goldberg mary a. cirillo-goldberg director february 12, 2008 /s/ robert r. fanning, jr. robert r. fanning, jr. director february 12, 2008 /s/ christine garvey christine garvey director february 12, 2008 /s/ david b. henry david b. henry director february 12, 2008 79 /s/ michael d. mckee michael d. mckee director february 12, 2008 /s/ harold m. messmer, jr. harold m. messmer, jr. director february 12, 2008 /s/ peter l. rhein peter l. rhein director february 12, 2008 /s/ kenneth b. roath kenneth b. roath director february 12, 2008 /s/ richard m. rosenberg richard m. rosenberg director february 12, 2008 /s/ joseph p. sullivan joseph p. sullivan director february 12, 2008 80 index to consolidated financial statements page report of independent registered public accounting firm f-2 consolidated balance sheets f-3 consolidated statements of income f-4 consolidated statements of stockholders' equity f-5 consolidated statements of cash flows f-6 notes to consolidated financial statements f-7 schedule ii: valuation and qualifying accounts f-57 schedule iii: real estate and accumulated depreciation f-58 f-1 report of independent registered public accounting firm the board of directors and stockholders of hcp, inc. we have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of hcp, inc. as of december 31, 2007 and 2006, and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended december 31, 2007. our audits also include the financial statement schedules-schedule ii: valuation and qualifying accounts and schedule iii: real estate and accumulated depreciation. these financial statements and schedules are the responsibility of the company's management. our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedules based on our audits. we conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. an audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. an audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. we believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. in our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of hcp, inc. at december 31, 2007 and 2006, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended december 31, 2007, in conformity with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles. also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedules, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein. we also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states), hcp, inc.'s internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2007, based on criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission and our report dated february 11, 2008 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. /s/ ernst &amp; young llp irvine, california february 11, 2008 f-2 hcp, inc. consolidated balance sheets (in thousands, except share and per share data) december 31, 2007 2006 assets real estate: buildings and improvements $ 7,984,935 $ 5,755,944 development costs and construction in progress 372,947 42,346 land 1,620,721 650,894 less accumulated depreciation and amortization (728,804 ) (519,965 ) net real estate 9,249,799 5,929,219 net investment in direct financing leases 640,052 678,013 loans receivable, net 1,065,485 196,480 investments in and advances to unconsolidated joint ventures 248,894 25,389 accounts receivable, net of allowance of $23,109 and $24,205, respectively 44,892 31,026 cash and cash equivalents 96,269 58,405 restricted cash 36,427 40,786 intangible assets, net 623,650 380,568 real estate held for sale, net 171 512,187 real estate held for contribution 1,684,341 other assets, net 516,133 476,335 total assets $ 12,521,772 $ 10,012,749 liabilities and stockholders' equity bank lines of credit $ 951,700 $ 624,500 bridge and term loans 1,350,000 504,593 senior unsecured notes 3,819,950 2,748,522 mortgage debt 1,280,761 1,288,681 mortgage debt on assets held for sale 38,617 mortgage debt on assets held for contribution 889,356 other debt 108,496 107,746 intangible liabilities, net 278,553 134,050 accounts payable and accrued liabilities 233,342 200,088 deferred revenue 55,990 20,795 total liabilities 8,078,792 6,556,948 minority interests: joint venture partners 33,436 34,211 non-managing member unitholders 305,835 127,554 total minority interests 339,271 161,765 commitments and contingencies stockholders' equity: preferred stock, $1.00 par value: 50,000,000 shares authorized; 11,820,000 shares issued and outstanding, liquidation preference of $25 per share 285,173 285,173 common stock, $1.00 par value: 750,000,000 shares authorized; 216,818,780 and 198,599,054 shares issued and outstanding, respectively 216,819 198,599 additional paid-in capital 3,724,739 3,108,908 cumulative dividends in excess of earnings (120,920 ) (316,369 ) accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (2,102 ) 17,725 total stockholders' equity 4,103,709 3,294,036 total liabilities and stockholders' equity $ 12,521,772 $ 10,012,749 see accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. f-3 hcp, inc. consolidated statements of income (in thousands, except per share data) year ended december 31, 2007 2006 2005 revenues: rental and related revenues $ 835,722 $ 483,921 $ 340,484 tenant recoveries 69,354 32,067 21,067 income from direct financing leases 63,852 15,008 investment management fee income 13,581 3,895 3,184 982,509 534,891 364,735 costs and expenses: interest 357,024 211,869 106,224 depreciation and amortization 274,348 132,916 85,781 operating 186,550 88,521 58,710 general and administrative 70,930 47,195 31,834 impairments 3,577 888,852 484,078 282,549 operating income 93,657 50,813 82,186 equity income (loss) from unconsolidated joint ventures 5,645 8,331 (1,123 ) gain on sale of real estate interest 10,141 interest and other income, net 75,676 34,816 22,905 minority interests' share of earnings (24,356 ) (14,805 ) (12,950 ) income from continuing operations 160,763 79,155 91,018 discontinued operations: operating income 24,668 69,113 71,883 impairments (6,004 ) gain on sales of real estate 403,584 275,283 10,156 428,252 338,392 82,039 net income 589,015 417,547 173,057 preferred stock dividends (21,130 ) (21,130 ) (21,130 ) net income applicable to common shares $ 567,885 $ 396,417 $ 151,927 basic earnings per common share: continuing operations $ 0.67 $ 0.39 $ 0.52 discontinued operations 2.06 2.28 0.61 net income applicable to common shares $ 2.73 $ 2.67 $ 1.13 diluted earnings per common share: continuing operations $ 0.67 $ 0.39 $ 0.52 discontinued operations 2.04 2.27 0.60 net income applicable to common shares $ 2.71 $ 2.66 $ 1.12 weighted average shares used to calculate earnings per common share: basic 207,924 148,236 134,673 diluted 209,254 148,841 135,560 dividends declared per common share: $ 1.78 $ 1.70 $ 1.68 see accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. f-4 hcp, inc. consolidated statements of stockholders' equity (in thousands, except per share data) year ended december 31, 2007 2006 2005 preferred stock, $1.00 par value: shares, beginning and ending 11,820 11,820 11,820 amounts, beginning and ending $ 285,173 $ 285,173 $ 285,173 common stock, shares: shares at beginning of year 198,599 136,194 133,658 issuance of common stock, net 17,810 61,975 1,100 exercise of stock options 410 430 1,436 shares at end of year 216,819 198,599 136,194 common stock, $1.00 par value: balance at beginning of year $ 198,599 $ 136,194 $ 133,658 issuance of common stock, net 17,810 61,975 1,100 exercise of stock options 410 430 1,436 balance at end of year $ 216,819 $ 198,599 $ 136,194 additional paid-in capital: balance at beginning of year $ 3,108,908 $ 1,446,349 $ 1,394,549 issuance of common stock, net 596,719 1,646,869 23,874 exercise of stock options 7,704 7,458 21,429 amortization of deferred compensation 11,408 8,232 6,497 balance at end of year $ 3,724,739 $ 3,108,908 $ 1,446,349 cumulative dividends in excess of earnings: balance at beginning of year $ (316,369 ) $ (467,102 ) $ (391,770 ) net income 589,015 417,547 173,057 preferred dividends (21,130 ) (21,130 ) (21,130 ) common dividend ($1.78, $1.70 and $1.68 per share) (372,436 ) (245,684 ) (227,259 ) balance at end of year $ (120,920 ) $ (316,369 ) $ (467,102 ) accumulated other comprehensive income (loss): balance at beginning of year $ 17,725 $ (848 ) $ (2,168 ) change in net unrealized gains on securities: unrealized gains (losses) (10,490 ) 24,096 1,080 less reclassification adjustment realized in net income 176 (640 ) unrealized gains (losses) on cash flow hedges (9,647 ) (4,984 ) 388 changes in supplemental executive retirement plan obligation 102 101 (148 ) foreign currency translation adjustment 32 balance at end of year $ (2,102 ) $ 17,725 $ (848 ) total comprehensive income: net income $ 589,015 $ 417,547 $ 173,057 other comprehensive income (loss) (19,827 ) 18,573 1,320 total comprehensive income $ 569,188 $ 436,120 $ 174,377 see accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. f-5 hcp, inc. consolidated statements of cash flows (in thousands) year ended december 31, 2007 2006 2005 cash flows from operating activities: net income $ 589,015 $ 417,547 $ 173,057 adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities: depreciation and amortization of real estate, in-place lease and other intangibles: continuing operations 274,348 132,916 85,781 discontinued operations 6,831 21,153 22,185 amortization of above and (below) market lease intangibles, net (6,056 ) (797 ) (1,912 ) stock-based compensation 11,408 8,232 6,495 amortization of debt issuance costs 20,413 14,533 3,181 recovery of loan losses (386 ) (56 ) straight-line rents (49,725 ) (18,210 ) (7,257 ) interest accretion (8,739 ) (2,513 ) deferred rental revenue 9,027 (518 ) 545 equity (income) loss from unconsolidated joint ventures (5,645 ) (8,331 ) 1,123 distributions of earnings from unconsolidated joint ventures 5,264 8,331 minority interests' share of earnings 24,356 14,805 12,950 impairments on real estate 9,581 gain on sales of real estate and real estate interest (413,725 ) (275,283 ) (10,156 ) securities gains, net (2,233 ) (1,861 ) (4,517 ) changes in: accounts receivable (13,115 ) 1,295 1,521 other assets (14,621 ) (8,263 ) (8,385 ) accounts payable and accrued liabilities 26,634 28,579 7,674 net cash provided by operating activities 453,051 341,196 282,229 cash flows from investing activities: cash used in seusa acquisition, net of cash acquired (2,982,689 ) cash used in cnl retirement properties merger, net of cash acquired (3,325,046 ) cash used in purchase of hcp mop interest, net of cash acquired (138,163 ) cash used in other acquisitions and development of real estate (425,464 ) (480,140 ) (447,152 ) lease commissions and tenant and capital improvements (49,669 ) (18,932 ) (7,138 ) proceeds from sales of real estate 887,218 512,317 64,564 contributions to unconsolidated joint ventures (3,641 ) distributions in excess of earnings from unconsolidated joint ventures 478,293 32,115 6,973 purchase of marketable securities (26,647 ) (13,670 ) (6,768 ) proceeds from the sale of marketable securities 53,817 7,550 6,482 principal repayments on loans receivable and direct financing leases 104,009 63,535 19,138 investment in loans receivable (923,534 ) (329,724 ) (53,293 ) decrease (increase) in restricted cash 192 (1,894 ) 2,408 net cash used in investing activities (2,888,115 ) (3,692,052 ) (414,786 ) cash flows from financing activities: net borrowings (repayments) under bank lines of credit 327,200 365,900 (41,500 ) repayments of term and bridge loans (1,904,593 ) (1,901,136 ) borrowings under term and bridge loans 2,750,000 2,405,729 repayments of mortgage debt (97,882 ) (66,689 ) (17,889 ) issuance of mortgage debt 143,421 619,911 repayments of senior unsecured notes (20,000 ) (255,000 ) (31,000 ) issuance of senior unsecured notes 1,100,000 1,550,000 450,000 debt issuance costs (27,044 ) (32,313 ) (4,668 ) net proceeds from the issuance of common stock and exercise of options 618,854 989,039 45,238 dividends paid on common and preferred stock (393,566 ) (266,814 ) (248,389 ) settlement of cash flow hedges (4,354 ) distributions to minority interests (23,462 ) (16,354 ) (14,855 ) net cash provided by financing activities 2,472,928 3,387,919 136,937 net increase in cash and cash equivalents 37,864 37,063 4,380 cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year 58,405 21,342 16,962 cash and cash equivalents, end of year $ 96,269 $ 58,405 $ 21,342 see accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. f-6 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (1) business hcp, inc. is a self-administered real estate investment trust ("reit") that, together with its consolidated entities (collectively, "hcp" or the "company"), invests primarily in real estate serving the healthcare industry in the united states. (2) summary of significant accounting policies use of estimates management is required to make estimates and assumptions in the preparation of financial statements in conformity with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles ("gaap"). these estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. actual results could differ from those estimates. principles of consolidation the consolidated financial statements include the accounts of hcp, its wholly-owned subsidiaries and its controlled, through voting rights or other means, joint ventures. all material intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation. the company applies financial accounting standards board ("fasb") interpretation no. 46r, consolidation of variable interest entities , as revised ("fin 46r"), for arrangements with variable interest entities. fin 46r provides guidance on the identification of entities for which control is achieved through means other than voting rights ("variable interest entities" or "vies") and the determination of which business enterprise is the primary beneficiary of the vie. a variable interest entity is broadly defined as an entity where either (i) the equity investors as a group, if any, do not have a controlling financial interest or (ii) the equity investment at risk is insufficient to finance that entity's activities without additional subordinated financial support. the company consolidates investments in vies when the company is the primary beneficiary of the vie at either the creation of the variable interest entity or upon the occurrence of a reconsideration event. at december 31, 2007, the company leased 81 properties, with a carrying value of $1.3 billion, to a total of nine tenants that have been identified as vies ("vie tenants") and has a loan with a carrying value of $85 million to a borrower that has been identified as a vie. the company acquired these leases and loan on october 5, 2006 in its merger with cnl retirement properties, inc. ("crp"). crp determined it was not the primary beneficiary of these vies, and the company is generally required to carry forward crp's accounting conclusions after the acquisition relative to their primary beneficiary assessments. on december 21, 2007, the company made an investment of approximately $900 million in mezzanine loans where each mezzanine borrower has been identified as a vie. the company has also determined that it is not the primary beneficiary of these vies. at december 31, 2007, the company's maximum exposure to losses resulting from its involvement in vies was limited to the future minimum lease payments of approximately $1.5 billion from the vie tenants and the carrying value of approximately $1.0 billion of loans made to the vie borrowers. if the company determines that it is the primary beneficiary upon a reconsideration event in the future, the company's financial statements would include the results of the vie (either tenant or borrower) rather than the results of the company's lease or loan to the vie. the company applies emerging issues task force ("eitf") issue 04-5, investor's accounting for an investment in a limited partnership when the investor is the sole general partner and the limited f-7 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) partners have certain rights ("eitf 04-05"), to investments in joint ventures. eitf 04-05 provides guidance on the type of rights held by the limited partner(s) that preclude consolidation in circumstances in which the sole general partner would otherwise consolidate the limited partnership in accordance with gaap. the assessment of limited partners' rights and their impact on the presumption of control of the limited partnership by the sole general partner should be made when an investor becomes the sole general partner and should be reassessed if (i) there is a change to the terms or in the exercisability of the rights of the limited partners, (ii) the sole general partner increases or decreases its ownership of limited partnership interests, or (iii) there is an increase or decrease in the number of outstanding limited partnership interests. eitf 04-05 also applies to managing member interests in limited liability companies. investments in unconsolidated joint ventures investments in entities which the company does not consolidate but for which the company has the ability to exercise significant influence over operating and financial policies are reported under the equity method. under the equity method of accounting, the company's share of the investee's earnings or loss is included in the company's operating results. the initial carrying value of investments in unconsolidated joint ventures is based on the amount paid to purchase the joint venture interest or the carrying value of the assets prior to the sale of interests in the joint venture. to the extent that the company's cost basis is different from the basis reflected at the joint venture level, the basis difference is generally amortized over the life of the related assets and liabilities and included in the company's share of equity in earnings of the joint venture. the company recognizes gains on the sale of interests in joint ventures to the extent the economic substance of the transaction is a sale in accordance with the american institute of certified public accountants statement of position 78-9, accounting for investments in real estate ventures and statement of financial accounting standards ("sfas") no. 66, accounting for sales of real estate ("sfas no. 66"). revenue recognition rental income from tenants is recognized in accordance with gaap, including sec staff accounting bulletin no. 104, revenue recognition ("sab 104"). the company begins recognizing rental revenue when collectibility is reasonably assured and the tenant has taken possession or controls the physical use of the leased asset. for assets acquired subject to leases the company recognizes revenue upon acquisition of the asset provided the tenant has taken possession or controls the physical use of the leased asset. if the lease provides for tenant improvements, the company determines whether the tenant improvements, for accounting purposes, are owned by the tenant or the company. when the company is the owner of the tenant improvements, the tenant is not considered to have taken physical possession or controls the physical use of the leased asset until the tenant improvements are substantially completed. when the tenant is the owner of the tenant improvements, any tenant improvement allowance funded is treated as a lease incentive and amortized as a reduction of revenue over the lease term. tenant improvement ownership is determined based on various factors including, but not limited to: whether the lease stipulates how and on what a tenant improvement allowance may be spent; whether the tenant or landlord retains legal title to the improvements at the end of the lease term; whether the tenant improvements are unique to the tenant or general-purpose in nature; and f-8 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) whether the tenant improvements are expected to have any residual value at the end of the lease. for leases with minimum scheduled rent increases, the company recognizes income on a straight-line basis over the lease term when collectibility is reasonably assured. recognizing rental income on a straight-line basis for leases results in recognized revenue exceeding amounts contractually due from tenants. such cumulative excess amounts are included in other assets and were $76 million and $36 million, net of allowances, at december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. in the event the company determines that collectibility of straight-line rents is not reasonably assured, the company limits future recognition to amounts contractually owed, and, where appropriate, the company establishes an allowance for estimated losses. the company maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts, including an allowance for straight-line rent receivables, for estimated losses resulting from tenant defaults or the inability of tenants to make contractual rent and tenant recovery payments. the company monitors the liquidity and creditworthiness of its tenants and operators on an ongoing basis. the evaluation considers industry and economic conditions, property performance, credit enhancements and other factors. for straight-line rent amounts, the company's assessment is based on amounts recoverable over the term of the lease. at december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, the company had an allowance of $35.8 million and $29.7 million, included in other assets, as a result of the company's determination that collectibility is not reasonably assured for certain straight-line rent amounts. the results for the year ended december 31, 2007, include income of $15 million, or $0.07 per diluted shares, resulting from the company's change in estimate relating to the collectibility of straight-line rents due from summerville senior living, inc. ("summerville") and emeritus corporation ("emeritus"), of which $6 million, or $0.03 per diluted share of common stock, is included in discontinued operations. on september 4, 2007, emeritus acquired summerville and provided the company with additional security under its leases with summerville. certain leases provide for additional rents contingent upon a percentage of the facility's revenue in excess of specified base amounts or other thresholds. such revenue is recognized when actual results reported by the tenant, or estimates of tenant results, exceed the base amount or other thresholds. such revenue is recognized in accordance with sab no. 104, which states that income is recognized only after the contingency has been removed (when the related thresholds are achieved). tenant recoveries related to reimbursement of real estate taxes, insurance, repairs and maintenance, and other operating expenses are recognized as revenue in the period the applicable expenses are incurred. the reimbursements are recognized and presented in accordance with emerging issues task force issue no. 99-19, reporting revenue gross as a principal versus net as an agent ("eitf 99-19"). eitf 99-19 requires that these reimbursements be recorded gross, as the company is generally the primary obligor with respect to purchasing goods and services from third-party suppliers, has discretion in selecting the supplier and bears the credit risk. the company receives management fees from its investments in joint venture entities for various services provided as the managing member of the ventures. management fees are recorded as revenue when fees have been earned and management services have been delivered. the company recognizes gains on sales of properties in accordance with sfas no. 66 upon the closing of the transaction with the purchaser. gains on properties sold are recognized using the full accrual method when the collectibility of the sales price is reasonably assured, the company is not f-9 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) obligated to perform significant activities after the sale, the initial investment from the buyer is sufficient and other profit recognition criteria have been satisfied. gains on sales of properties may be deferred in whole or in part until the requirements for gain recognition under sfas no. 66 have been met. the company uses the direct finance method of accounting to record income from direct financing leases ("dfls"). for leases accounted for as dfls, future minimum lease payments are recorded as a receivable. the difference between the future minimum lease payments and the estimated residual values less the cost of the properties is recorded as unearned income. unearned income is deferred and amortized to income over the lease terms to provide a constant yield. investments in direct financing leases are presented net of unamortized unearned income. real estate real estate, consisting of land, buildings and improvements, is recorded at cost. the company allocates the cost of the acquisition, including the assumption of liabilities, to the acquired tangible assets and identifiable intangibles based on their estimated fair values in accordance with sfas no. 141, business combinations . the company assesses fair value based on estimated cash flow projections that utilize appropriate discount and/or capitalization rates and available market information. estimates of future cash flows are based on a number of factors including historical operating results, known and anticipated trends and market and economic conditions. the fair value of the tangible assets of an acquired property considers the value of the property as if it was vacant. the company records acquired "above and below" market leases at fair value using discount rates which reflect the risks associated with the leases acquired. the amount recorded is based on the present value of the difference between (i) the contractual amounts to be paid pursuant to each in-place lease and (ii) management's estimate of fair market lease rates for each in-place lease, measured over a period equal to the remaining term of the lease for above market leases and the initial term plus the extended term for any leases with bargain renewal options. other intangible assets acquired include amounts for in-place lease values that are based on the company's evaluation of the specific characteristics of each tenant's lease. factors to be considered include estimates of carrying costs during hypothetical expected lease-up periods, market conditions and costs to execute similar leases. in estimating carrying costs, the company includes estimates of lost rentals at market rates during the hypothetical expected lease-up periods, depending on local market conditions. in estimating costs to execute similar leases, the company considers leasing commissions, legal and other related costs. the company capitalizes direct construction and development costs, including predevelopment costs, interest, property taxes, insurance and other costs directly related and essential to the acquisition, development or construction of a project. in accordance with sfas no. 34, capitalization of interest cost and sfas no. 67, accounting for costs and initial rental operations of real estate projects , construction and development costs are capitalized while substantive activities are ongoing to prepare an asset for its intended use. the company considers a construction project as substantially complete and held available for occupancy upon the completion of tenant improvements, but no later than one year from cessation of major construction activity. costs incurred after a project is substantially complete and ready for its intended use, or after development activities have stopped, are expensed as incurred. costs previously capitalized related to abandoned acquisitions or developments are written off. expenditures for repairs and maintenance are expensed as incurred. f-10 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) the company computes depreciation on properties using the straight-line method over the assets' estimated useful lives. depreciation is discontinued when a property is identified as held for sale. building and improvements are depreciated over useful lives ranging up to 45 years. above and below market lease intangibles are amortized primarily to revenue over the remaining noncancellable lease terms and bargain renewal periods, if any. other in-place lease intangibles are amortized to expense over the remaining noncancellable lease term and bargain renewal periods, if any. loans receivable and allowance for loan losses loans receivable are classified as held-for-investment based on management's intent and ability to hold the loans for the foreseeable future or to maturity. loans held-for-investment are carried at amortized cost reduced by a valuation allowance for estimated credit losses. the company recognizes interest income on loans, including the amortization of discounts and premiums, using the effective interest method applied on a loan-by-loan basis. premiums and discounts are recognized as yield adjustments over the life of the related loans. loans are transferred from held-for-investment to held-for-sale when management's intent is to no longer hold the loans for the foreseeable future. loans held-for-sale are recorded at the lower of cost or fair value. allowances are established for loans based upon an estimate of probable losses for the individual loans deemed to be impaired. impairment is indicated when it is deemed probable that the company will be unable to collect all amounts due on a timely basis according to the contractual terms of the loan. the allowance is based upon the borrower's overall financial condition, resources and payment record; the prospects for support from any financially responsible guarantors; and, if appropriate, the realizable value of any collateral. these estimates consider all available evidence including, as appropriate, the present value of the expected future cash flows discounted at the loan's contractual effective rate, the fair value of collateral, general economic conditions and trends, historical and industry loss experience, and other relevant factors. impairment of long-lived assets and goodwill the company assesses the carrying value of its long-lived assets, including investments in unconsolidated joint ventures, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable in accordance with sfas no. 144, accounting for the impairment or disposal of long lived assets ("sfas no. 144"). if the sum of the expected future net undiscounted cash flows is less than the carrying amount of the long-lived asset, an impairment loss will be recognized by adjusting the asset's carrying amount to its estimated fair value. goodwill is tested at least annually applying the following two-step approach in accordance with sfas no. 142, goodwill and other intangible assets . the first step of the test is a comparison of the fair value of the reporting unit containing goodwill to its carrying amount including goodwill. if the fair value is less than the carrying value, then the second step of the test is needed to measure the amount of potential goodwill impairment. the second step requires the fair value of the reporting unit to be allocated to all the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination at the date of the impairment test. the excess of the fair value of the reporting unit over the fair value of assets and liabilities is the implied value of goodwill and is used to determine the amount of impairment. the determination of the fair value of long-lived assets, including goodwill, involves significant judgment. this judgment is based on the company's analysis and estimates of the future operating results and resulting cash flows of each long-lived asset whose carrying amount may not be recoverable. f-11 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) the company's ability to accurately predict future operating results, cash flows and fair values impacts the timing and recognition of impairments. assets held for sale and discontinued operations certain long-lived assets are classified as held-for-sale in accordance with sfas no. 144. long-lived assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of their carrying amount or their fair value less cost to sell and are no longer depreciated. discontinued operations is defined in sfas no. 144 as a component of an entity that has either been disposed of or is deemed to be held for sale if both the operations and cash flows of the component have been or will be eliminated from ongoing operations as a result of the disposal transaction and the entity will not have any significant continuing involvement in the operations of the component after the disposal transaction. assets held for contribution properties classified as held for contribution to joint ventures qualify as held for sale under sfas no. 144, but are not included in discontinued operations due to the company's continuing interest in the ventures. stock-based compensation on january 1, 2002, the company adopted the fair value method of accounting for stock-based compensation in accordance with sfas no. 123, accounting for stock-based compensation ("sfas no. 123"), as amended by sfas no. 148, accounting for stock-based compensation transition and disclosure ("sfas no. 148"). the fair value provisions of sfas no. 123 were adopted prospectively with the fair value of all new stock option grants recognized as compensation expense beginning january 1, 2002. since only new grants are accounted for under the fair value method, stock-based compensation expense is less than that which would have been recognized prior to 2006 if the fair value method had been applied to all awards. compensation expense for awards with graded vesting is generally recognized ratably over the period from the date of grant to the date when the award is no longer contingent on the employee providing additional services. sfas no. 123r, share-based payments ("sfas no. 123r"), which is a revision of sfas no. 123, was issued in december 2004. generally, the approach in sfas no. 123r is similar to that in sfas no. 123. however, sfas no. 123r requires all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the income statement based on their fair values. pro forma disclosure is no longer an alternative. on january 1, 2006, the company adopted sfas no. 123r using the modified prospective application transition method which provides for only current and future period stock-based awards to be measured and recognized at fair value. f-12 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) the following table reflects net income and earnings per share, adjusted as if the fair value based method had been applied to all outstanding stock awards for the year ended december 31, 2005 (in thousands, except per share amounts): net income, as reported $ 173,057 add: stock-based compensation expense included in reported net income 6,495 deduct: stock-based employee compensation expense determined under the fair value based method (6,811 ) pro forma net income $ 172,741 earnings per share: basic as reported $ 1.13 basic pro forma 1.13 diluted as reported 1.12 diluted pro forma 1.12 cash and cash equivalents cash and cash equivalents includes short-term investments with original maturities of three months or less when purchased. restricted cash restricted cash primarily consists of amounts held by mortgage lenders to provide for future real estate tax expenditures, tenant and capital improvements, security deposits and net proceeds from property sales that were executed as tax-deferred dispositions. derivatives in the normal course of business, the company uses certain types of derivative financial instruments for the purpose of managing or hedging interest rate risks. to qualify for hedge accounting treatment, the derivative instruments used for risk management purposes must effectively reduce the risk exposure that they are designed to hedge. for instruments associated with the hedge of anticipated transactions, hedge effectiveness criteria also require that the occurrence of the underlying transactions be probable. the company applies sfas no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities , as amended ("sfas no. 133"). sfas no. 133 establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, and hedging activities. it requires the recognition of all derivative instruments, including embedded derivatives required to be bifurcated, as assets or liabilities in the company's consolidated balance sheets at fair value. changes in the fair value of derivative instruments that are not designated as hedges or that do not meet the hedge accounting criteria of sfas no. 133 are recognized in earnings. for derivatives designated as hedging instruments in qualifying cash flow hedges, the change in fair value of the effective portion of the derivatives is recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) whereas the change in fair value of the ineffective portion is recognized in earnings. the company formally documents all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk-management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. this process includes linking all derivatives that are designated as cash flow hedges to specific assets f-13 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) and liabilities in the balance sheet. the company also assesses and documents, both at the hedging instrument's inception and on an ongoing basis, whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows associated with the hedged items. when it is determined that a derivative ceases to be highly effective as a hedge or the forecasted transaction is no longer probable of occurring, the company discontinues hedge accounting prospectively. the ineffective portion of a hedge, if any, is immediately recognized in earnings to the extent that the change in value of a derivative does not perfectly offset the change in value of the instrument being hedged. income taxes in 1985, hcp, inc. elected reit status and believes it has always operated so as to continue to qualify as a reit under sections 856 to 860 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the "code"). accordingly, hcp, inc. will not be subject to u.s. federal income tax, provided that it continues to qualify as a reit and its distributions to its stockholders equal or exceed its taxable income. on july 27, 2007, the company formed hcp life science reit, a consolidated subsidiary, which will elect reit status retroactive to its formation date. see note 17 for additional information on the hcp life science reit. hcp, inc., along with its consolidated reit subsidiary, are each subject to the reit qualification requirements under sections 856 to 860 of the code. if either reit fails to qualify as a reit in any taxable year, it will be subject to federal income taxes at regular corporate rates and may be ineligible to qualify as a reit for four subsequent tax years. certain activities the company undertakes must be conducted by entities which elect to be treated as taxable reit subsidiaries ("trss"). trss are subject to both federal and state income taxes. also, certain states and cities impose an income tax on reit activities. on january 1, 2007, the company adopted the provisions of financial interpretation no. 48, accounting for uncertainty in income taxes ("fin 48"). this interpretation clarifies the accounting for uncertain tax positions recognized in a company's financial statements in accordance with fasb statement no. 109, accounting for income taxes . it prescribes a recognition threshold as well as measurement criteria for evaluating tax positions taken or expected to be taken on a tax return. the interpretation also provides guidance on de-recognition of previously recognized positions, and the treatment of potential interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions. the company recognizes tax penalties relating to unrecognized tax benefits as additional tax expense. interest relating to unrecognized tax benefits is recognized as interest expense. marketable securities the company classifies its marketable equity and debt securities as available-for-sale in accordance with the provisions of sfas no. 115, accounting for certain investments in debt and equity securities . these securities are carried at market value with unrealized gains and losses reported in stockholders' equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. gains or losses on securities sold are based on the specific identification method. when the company determines declines in fair value of marketable securities are other-than-temporary, a realized loss is recognized in earnings. capital raising issuance costs costs incurred in connection with the issuance of both common and preferred shares are recorded as a reduction in additional paid-in capital. debt issuance costs are deferred and included in other assets and amortized to interest expense based on effective interest method over the remaining term of the related debt. f-14 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) segment reporting the company reports its consolidated financial statements in accordance with sfas no. 131, disclosures about segments of an enterprise and related information ("sfas no. 131"). the company's segments are based on the company's method of internal reporting which classifies its operations by healthcare sector. the company's segments include five business segments (i) senior housing, (ii) life science, (iii) medical office, (iv) hospital and (v) skilled nursing. prior to the slough estates usa, inc. ("seusa") acquisition, the company operated through two reportable segments triple-net leased and medical office buildings. as a result of the company's acquisition of seusa, the company added a significant portfolio of real estate assets under different leasing and property management structures and made some organizational changes. the company believes the change to its reportable segments is appropriate and consistent with how its chief operating decision maker reviews the company's operating results. in addition, in accordance with sfas no. 131, all prior period segment information has been reclassified to conform to the current presentation. minority interests and mandatorily redeemable financial instruments as of december 31, 2007, there were 7.6 million non-managing member units outstanding in seven limited liability companies of which the company is the managing member: (i) hcpi/tennessee, llc; (ii) hcpi/utah, llc; (iii) hcpi/utah ii, llc; (iv) hcpi/indiana, llc; (v) hcp dr california, llc; (vi) hcp dr alabama, llc; and (vii) hcp dr mdc, llc. the company consolidates these entities since it exercises control and carries the minority interests at cost. the non-managing member llc units ("downreit units") are exchangeable for an amount of cash approximating the then-current market value of shares of the company's common stock or, at the company's option, shares of the company's common stock (subject to certain adjustments, such as stock splits and reclassifications). upon exchange of downreit units for the company's common stock, the carrying amount of the downreit units is reclassified to stockholders' equity. at december 31, 2007, the carrying value and market value of the 7.6 million downreit units were $305.8 million and $351.2 million, respectively. sfas no. 150, accounting for certain financial instruments with characteristics of both liabilities and equity ("sfas no. 150"), requires, among other things, that mandatorily redeemable financial instruments be classified as a liability and recorded at settlement value. consolidated joint ventures with a limited-life are considered mandatorily redeemable. implementation of the provisions of sfas no. 150 that require the valuation and establishment of a liability for limited-life entities was subsequently deferred. as of december 31, 2007, the company has 11 limited-life entities that have a settlement value of the minority interests of approximately $8.3 million, which is approximately $6.3 million more than the carrying amount. preferred stock redemptions the company recognizes the excess of the redemption value of cumulative redeemable preferred stock redeemed over its carrying amount as a charge to income in accordance with financial accounting standards board ("fasb") eitf topic d-42, the effect on the calculation of earnings per share for the redemption or induced conversion of preferred stock ("eitf topic d-42"). in july 2003, the sec staff issued a clarification of the sec's position on the application of fasb eitf topic d-42. the sec staff's position, as clarified, is that in applying eitf topic d-42, the carrying value of preferred shares that are redeemed should be reduced by the amount of original issuance costs, regardless of where in stockholders' equity those costs are reflected (see note 14). f-15 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) life care bonds payable two of the company's continuing care retirement communities ("ccrcs") issue non-interest bearing life care bonds payable to certain residents of the ccrcs. generally, the bonds are refundable to the resident or to the resident's estate upon termination or cancellation of the ccrc agreement. one of the company's other senior housing facilities requires that certain residents of the facility post non-interest bearing occupancy fee deposits that are refundable to the resident or the resident's estate upon the earlier of the re-letting of the unit or after two years of vacancy. proceeds from the issuance of new bonds are used to retire existing bonds. as the maturity of these obligations is not determinable, no interest is imputed. these amounts are included in other debt in the company's consolidated balance sheets. new accounting pronouncements in september 2006, the fasb issued sfas no. 157, fair value measurements ("sfas no. 157"). sfas no. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. sfas no. 157 applies under other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurement. sfas no. 157 requires prospective application for fiscal years beginning after november 15, 2007. the adoption of sfas no. 157 on january 1, 2008 did not have a material impact on the company's consolidated financial position or results of operations. in february 2007, the fasb issued sfas no. 159, the fair value option for financial assets and financial liabilities ("sfas no. 159"). sfas no. 159 permits all entities to choose to measure eligible items at fair value at specified election dates. sfas 159 is effective as of the beginning of an entity's first fiscal year that begins after november 15, 2007. on january 1, 2008 the company did not elect to apply the fair value option to any specific financial assets or liabilities. in december 2007, the fasb issued sfas no. 141 (revised), business combinations ("sfas no. 141r"). sfas no. 141r establishes principles and requirements for how the acquirer of a business recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed (including intangibles), and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree. sfas no. 141r also provides guidance for recognizing and measuring the goodwill acquired in the business combination and determines what information to disclose to enable users of the financial statements to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business combination. sfas no. 141r is effective for fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2008. the adoption of sfas no. 141r on january 1, 2009 will require the company to expense all transaction costs for business combinations which may be significant to the company based on historical acquisition activity. in december 2007, the fasb issued sfas no. 160, noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statements-an amendment of arb no. 51 ("sfas no. 160"). sfas no. 160 establishes accounting and reporting standards for a parent company's noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. sfas no. 160 is effective for fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2008. the adoption of sfas no. 160 on january 1, 2009 will require the company to record gains or losses upon changes in control which could have a significant impact on the consolidated financial statements. reclassifications certain amounts in the prior years' consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. properties sold or held for sale have been reclassified to f-16 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) discontinued operations in accordance with sfas no. 144 (see note 5). "tenant recoveries" have been reclassified from "rental and related revenues." in addition, in accordance with sfas no. 131, all prior period segment information has been reclassified to conform to the current presentation. (3) mergers and acquisitions slough estates usa inc. on august 1, 2007, the company closed its acquisition of seusa for aggregate cash consideration of approximately $3.0 billion. seusa's life science portfolio is concentrated in the san francisco bay area and san diego county and at the acquisition date, was comprised of 83 existing properties and an established development pipeline. the calculation of total consideration follows (in thousands): payment of aggregate cash consideration $ 2,978,911 estimated acquisition costs, net of cash acquired 3,778 purchase price, net of assumed liabilities 2,982,689 fair value of liabilities assumed, including debt 218,657 purchase price $ 3,201,346 under the purchase method of accounting, the assets and liabilities of seusa were recorded at their relative fair values as of the date of the acquisition. during the quarter ended december 31, 2007, the company revised its initial purchase price allocation of its acquired interest in seusa, which resulted in the company reallocating $82.4 million among buildings and improvements, development costs and construction in progress, and land from its preliminary allocation at september 30, 2007. the changes from the company's initial purchase price allocation did not have a significant impact on the company's results of operations during the year ended december 31, 2007. as of december 31, 2007, the purchase price allocation is preliminary, and the final purchase price allocation will be determined pending the receipt of information necessary to complete the valuation of certain assets and liabilities, which may result in a change from the initial estimate. hcp has not identified any material unrecorded pre-acquisition contingencies where an impairment of the related asset or determination of the related liability is probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. if information becomes available which would indicate it is probable that such events had occurred and the amounts can be reasonably estimated, such items will be included in the final purchase price allocation. f-17 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) the following table summarizes the estimated fair values of the seusa assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date of august 1, 2007 (in thousands): assets acquired buildings and improvements $ 1,674,912 development costs and construction in progress 276,043 land 846,100 investments in and advances to unconsolidated joint ventures 34,248 intangible assets 340,200 other assets 29,843 total assets acquired $ 3,201,346 liabilities assumed mortgages payable and other debt $ 33,553 intangible liabilities 148,200 other liabilities 36,904 total liabilities assumed 218,657 net assets acquired $ 2,982,689 in connection with the company's acquisition of seusa, the company obtained, from a syndicate of banks, a financing commitment for a $3.0 billion bridge loan under which $2.75 billion was borrowed at closing. using proceeds from the sales of real estate in august 2007 and capital market transactions consummated in october 2007, the company made aggregate payments of approximately $1.4 billion, reducing the outstanding principal balance of the bridge loan to $1.35 billion. in connection with the acquisition of seusa, the company incurred $11 million of merger-related costs primarily in the third and fourth quarters of 2007. these merger-related costs include the amortization of fees associated with the seusa acquisition financing, the write-off of unamortized deferred financing fees related to a previous line of credit, payments on the bridge financing, as well as other seusa integration costs. cnl retirement properties, inc. and cnl retirement corp. on october 5, 2006, hcp acquired crp. crp was a reit that invested primarily in senior housing and medical office buildings located across the united states. at the time of the crp merger, crp owned or held an ownership interest in 273 properties in 33 states. under the merger agreement with crp, each share of crp common stock was exchanged for $11.1293 in cash and 0.0865 of a share of hcp's common stock, equivalent to approximately $2.9 billion in cash and 22.8 million shares. fractional shares were paid in cash. the company financed the cash consideration paid to crp stockholders and the expenses related to the transaction through a $1.0 billion offering of senior unsecured notes and a draw down under term and bridge loan facilities and a three year revolving credit facility. as of january 22, 2007, the term and bridge facilities had been repaid with proceeds from the issuance of senior notes, secured debt and common stock, disposition of certain real estate properties and from real estate joint ventures. simultaneously with the closing of the merger with crp, hcp also merged with cnl retirement corp. ("crc") for aggregate consideration of approximately $120 million, which included the issuance of 4.4 million shares of hcp common stock. f-18 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) the calculation of the aggregate purchase price for crp and crc follows (in thousands): cash consideration paid for crp common shares exchanged $ 2,948,729 fair value of hcp common shares issued 720,384 crp and crc merger consideration 3,669,113 crp and crc merger costs 27,983 additional cash consideration paid to retire debt at closing, net of cash acquired 348,334 total consideration, net of assumed liabilities 4,045,430 fair value of liabilities assumed, including debt and minority interest 1,517,582 total consideration $ 5,563,012 under the purchase method of accounting, the assets and liabilities of crp and crc were recorded at their relative fair values as of the date of the acquisition, with amounts paid in the excess of the fair value of the assets acquired recorded as goodwill. the following table summarizes the relative fair values of the crp and crc assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date of october 5, 2006 (in thousands): assets acquired buildings and improvements $ 3,795,046 land 516,254 direct financing leases 675,500 restricted cash 34,566 intangible assets 417,479 other assets 72,421 goodwill 51,746 total assets acquired $ 5,563,012 liabilities assumed mortgages payable and other debt $ 1,299,109 intangible liabilities 137,507 other liabilities 75,705 minority interests 5,261 total liabilities assumed and minority interests 1,517,582 net assets acquired $ 4,045,430 crc maintained change-in-control provisions with certain of its employees that allowed for enhanced severance and benefit payments. included in the assets acquired and liabilities assumed are intangible assets associated with employee non-compete agreements and a non-compete agreement with cnl financial group, cnl real estate group and two other named individuals valued at $24 million. the value recorded for the non-compete agreements is being amortized over the non-compete contract period of four years. in connection with the crp and crc mergers, hcp incurred $10.8 million and $14.0 million of merger-related costs during 2007 and 2006, respectively. these merger-related costs include the amortization of fees associated with the crp acquisition financing, the write-off of unamortized f-19 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) deferred financing fees related to a previous line of credit, severance and retention-related compensation, as well as other crp integration costs. the related assets, liabilities and results of operations of crp, crc and seusa are included in the consolidated financial statements from the respective dates of acquisition. pro forma results of operations the following unaudited pro forma consolidated results of operations for the year ended december 31, 2007 and 2006 assume that the acquisitions of crp and crc were completed as of january 1, 2006 and seusa on january 1 for each of the fiscal years shown below (in thousands, except per share amounts): year ended december 31, 2007 2006 revenues $ 1,096,691 $ 958,382 net income 453,095 249,345 basic earnings per common share $ 2.08 $ 1.12 diluted earnings per common share 2.06 1.11 pro forma data may not be indicative of the results that would have been obtained had the acquisitions actually occurred at the beginning of each of the periods presented, nor does it intend to be a projection of future results. (4) acquisitions of real estate properties a summary of acquisitions for the year ended december 31, 2007, excluding seusa (note 3), follows (in thousands): consideration assets acquired acquisitions(1) cash paid real estate debt assumed downreit units(2) real estate net intangibles medical office $ 166,982 $ $ $ 93,887 $ 247,996 $ 12,873 hospitals 120,562 35,205 84,719 235,084 5,402 life science 35,777 12,215 2,092 48,237 1,847 senior housing 15,956 340 5,148 20,772 672 $ 339,277 $ 35,545 $ 17,363 $ 180,698 $ 552,089 $ 20,794 a summary of acquisitions during the year ended december 31, 2006, excluding crp and crc (note 3) and consolidation of hcp medical office portfolio, llc ("hcp mop") (see note 8), follows (in thousands): consideration assets acquired acquisitions(1) cash paid real estate debt assumed downreit units(2) real estate net intangibles medical office $ 146,447 $ $ 11,928 $ 5,523 $ 152,520 $ 11,378 senior housing 222,275 16,600 68,819 299,970 7,724 hospitals 41,490 40,661 829 life science 31,072 28,308 2,764 $ 441,284 $ 16,600 $ 80,747 $ 5,523 $ 521,459 $ 22,695 (1) includes transaction costs, if any. (2) non-managing member llc units. f-20 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) in addition to the seusa acquisition discussed in note 3, during the year ended december 31, 2007, the company acquired properties aggregating $573 million, including the following significant acquisitions: on january 31, 2007, the company acquired three long-term acute care hospitals and received proceeds of $36 million in exchange for 11 skilled nursing facilities ("snfs") valued at approximately $77 million. the company recognized a $47 million gain on the sale of these 11 snfs. the three acquired properties have an initial lease term of ten years with two ten-year renewal options and escalators based on the lessee's revenue growth. the acquired properties are included in a new master lease that contains 14 properties leased to the same operator. on february 9, 2007, the company acquired a medical campus that includes two hospital towers, six mobs and three parking garages for approximately $350 million, including downreit units valued at $179 million. in november and december 2007, the company acquired three life science facilities with an aggregate value of approximately $46 million, including $12 million of assumed debt. for the year ended december 31, 2007 and 2006, the company funded an aggregate of $150 million and $50 million respectively, for construction, tenant and capital improvements projects. (5) dispositions of real estate, real estate interests and discontinued operations dispositions of real estate during the year ended december 31, 2007, the company sold 97 properties for $922 million and recognized gains on sales of real estate of approximately $404 million, including the following: on june 29, 2007, the company sold 17 senior housing facilities for an aggregate price of $185 million, resulting in gains of $3 million. this portfolio was acquired through the company's merger with crp merger on october 5, 2006. on august 15, 2007, the company sold 41 senior housing facilities to emeritus for an aggregate price of $502 million, resulting in a gain of $284 million. during the year ended december 31, 2006, the company sold 83 properties for $512 million and recognized gains on sales of real estate of approximately $275 million, including the following: on december 1, 2006, the company sold 69 skilled nursing facilities for an aggregate price of $392 million and recognized a gain on sale of $226 million. dispositions of real estate interests on january 5, 2007, the company formed a senior housing joint venture ("hcp ventures ii"), which included 25 properties valued at $1.1 billion and encumbered by a $686 million secured debt facility. the 25 properties included in this joint venture were acquired in the company's acquisition of crp and were classified as held for contribution within three months from the close of the crp acquisition. these assets were not depreciated or amortized, as these assets were held for contribution, and the value allocated to these assets was based on the disposition proceeds received. the company received approximately $280 million in proceeds, including a one-time acquisition fee of $5.4 million, and no gain or loss was recognized for the sale of a 65% interest in this joint venture. on april 30, 2007, the company formed a mob joint venture, hcp ventures iv, llc ("hcp ventures iv"), which included 55 properties valued at approximately $585 million and encumbered by f-21 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) $344 million of secured debt. upon the disposition of an 80% interest in this venture, the company received proceeds of $196 million, including a one-time acquisition fee of $3 million, and recognized a gain of $10.1 million. see discussion of the hcp ventures iii, llc ("hcp ventures iii") 2006 transactions in note 8. properties held for sale at december 31, 2007 and 2006, the number of assets held for sale was four and 101 with carrying amounts of $171,000 and $512 million, respectively. properties held for contribution at december 31, 2006, the company classified as held for contribution 25 senior housing assets and 52 mobs with an aggregate carrying value of $1.7 billion. there were no assets classified as held for contribution at december 31, 2007. results from discontinued operations the following table summarizes income from discontinued operations, gains on sales of real estate and impairments included in discontinued operations (dollars in thousands): year ended december 31, 2007 2006 2005 rental and related revenues $ 35,018 $ 91,455 $ 95,608 tenant recoveries 235 308 233 other revenues 3,035 3,666 178 total revenues 38,288 95,429 96,019 depreciation and amortization expenses 6,831 21,153 22,185 operating expenses 522 735 669 other costs and expenses 6,267 4,428 1,282 operating income from discontinued operations $ 24,668 $ 69,113 $ 71,883 gains on sales of real estate $ 403,584 $ 275,283 $ 10,156 impairments $ $ 6,004 $ number of properties held for sale 4 101 162 number of properties sold 97 83 18 number of properties included in discontinued operations 101 184 180 f-22 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) (6) net investment in direct financing leases the components of net investment in direct financing leases ("dfls") consisted of the following (dollars in thousands): year ended december 31, 2007 2006 minimum lease payments receivable $ 1,414,116 $ 1,512,411 estimated residual values 468,769 515,470 less unearned income (1,242,833 ) (1,349,868 ) net investment in direct financing leases $ 640,052 $ 678,013 properties subject to direct financing leases 30 32 the dfls were acquired in the company's merger with crp. crp determined that these leases were dfls, and the company is generally required to carry forward crp's accounting conclusions after the acquisition date relative to their assessment of these leases. certain leases contain provisions that allow the tenants to elect to purchase the properties during or at the end of the lease terms for the aggregate initial investment amount plus adjustments, if any, as defined in the lease agreements. certain leases also permit the company to require the tenants to purchase the properties at the end of the lease terms. lease payments due to the company relating to three land-only dfls with a carrying value of $59.5 million at december 31, 2007, are subordinate to and serve as collateral for first mortgage construction loans entered into by the tenants to fund development costs related to the properties. during the year ended december 31, 2007, two dfl tenants exercised purchase options with the company receiving proceeds of $51 million. the proceeds received in excess of the carrying value of the dfl of $4.3 million and are included in income from direct financing leases. future minimum lease payments contractually due on direct financing leases at december 31, 2007, were as follows (in thousands): year amount 2008 $ 46,805 2009 48,522 2010 49,906 2011 51,203 2012 52,536 thereafter 1,165,144 $ 1,414,116 f-23 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) (7) loans receivable the following table summarizes the company's loans receivable balance (in thousands): december 31, 2007 2006 real estate secured other total real estate secured other total mezzanine $ $ 1,000,000 $ 1,000,000 $ $ $ joint venture partners 7,055 7,055 7,054 7,054 other 69,126 86,285 155,411 121,707 68,989 190,696 unamortized discounts, fees and costs (96,740 ) (96,740 ) (225 ) (225 ) loan loss allowance (241 ) (241 ) (1,045 ) (1,045 ) $ 69,126 $ 996,359 $ 1,065,485 $ 121,482 $ 74,998 $ 196,480 following is a summary of loans receivable secured by real estate at december 31, 2007: final payment due number of loans payment terms initial principal amount carrying amount (in thousands) 2009 2 monthly interest and principal payments of $19,000 at 11.00% secured by a skilled nursing facility in montana and monthly interest only payments of $24,000, at 6.00% secured by two assisted living facilities in georgia and south carolina. $ 6,700 $ 6,724 2010 1 monthly interest payments of $128,000 at 11.10%. monthly principal payments of $59,000. secured by two skilled nursing facilities in colorado. 18,397 13,881 2011 1 monthly interest payments of $27,000 at 10.24%. monthly principal payments of $10,000. secured by an assisted living facility in north carolina. 3,859 3,148 2013 1 monthly interest payments of $65,000 at 7.50%. no monthly principal payments. secured by an assistant living facility in texas. 10,000 10,065 2016 1 monthly interest payments of $250,000 at 8.50%. no monthly principal payments. secured by a hospital in texas. 35,308 35,308 6 $ 74,264 $ 69,126 at december 31, 2007, minimum future principal payments to be received on loans receivable, including those secured by real estate, are $84.6 million in 2008, $7.5 million in 2009, $20.2 million in 2010, $3.1 million in 2011 and $950.1 million thereafter. on june 30, 2005, the company sold its minority interests in two joint ventures with arc for $6.2 million in exchange for a note collateralized by certain partnership interests of arc. the note bears interest at 9% per annum and matures in june 2010. the gain on sale of $2.4 million was deferred and will be recognized under the installment method of accounting as the principal balance of f-24 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) the note is repaid. these joint ventures were accounted for by the company under the equity method prior to june 30, 2005. on february 9, 2006, the company refinanced two existing loans secured by a hospital in texas. the loans were combined into a new single loan with a carrying amount of $35.3 million at december 31, 2007. the new loan bears interest at 8.5% per annum and matures in 2016. the original maturity of these loans was january 2006 and had a weighted average interest rate of 10.35%. on march 14, 2006, the company received $38 million in proceeds, including $7.3 million in excess of the carrying value, upon the early repayment of a secured loan receivable due may 1, 2010. the amount received in excess of the carrying value of the secured loan receivable was included in interest and other income in 2006. this loan was secured by nine skilled nursing facilities and carried an interest rate of 11.4% per annum. on october 5, 2006, through the its merger with crp, the company assumed an agreement to provide an affiliate of the cirrus group, llc with an interest only, senior secured term loan. the loan was modified during the year and now provides for a maturity date of december 31, 2008, with a one-year extension option, under which $79 million was borrowed to finance the acquisition, development, syndication and operation of new and existing surgical partnerships. certain of these surgical partnerships are tenants in the mobs crp acquired from cirrus. this loan accrues interest at a rate of 14.0%, of which 9.5% is payable monthly and the balance of 4.5% is deferred until maturity. the loan is subject to equity contribution requirements and borrower financial covenants and is collateralized by assets of the borrower (comprised primarily of interests in partnerships operating surgical facilities in premises leased from a cirrus affiliate, hcp ventures iv or the company) and is guaranteed up to $50 million through a combination of (i) a personal guarantee of up to $13 million by a principal of cirrus and (ii) a guarantee of the balance by other principals of cirrus under arrangements for recourse limited only to their interests in certain entities owning real estate. at december 31, 2007, the carrying value of this loan is $85 million, including accrued interest of $6 million. on july 12, 2007, the company received $44 million in proceeds, including $4 million in excess of the carrying value upon the early repayment of a secured loan receivable due december 28, 2015. the amount received in excess of the carrying value of the secured loan receivable is included in interest and other income. this loan was secured by a hospital in texas and carried an interest rate of 8.75% per annum. on december 21, 2007, the company made an investment in mezzanine loans having an aggregate face value of $1.0 billion, for approximately $900 million, as part of the financing for the carlyle group's $6.3 billion purchase of manor care, inc. these loans bear interest on their face amounts at a floating rate of libor plus 4.0%, mature in january 2013, and are pre-payable at any time subject to payment of yield maintenance fee during the first twelve months and are mandatorily pre-payable in january 2012 unless the borrower satisfies certain financial conditions. these loans are secured by an indirect pledge of the equity ownership in 339 hcr manorcare facilities located in 30 states and are subordinate to other debt, approximately $3.6 billion at closing. f-25 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) (8) investments in and advances to unconsolidated joint ventures the company owns interests in the following entities which are accounted for under the equity method at december 31, 2007 (dollars in thousands): entity(1) investment(2) ownership % hcp ventures ii $ 144,228 35 % hcp ventures iii, llc 13,088 30 hcp ventures iv, llc 48,864 20 arborwood living center, llc(3) 946 45 greenleaf living centers, llc(3) 462 45 suburban properties, llc 4,990 67 lasdk lp(4) 14,132 63 britannia biotech gateway lp(4) 15,625 55 torrey pines science center lp(4) 4,940 50 advances to unconsolidated joint ventures, net 1,619 $ 248,894 edgewood assisted living center, llc(3)(5) $ (410 ) 45 seminole shores living center, llc(3)(5) (805 ) 50 $ (1,215 ) (1) these joint ventures are not consolidated since the company does not control, through voting rights or other means, the joint ventures. see note 2 regarding the company's policy on consolidation. (2) represents the carrying value of the company's investment in the unconsolidated joint venture. see note 2 regarding the company's policy for accounting for joint venture interests. (3) as of december 31, 2007, the company has guaranteed in the aggregate $7 million of a total of $15 million of notes payable for these four joint ventures. no liability has been recorded related to these guarantees as of december 31, 2007. (4) represents interests acquired in the seusa acquisition. (5) negative investment amounts are included in accounts payable and accrued liabilities. on october 27, 2006, the company formed an mob joint venture, hcp ventures iii, llc ("hcp ventures iii"), with an institutional capital partner. the joint venture includes 13 properties valued at $140 million and encumbered by $92 million of mortgage debt. upon sale of a 70% interest in the venture, the company received approximately $36 million in proceeds, including a one-time acquisition fee of $0.7 million, which is included in investment management fee income for the year ended december 31, 2006. a 30% interest in the venture was retained by an 85% owned subsidiary of the company, which represents an effective 26% interest. the company acts as the managing member and receives asset management fees. on january 5, 2007, the company formed a senior housing joint venture, hcp ventures ii, with an institutional capital partner. the joint venture includes 25 properties valued at $1.1 billion and encumbered by a $686 million secured debt facility. upon the sale of a 65% interest in the venture, the company received approximately $280 million in proceeds, including a one-time acquisition fee of f-26 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) $5.4 million. the one-time acquisition fee of $5.4 million is included in investment management fee income for the year ended december 31, 2007. the company acts as the managing member and receives asset management fees. on april 30, 2007, the company formed an mob joint venture, hcp ventures iv, with an institutional capital partner. the joint venture included 55 properties valued at approximately $585 million and encumbered by $344 million of secured debt. upon the sale of an 80% interest in the venture, the company received proceeds of $196 million and recognized a gain on sale of real estate interest of $10 million. these proceeds included a one-time acquisition fee of $3 million, which is included in investment management fee income for the year ended december 31, 2007. the company acts as the managing member and receives asset management fees. during the year ended december 31, 2007, hcp ventures iv acquired three mobs valued at $58 million and concurrently placed $38 million of secured debt. the acquisitions were funded pro-rata by the company and its joint venture partner. summarized combined financial information for the company's unconsolidated joint ventures follows (in thousands): december 31, 2007 2006 real estate, net $ 1,752,289 $ 150,206 other assets, net 195,816 25,358 total assets $ 1,948,105 $ 175,564 notes payable $ 1,192,270 $ 116,805 accounts payable 45,427 13,690 other partners' capital 511,149 32,549 hcp's capital (1) 199,259 12,520 total liabilities and partners' capital $ 1,948,105 $ 175,564 year ended december 31, 2007 2006(2) 2005(2) total revenues $ 160,460 $ 78,475 $ 75,527 discontinued operations 20,512 (2,715 ) net income (loss) 10,817 24,402 (3,387 ) hcp's equity income (loss) 5,645 8,331 (1,123 ) fees earned by hcp 13,581 3,895 3,184 distributions received, net 483,557 40,446 5,302 (1) aggregate basis difference of the company's investments in these joint ventures of $47 million, as of december 31, 2007, is primarily attributable to real estate and related intangible assets. (2) includes financial information related to two joint ventures with arc that were sold on june 30, 2005 (see note 7) and the results of hcp mop, which was consolidated beginning on november 30, 2006. f-27 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) hcp medical office portfolio, llc hcp mop was a joint venture formed in june 2003 between the company and an affiliate of general electric company ("ge"). hcp mop was engaged in the acquisition, development and operation of mob properties. prior to november 30, 2006, the company was the managing member and had a 33% ownership interest therein. on november 30, 2006, the company acquired the interest held by ge for $141 million, which resulted in the consolidation of hcp mop beginning on that date. the company is now the sole owner of the venture and its 59 mobs. under the purchase method of accounting, the cost of the hcp mop acquisition was allocated based on the relative fair values as of the date that the company acquired each of its interests in hcp mop. during the year ended december 31, 2007, the company revised its initial purchase price allocation of its acquired interest in hcp mop, which resulted in the company allocating an additional $42 million to land and reducing intangible assets by the same amount from its preliminary allocation at december 31, 2006. the changes from the company's initial purchase price allocation did not have a significant impact on the company's results of operations during the years ended december 31, 2007 and 2006. the calculation of the carrying amount of the assets and liabilities for hcp mop follows (in thousands): cash consideration paid for ge's partnership interest $ 141,286 carrying value of equity method investment 42,427 183,713 additional cash considerations paid to retire ge's loan to the venture and acquisition costs, net of cash acquired (3,123 ) total 180,590 fair value of liabilities assumed, including debt 277,993 total $ 458,583 the following table summarizes the purchase price allocation as of november 30, 2006 for hcp mop (in thousands): assets acquired buildings and improvements $ 342,073 land 61,397 restricted cash 2,056 intangible assets 42,853 other assets 10,204 total assets acquired $ 458,583 liabilities assumed mortgages payable $ 250,741 intangible liabilities 10,841 other liabilities 16,411 total liabilities assumed 277,993 net assets acquired $ 180,590 f-28 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) prior to november 30, 2006, the company accounted for its investment in hcp mop using the equity method of accounting because it exercised significant influence through voting rights and its position as managing member. however, the company did not consolidate hcp mop until november 30, 2006, since it did not control, through voting rights or other means, the joint venture as ge had substantive participating decision making rights and had the majority of the economic interest. the accounting policies of hcp mop prior to november 30, 2006, are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies (see note 2). (9) intangibles at december 31, 2007 and 2006, intangible lease assets, comprised of lease-up, favorable market lease intangibles, and intangible assets related to non-compete agreements, were $725.3 million and $430.3 million, respectively. at december 31, 2007 and 2006, the accumulated amortization of intangible assets was $101.6 million and $49.7 million, respectively. the increase in intangible assets in 2007 from 2006 was primarily attributable to the acquisition of seusa. the weighted average amortization period of intangible assets at december 31, 2007 and 2006 was approximately 10 and 21 years, respectively. at december 31, 2007 and 2006, unfavorable market lease intangibles were $311.5 million and $140.8 million, respectively. at december 31, 2007 and 2006, the accumulated amortization of intangible liabilities was $32.9 million and $6.7 million, respectively. the increase in intangible liabilities in 2007 from 2006 was primarily attributable to the acquisition of seusa. the weighted average amortization period of unfavorable market lease intangibles is approximately 10 and 12 years, respectively. for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, rental income includes additional revenues of $6.3 million, $1.5 million and $2.0 million respectively, from the amortization of net unfavorable market lease intangibles. for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the company recognized amortization expenses of $58.8 million, $18.2 million and $6.9 million, respectively, from the amortization of other intangible assets. for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, operating expense includes additional expense of $0.2 million, $0.7 million and $0.1 million, respectively, primarily from the amortization of net favorable market ground lease intangibles. estimated aggregate amortization of intangible assets and liabilities for each of the five succeeding fiscal years and thereafter follows (in thousands): intangible assets intangible liabilities net intangible amortization 2008 $ 97,356 $ 35,830 $ 61,526 2009 83,942 33,648 50,294 2010 70,018 28,960 41,058 2011 53,615 24,853 28,762 2012 49,156 23,823 25,333 thereafter 269,563 131,439 138,124 $ 623,650 $ 278,553 $ 345,097 f-29 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) (10) other assets the company's other assets consisted of the following (in thousands): december 31, 2007 2006 marketable debt securities $ 289,163 $ 322,500 marketable equity securities 13,761 15,159 goodwill 51,746 51,746 straight-line rent assets, net 76,188 35,582 deferred debt issuance costs, net 16,787 27,499 other 68,488 23,849 total other assets $ 516,133 $ 476,335 at december 31, 2007, the company had debt securities with a carrying value of $269.7 million, which includes $14.7 million in unrealized gains. at december 31, 2006, the company had debt securities with a carrying value of $323 million, which includes $23 million in unrealized gains. at december 31, 2007, the company had an unrealized loss of $0.5 million on one of its debt securities with a carrying value of $19.5 million, whereas, at december 31, 2006, there were no debt securities with unrealized losses. unrealized losses are primarily due to interest rate fluctuations during the year. the securities are not considered to be other-than-temporarily impaired as the company has the intent and ability to hold these debt investments until they recover in value or mature. debt securities accrue interest at interest rates ranging from 9.25% to 9.625%, and mature in november 2016 and april 2017. during the year ended december 31, 2007, the company realized gains totaling $3.9 million, which are included in interest and other income, related to the sale of $45 million of the debt securities. at december 31, 2007, the company had equity securities with a carrying value of $1.2 million, which includes $0.2 million in gross unrealized losses. unrealized losses are primarily due to interest rate fluctuations and market conditions during the year. the securities are not considered to be other-than-temporarily impaired as the company has the intent and ability to hold these equity investments until they recover in value. at december 31, 2007, the company had equity securities with a carrying value of $1.0 million, which includes $0.3 million in gross unrealized gains. at december 31, 2006, the company had equity securities with a carrying value of $15.2 million, which includes $2 million in unrealized gains. during the years ended december 31, 2007 and 2006, the company realized gains totaling $0.5 million and $2.0 million, respectively, related to the sale of various equity securities. in addition to the $1.2 million of equity securities at december 31, 2007, the company had $11.6 million of marketable equity securities where a loss of $4.1 million was recognized. the company evaluated the near-term prospects for the securities in relation to the severity and duration of the impairment and concluded that despite the company's ability and intent to hold this investment for a reasonable period of time sufficient for a forecasted recovery, the company has considered the investment to be other-than-temporarily impaired at december 31, 2007. (11) debt bank lines of credit and bridge and term loans in connection with the completion of the seusa acquisition, on august 1, 2007, the company terminated its former $1.0 billion line of credit facility and closed on a $2.75 billion bridge loan and a f-30 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) $1.5 billion revolving line of credit facility with a syndicate of banks. the company incurred a charge of $6.2 million related to the write-off of unamortized loan fees associated with its previous line of credit facility. the company's $1.5 billion revolving line of credit facility matures on august 1, 2011 and can be increased up to $2.0 billion subject to certain conditions. this revolving line of credit accrues interest at a rate per annum equal to libor plus a margin ranging from 0.325% to 1.00%, depending upon the company's debt ratings. the company pays a facility fee on the entire revolving commitment ranging from 0.10% to 0.25%, depending upon the company's debt ratings. the revolving line of credit facility contains a negotiated rate option, whereby the lenders participating in the line of credit facility bid on the interest to be charged which may result in a reduced interest rate, and is available for up to 50% of borrowings. based on the company's debt ratings on january 1, 2008, the margin on the revolving line of credit facility is 0.55% and the facility fee is 0.15%. as of december 31, 2007, the company had $951.7 million outstanding under this credit facility with a weighted average effective interest rate of 5.66% and $548.3 million of available, unused borrowing capacity. the revolving line of credit facility and bridge loan contain certain financial restrictions and other customary requirements. among other things, these covenants, using terms defined in the agreement, initially limit the ratio of (i) consolidated total indebtedness to consolidated total asset value to 75%, (ii) secured debt to consolidated total asset value to 30% and (iii) unsecured debt to consolidated unencumbered asset value to 90%. the agreement also requires that the company maintains (i) a fixed charge coverage ratio, as defined in the agreement, of 1.50 times and (ii) a formula-determined minimum consolidated tangible net worth. a portion of these financial covenants become more restrictive over a period of approximately two years and ultimately (i) limit the ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to consolidated total asset value to 60%, (ii) limit the ratio of unsecured debt to consolidated unencumbered asset value to 65% and (iii) require a fixed charge coverage ratio, as defined in the agreement, of 1.75 times. as of december 31, 2007, the company was in compliance with each of the restrictions and requirements of its revolving line of credit facility. the company's bridge loan with an initial balance of $2.75 billion, has an initial maturity date of july 31, 2008, and an extended maturity date of july 31, 2009 with the exercise of two optional 6-month extension options, subject to debt covenant compliance and extension fees. the bridge loan accrues interest at a rate per annum equal to libor plus a margin ranging from 0.425% to 1.25%, depending upon the company's debt ratings. based on the company's debt ratings on january 1, 2008, the margin on the bridge loan facility is 0.70%. using proceeds from sales of real estate in august 2007 and capital market transactions in october 2007, the company made aggregate payments of approximately $1.4 billion, reducing the outstanding principal balance of the bridge loan to $1.35 billion. on october 5, 2006, in connection with the crp merger, the company entered into credit agreements with a syndicate of banks providing for aggregate borrowings of $3.4 billion. the facilities included a $0.7 billion bridge loan, a $1.7 billion two-year term loan and a $1.0 billion bank line of credit. concurrent with the acquisition of seusa, the company terminated the $1.0 billion bank line of credit. the company repaid the bridge loan facility on november 10, 2006. on january 22, 2007, the company repaid all amounts outstanding under a former $1.7 billion term loan with proceeds from capital market, sales of assets and joint venture transactions. senior unsecured notes at december 31, 2007, the company had $3.8 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes outstanding. interest rates on the notes ranged from 4.88% to 7.07% at december 31, 2007. the weighted average effective interest rate on the senior unsecured notes at december 31, 2007 f-31 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) and 2006, was 6.18% and 5.88%, respectively. discounts and premiums are amortized to interest expense over the term of the related debt. the following is a summary of senior unsecured notes outstanding at december 31, 2007 (dollars in thousands): year issued maturity principal amount contractual interest rate 2006 2008 $ 300,000 5.44% 1995 2010 6,421 6.62 2005 2010 200,000 4.88 2006 2011 300,000 5.95 2002 2012 250,000 6.45 2006 2013 550,000 5.63-5.65 2004 2014 87,000 5.89-6.29 2003 2015 200,000 6.00 1998 2015 200,000 7.07 2006 2016 400,000 6.30 2005 2017 250,000 5.63 2007 2017 500,000 6.00 2007 2018 600,000 6.70 3,843,421 net discounts (23,471 ) $ 3,819,950 on february 27, 2006, the company issued $150 million of 5.625% senior unsecured notes due in 2013. the notes were priced at 99.071% of the principal amount for an effective yield of 5.788%. the company received net proceeds of $149 million, which were used to repay outstanding indebtedness and for other general corporate purposes. on september 19, 2006, the company issued $1 billion of senior unsecured notes, which consisted of $300 million of floating rate notes due in 2008, $300 million of 5.95% notes due in 2011 and $400 million of 6.30% notes due in 2016. the notes were priced at 100% of the principal amount for the floating rate notes due in 2008, 99.971% of the principal amount for an effective yield of 5.957% for the 5.95% notes due in 2011, and 99.877% of the principal amount for an effective yield of 6.317% for the 6.30% notes due in 2016. the company received net proceeds of $994 million, which together with cash on hand and borrowings under the new credit facilities were used to repay its then existing credit facility and to finance the crp merger. on december 4, 2006, the company issued $400 million of 5.65% senior unsecured notes due in 2013. the notes were priced at 99.768% of the principal amount for an effective yield of 5.69%. the company received net proceeds of $396 million, which were used to repay indebtedness under the term loan facility. on january 22, 2007, the company issued $500 million in aggregate principal amount of 6.00% senior unsecured notes due in 2017. the notes were priced at 99.323% of the principal amount for an effective yield of 6.09%. the company received net proceeds of approximately $493 million, which were used to repay its former term loan facility and reduce outstanding borrowings under its revolving credit facility. f-32 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) on october 15, 2007, the company issued $600 million in aggregate principal amount of 6.70% senior unsecured notes due in 2018. the notes were priced at 99.793% of the principal amount for an effective yield of 6.73%. the company received net proceeds of approximately $595 million, which were used to repay outstanding borrowings under the company's bridge loan. in february and october 2006, the company repaid an aggregate of $255 million of maturing senior unsecured notes which accrued interest at a weighted average rate of 7.1%. in march and april 2007, the company repaid an aggregate of $20 million of maturing senior unsecured notes which accrued interest at a weighted average rate of 7.46%. the senior unsecured notes contain certain covenants including limitations on debt and other customary terms. as of december 31, 2007, the company was in compliance with these covenants. mortgage debt at december 31, 2007, the company had $1.3 billion in mortgage debt secured by 199 healthcare facilities with a carrying amount of $2.7 billion. interest rates on the mortgage notes ranged from 3.33% to 8.63% with a weighted average effective rate of 6.02% at december 31, 2007. following is a summary of mortgage debt outstanding by maturity date at december 31, 2007 (dollars in thousands): maturity amount weighted average interest rate 2008 $ 67,233 6.16 % 2009 217,707 6.00 2010 284,534 6.20 2011 125,292 6.50 2012 98,209 6.05 2013 77,674 6.41 2014 215,146 5.75 2015 40,590 5.45 2016 73,029 6.25 2019 5,186 5.20 thereafter 69,087 6.04 1,273,687 net premiums 7,074 $ 1,280,761 secured debt generally requires monthly principal and interest payments. some of the loans are also cross-collateralized by multiple properties. the secured debt is collateralized by deeds of trust or mortgages on certain properties and is generally non-recourse. mortgage debt encumbering properties typically restricts title transfer of the respective properties subject to the terms of the mortgage, prohibits additional liens, restricts prepayment, requires payment of real estate taxes, requires maintenance of the properties in good condition, requires maintenance of insurance on the properties and includes a requirement to obtain lender consent to enter into and terminate material tenant leases. on december 21, 2006, in anticipation of the company's senior housing joint venture that closed on january 5, 2007, the company expanded an existing secured debt facility to $686 million, receiving f-33 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) $446 million in proceeds. the facility, which encumbers the venture's 25 assets, bears interest at a weighted average rate of 5.66% and is classified as mortgage debt on assets held for contribution at december 31, 2006. the funds from the expanded debt facility were used to repay borrowings under the company's term loan facility. see note 8 for further discussion on the hcp ventures ii transaction. in addition to the mortgage debt issued discussed above, during 2006, the company obtained $165 million of ten-year mortgage financing with a weighted average effective rate of 6.36% in five separate transactions. the company received net proceeds of $161.9 million, which were used to repay outstanding indebtedness and for other general corporate purposes. on april 27, 2007, in anticipation of the formation of hcp ventures iv, $122 million of 10-year term mortgage notes were placed with an interest rate of 5.53%. the proceeds from the placement of these notes were used to repay borrowings under the company's previous $1.0 billion revolving credit facility and for other general corporate purposes. other debt in connection with the crp merger on october 5, 2006, the company assumed non-interest bearing life care bonds at its two ccrcs and non-interest bearing occupancy fee deposits at another of its senior housing facilities, all of which were payable to certain residents of the facilities (collectively "life care bonds"). at december 31, 2007, $39.4 million of the life care bonds were refundable to the residents upon the resident moving out or to their estate upon death, and $69.1 million of the life care bonds were refundable after the unit is successfully remarketed to a new resident. debt maturities debt maturities and scheduled principal payments at december 31, 2007 are as follows (in thousands): year bank line of credit bridge loan senior notes mortgage debt other debt total 2008 $ $ $ 300,000 $ 91,896 $ 108,496 $ 500,392 2009 1,350,000 271,844 1,621,844 2010 206,421 292,562 498,983 2011 951,700 300,000 130,069 1,381,769 2012 250,000 102,054 352,054 thereafter 2,787,000 385,262 3,172,262 $ 951,700 $ 1,350,000 $ 3,843,421 $ 1,273,687 $ 108,496 $ 7,527,304 (12) disclosures about fair value of financial instruments the carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash, receivables, bank lines of credit, bridge and term loans, payables, and accrued liabilities are reasonable estimates of fair value because of the short maturities of these instruments. fair values for loans receivable, senior unsecured notes and mortgage debt are estimates based on rates currently prevailing for similar instruments of similar maturities. the fair values of the interest rate swaps and warrants were determined based on f-34 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) observable market assumptions and standardized derivative pricing models. the fair values of the marketable equity and debt securities were determined based on market quotes. december 31, 2007 2006 carrying amount fair value carrying amount fair value (in thousands) loans receivable $ 1,065,485 $ 1,068,897 $ 196,480 $ 221,154 marketable debt securities 289,163 289,163 322,500 322,500 marketable equity securities 13,761 13,761 15,159 15,159 warrants 2,560 2,560 senior unsecured notes and mortgage debt 5,100,711 4,982,421 4,965,176 5,057,471 interest rate swaps-assets 2,022 2,022 interest rate swaps-liabilities 12,519 12,519 328 328 (13) commitments and contingencies legal proceedings. from time to time, the company is a party to legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims that arise in the ordinary course of the company's business. regardless of their merits, these matters may force the company to expend significant financial resources. except as described below, the company is not aware of any legal proceedings or claims that it believes may have, individually or taken together, a material adverse effect on the company's business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations. the company's policy is to accrue legal expenses as they are incurred. on may 3, 2007, ventas, inc. filed a complaint against the company in the united states district court for the western district of kentucky, asserting claims of tortious interference with contract and tortious interference with prospective business advantage. the complaint alleges, among other things, that the company interfered with ventas' purchase agreement with sunrise senior living real estate investment trust ("sunrise reit"); that the company interfered with ventas' prospective business advantage in connection with the sunrise reit transaction; and that the company's actions caused ventas to suffer damages, including the payment of over $100 million in additional consideration to acquire the sunrise reit assets. ventas is seeking monetary relief, including compensatory and punitive damages, against the company. on july 2, 2007, the company filed its answer to ventas' complaint and a motion to dismiss the complaint in its entirety. on december 19, 2007, the court denied the motion to dismiss. the company believes that ventas' claims are without merit and intends to vigorously defend against ventas' lawsuit. the company expects that defending its interests in this matter will require it to expend significant funds. the company is unable to estimate the ultimate aggregate amount of monetary liability or financial impact with respect to this matter as of december 31, 2007. in april 2007, the company and health care property partners ("hcpp"), a joint venture between the company and an affiliate of tenet healthcare corporation ("tenet"), served tenet and certain tenet subsidiaries with notices of default with respect to a hospital in tarzana, california, and two other hospitals that are leased by such affiliates from the company and hcpp. the notices of default generally relate to deferred maintenance and compliance with legal requirements, including compliance with the requirements of state of california senate bill 1953 ("sb 1953") (further described below). on may 8, 2007, certain subsidiaries of tenet filed a complaint against the company in the superior court of the state of california for the county of los angeles with respect to the f-35 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) hospital owned by the company and initiated arbitration actions with respect to the two hospitals owned by hcpp, in each case asserting various causes of action generally relating to such notices of default. upon tenet's failure to fully remedy all of the items set forth in the notices of default to the company's satisfaction, the company, on july 27, 2007, exercised its right to terminate the leases to tenet of four other hospitals owned by the company, effective december 31, 2007, invoking cross-default provisions under such leases. on september 24, 2007, tenet amended its original complaint and added claims by the lessees under the four terminated leases substantially similar to the previously-filed claims. tenet's subsidiaries are seeking declaratory, injunctive and monetary relief, including compensatory and punitive damages, against the company and hcpp. on october 8, 2007, hcpp responded to the claims by tenet's subsidiaries in the arbitration action, raising its own claims against tenet and the lessees of the two hospitals relating to the matters described in the notices of default, and on october 17, 2007, the company similarly filed a counterclaim against tenet and the plaintiffs in the california state court action. on october 16, 2007, lake health care facilities, inc., another subsidiary of tenet and the non-managing general partner of hcpp, filed a complaint against the company in the superior court of the state of california for the county of los angeles in which it alleges that the service of the notices of default upon hcpp's tenants was a breach of the company's fiduciary duties as managing partner of hcpp and that the company has breached the hcpp partnership agreement. the company believes that the claims by tenet's subsidiaries are without merit and intends to vigorously defend against their lawsuit. state of california senate bill 1953. the hospital owned by the company in tarzana, california, which hospital is a subject of the litigation with tenet described above, is affected by sb 1953, which requires certain seismic safety building standards for acute care hospital facilities. this hospital is operated by tenet under a lease expiring in february 2009. the company is currently reviewing the sb 1953 compliance of this hospital, multiple plans of action to cause such compliance, the estimated time for completing the same, and the cost of performing necessary retrofitting of the property. as indicated above, the company is currently disputing with tenet responsibility for performance of compliance activities. rental income from the hospital for the years ended december 31, 2007 and 2006 were $10.9 million and $10.8 million, respectively. at december 31, 2007, the carrying amount of the property was $71.7 million. development commitments. as of december 31, 2007, the company was committed under the terms of contracts to complete the construction of properties undergoing development at a remaining aggregate cost of approximately $95.7 million. concentration of credit risk. concentrations of credit risks arise when a number of operators, tenants or obligors related to the company's investments are engaged in similar business activities, or activities in the same geographic region, or have similar economic features that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations, including those to the company, to be similarly affected by changes in economic conditions. the company regularly monitors various segments of its portfolio to assess potential concentrations of risks. management believes the current portfolio is reasonably well diversified across healthcare related real estate and does not contain any unusual concentration of credit risks, except as disclosed herein. the company does not have significant foreign operations. on december 21, 2007, the company made an investment in mezzanine loans to hcr manorcare with an aggregate face value of $1.0 billion, for approximately $900 million. at december 31, 2007, these loans represented approximately 72% of our skilled nursing segment assets and 7% of our total segment assets. f-36 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) at december 31, 2007, the company leased 81 of its senior housing facilities to nine vie tenants which contributed 16% and 6% of the company's revenues for the year ended december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. at december 31, 2007, these properties had a combined gross real estate and net investment in direct financing lease value of $1.3 billion, which represented approximately 30% of our senior housing segment assets and 11% of our total segment assets. these vie tenants, are thinly capitalized corporations that rely on the cash flow generated from the senior housing facilities to pay operating expenses, including rent obligations under their leases. the 81 senior housing facilities leased to the vie tenants are operated by sunrise senior living services, inc. ("sunrise"), a wholly owned subsidiary of sunrise senior living, inc. the company acquired these leases in its merger with crp on october 5, 2006. no other tenant or operator contributed more than 10% of total revenues. sunrise is publicly traded and is subject to the informational filing requirements of the securities and exchange act of 1934, as amended and is required to file periodic reports on form 10-k and form 10-q with the securities and exchange commission ("sec"). however, sunrise is the subject of a formal sec investigation and is currently restating its financial statements for the years ended december 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005. in addition, sunrise has not filed its periodic reports on form 10-q and form 10-k subsequent to 2005. to mitigate credit risk of certain senior housing leases, including leases to the vie tenants, leases are combined into portfolios that contain cross-default terms, so that if a tenant of any of the properties in a portfolio defaults on its obligations under its lease, the company may pursue its remedies under the lease with respect to any of the properties in the portfolio. certain portfolios also contain terms whereby the net operating profits of the properties are combined for the purpose of funding rental payments due under each lease. at december 31, 2007 and 2006, the company's gross real estate assets in the state of california, excluding assets held for sale, represented approximately 31% and 14% of our total segment assets, respectively. downreit partnerships. in connection with the formation of certain downreit partnerships, many partners contribute appreciated real estate to the downreit in exchange for their downreit units. these contributions are generally tax-free, so that the pre-contribution gain related to the property is not taxed to the partner. however, if the contributed property is later sold by the partnership, the unamortized pre-contribution gain that exists at the date of sale is specially allocated and taxed to the contributing partners. in many of the downreits, the company has entered into indemnification agreements with those partners who contributed appreciated property into the partnership. under these indemnification agreements, if any of the appreciated real estate contributed by the partners is sold by the partnership in a taxable transaction within a specified number of years after the property was contributed, hcp will reimburse the affected partners for the federal and state income taxes associated with the pre-contribution gain that is specially allocated to the affected partner under the code ("make-whole payments"). these make-whole payments include a tax gross-up provision. master trust liabilities. certain residents of two of the company's senior housing facilities have entered into a master trust agreement with the operator of the facilities whereby amounts paid upfront by such residents were deposited into a trust account. these funds were then made available to the senior housing operator in the form of a non-interest bearing loan to provide permanent financing for the related communities. the operator of the senior housing facility is the borrower under these f-37 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) arrangements; however, two of the company's properties are collateral under the master trust agreements. as of december 31, 2007, the remaining obligation under the master trust agreements for these two properties is $14 million. the company's property is released as collateral as the master trust liabilities are extinguished. earn-out obligations. pursuant to the terms of certain acquisition-related agreements, the company may be obligated to make additional payments ("earn-outs") upon the achievement of certain criteria. if it is probable at the time of acquisition of the related properties that the earn-out criteria will be achieved, the earn-out payments are accrued. otherwise, the additional purchase consideration is recognized when the performance criteria are achieved. at december 31, 2007 and 2006, the company had earn-out obligations in the aggregate of $6.5 million and $7.1 million, respectively. credit enhancement guarantee. certain of the company's senior housing facilities are collateral for $140 million of debt (maturing may 1, 2025) that is owed by a previous owner of the facilities. the company's obligation under such indebtedness is guaranteed by the debtor who has an investment grade credit rating. these senior housing facilities, which are classified as dfls, were acquired in the company's merger with crp. as of december 31, 2007, the facilities have a carrying value of $347.1 million. environmental costs. the company monitors its properties for the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. the company is not aware of any environmental liability with respect to the properties that would have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition or results of operations. the existence of any such material environmental liability would have an adverse effect on the company's results of operations and cash flow. the company carries environmental insurance and believes that the policy terms, conditions, limitations and deductibles are adequate and appropriate under the circumstances, given the relative risk of loss, the cost of such coverage and current industry practice. general uninsured losses. the company obtains various types of insurance to mitigate the impact of property, business interruption, liability, flood, windstorm, earthquake, environmental and terrorism related losses. the company attempts to obtain appropriate policy terms, conditions, limits and deductibles considering the relative risk of loss, the cost of such coverage and current industry practice. there are, however, certain types of extraordinary losses, such as those due to acts of war or other events that may be either uninsurable or not economically insurable. in addition, the company has a large number of properties that are exposed to earthquake, flood and windstorm and the insurance for such losses carries high deductibles. should an uninsured loss occur at a property, the company's assets may become impaired and the company may not be able to operate its business at the property for an extended period of time. leases with certain tenants contain purchase options whereby the tenant may elect to acquire the underlying real estate. annualized lease payments to be received from leases subject to purchase f-38 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) options, in the year that these purchase options are exercisable, are summarized as follows (dollars in thousands): year annualized base rent number of properties 2008 $ 19,781 8 2009 35,815 20 2010 3,356 2 2011 7,828 11 2012 60,200 50 thereafter 126,980 91 $ 253,960 182 the company's rental expense attributable to continuing operations for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was approximately $5.2 million, $4.2 million and $2.6 million, respectively. these rental expense amounts include ground rent and other leases. ground leases generally require fixed annual rent payments and may also include escalation clauses and renewal options. these leases have terms that expire during the next 96 years, excluding extension options. future minimum lease obligations under non-cancelable ground leases as of december 31, 2007 were as follows (in thousands): year amount 2008 $ 4,744 2009 4,809 2010 4,591 2011 4,643 2012 4,630 thereafter 166,900 total $ 190,317 (14) stockholders' equity preferred stock the following summarizes cumulative redeemable preferred stock outstanding at december 31, 2007: series shares outstanding issue price dividend rate callable at par on or after series e 4,000,000 $ 25/share 7.25 % september 15, 2008 series f 7,820,000 $ 25/share 7.10 % december 3, 2008 the series e and series f preferred stock have no stated maturity, are not subject to any sinking fund or mandatory redemption and are not convertible into any other securities of the company. dividends are payable quarterly in arrears. f-39 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) dividends on preferred stock are characterized as ordinary income, capital gains, or a combination thereof for federal income tax purposes and are summarized in the following annual distribution table: annual dividends per share capital gain distribution ordinary income series dividend rate 2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 2005 series e 7.250 % $ 1.1444 $ 0.5838 $ 0.0504 $ 0.6681 $ 1.2287 $ 1.7621 series f 7.100 1.1208 0.5717 0.0493 0.6542 1.2033 1.7257 on january 28, 2008, the company announced that its board of directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.45313 per share on its series e cumulative redeemable preferred stock and $0.44375 per share on its series f cumulative redeemable preferred stock. these dividends will be paid on march 31, 2008 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on march 14, 2008. common stock dividends on the company's common stock are characterized for federal income tax purposes as taxable ordinary income, capital gain distributions, nontaxable distributions or a combination thereof. following is the characterization of the company's annual common stock dividends per share: year ended december 31, 2007 2006 2005 taxable ordinary income $ 0.6561 $ 1.1124 $ 1.0492 capital gain distribution 1.1239 0.5285 0.0300 nontaxable distribution 0.0591 0.6008 $ 1.7800 $ 1.7000 $ 1.6800 following is the characterization of distributions received by crp stockholders prior to the merger on october 5, 2006: january 1, 2006 to october 5, 2006 year ended december 31, 2005 taxable ordinary income % 67 % capital gain distribution (unrecaptured irc section 1250 gain income) 100 return of capital 33 nontaxable distribution 100 % 100 % during 2007 and 2006, the company issued 1.6 million and 0.8 million shares of common stock, respectively, under its dividend reinvestment and stock purchase plan (drip). the company issued 410,000 and 430,000 shares upon exercise of stock options during december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. during 2007 and 2006, the company issued 282,000 and 112,000 shares of restricted stock, respectively, under the company's 2000 stock incentive plan, as amended, and the company's 2006 performance incentive plan. the company also issued 121,000 and 129,000 shares upon the vesting of performance restricted stock units during december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. f-40 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) on october 5, 2006, the company issued an aggregate of 27.2 million shares of common stock in connection with the crp and crc mergers. on november 10, 2006, the company issued 33.5 million shares of common stock and received net proceeds of approximately $960 million, which were used to repay the bridge loan facility and borrowings under the company's previous term loan and revolving line of credit facility. on january 19, 2007, the company issued 6.8 million shares of its common stock and received net proceeds of approximately $261.1 million, which were used to repay outstanding borrowings under the company's former term loan facility and previous $1.0 billion revolving credit facility. on october 5, 2007, the company issued 9 million shares of common stock and received net proceeds of approximately $302.6 million, which were used to repay borrowings under the company's bridge loan facility. on january 28, 2008, the company announced that its board declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.455 per share. the common stock cash dividend will be paid on february 21, 2008 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on february 7, 2008. the annualized rate of distribution for 2008 is $1.82, compared with $1.78 for 2007. accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) ("aoci") december 31, 2007 2006 (in thousands) aoci unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities, net $ 14,222 $ 24,536 aoci unrealized losses on cash flow hedges, net (14,243 ) (4,596 ) supplemental executive retirement plan minimum liability (2,113 ) (2,215 ) foreign currency translation adjustment 32 total accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) $ (2,102 ) $ 17,725 (15) segment disclosures the company, together with its consolidated entities, invests primarily in real estate serving the healthcare industry in the united states. the company evaluates its business and makes resource allocations on its five business segments (i) senior housing, (ii) life science, (iii) medical office, (iv) hospital and (v) skilled nursing. under the senior housing, life science, hospital and skilled nursing segments, the company invests primarily in single operator or tenant properties through acquisition and development of real estate, secured financing and investment in marketable debt securities of operators in these sectors. under the medical office segment, the company invests through acquisition and secured financing in mobs that are primarily leased under gross or modified gross leases, generally to multiple tenants, and which generally require a greater level of property management. the acquisition of seusa on august 1, 2007 resulted in a change to the company's reportable segments. prior to the seusa acquisition, the company operated through two reportable segments triple-net leased and medical office buildings. the senior housing, life science, hospital and skilled nursing segments were previously aggregated under the company's triple-net leased segment. seusa's results are included in the company's consolidated financial statements from the date of the company's acquisition on august 1, 2007. the accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies (see note 2). there are no intersegment sales or f-41 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) transfers. the company evaluates performance based upon property net operating income from continuing operations ("noi") of the combined properties in each segment. non-segment assets consist primarily of real estate held for sale, real estate held for contribution and corporate assets including cash, restricted cash, accounts receivable, net and deferred financing costs. interest expense, depreciation and amortization and non-property specific revenues and expenses are not allocated to individual segments in determining the company's performance measure. see note 12 for other information regarding concentrations of credit risk. summary information for the reportable segments follows (in thousands): for the year ended december 31, 2007: segments rental and related revenues tenant recoveries income from dfls investment management fees total revenues noi(1) interest and other senior housing $ 298,213 $ $ 63,852 $ 8,579 $ 370,644 $ 347,940 $ 2,338 life science 79,664 19,326 98,990 73,293 medical office 286,556 48,936 5,002 340,494 190,725 hospital 128,156 1,092 129,248 127,364 46,967 skilled nursing 43,133 43,133 43,056 5,751 total segments 835,722 69,354 63,852 13,581 982,509 782,378 55,056 non-segment 20,620 total $ 835,722 $ 69,354 $ 63,852 $ 13,581 $ 982,509 $ 782,378 $ 75,676 for the year ended december 31, 2006: segments rental and related revenues tenant recoveries income from dfls investment management fees total revenues noi(1) interest and other senior housing $ 167,771 $ $ 15,008 $ $ 182,779 $ 169,930 $ 2,748 life science 14,919 3,935 18,854 14,097 medical office 165,942 28,098 3,895 197,935 125,096 hospital 94,448 34 94,482 93,148 13,941 skilled nursing 40,841 40,841 40,204 2,926 total segments 483,921 32,067 15,008 3,895 534,891 442,475 19,615 non-segment 15,201 total $ 483,921 $ 32,067 $ 15,008 $ 3,895 $ 534,891 $ 442,475 $ 34,816 f-42 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) for the year ended december 31, 2005: segments rental and related revenues tenant recoveries investment management fees total revenues noi(1) interest and other senior housing $ 84,281 $ $ $ 84,281 $ 78,209 $ 2,440 life science 12,124 3,462 15,586 11,327 medical office 113,463 17,605 3,184 134,252 84,077 hospital 91,122 91,122 90,145 2,366 skilled nursing 39,494 39,494 39,083 4,042 total segments 340,484 21,067 3,184 364,735 302,841 8,848 non-segment 14,057 total $ 340,484 $ 21,067 $ 3,184 $ 364,735 $ 302,841 $ 22,905 (1) net operating income from continuing operations ("noi") is a non-gaap supplemental financial measure used to evaluate the operating performance of real estate properties. the company defines noi as rental revenues, including tenant recoveries and income from direct financing leases, less property-level operating expenses. noi excludes investment management fee income, interest expense, depreciation and amortization, general and administrative expenses, impairments, equity income (loss) from unconsolidated joint ventures, gain on sale of real estate interest, interest and other income, net, minority interests' share of earnings and discontinued operations. the company believes noi provides investors relevant and useful information because it measures the operating performance of the company's real estate at the property level on an unleveraged basis. the company uses noi to make decisions about resource allocations and assess property-level performance. the company believes that net income is the most directly comparable gaap measure to noi. noi should not be viewed as an alternative measure of operating performance to net income as defined by gaap since it does not reflect the aforementioned excluded items. further, the company's definition of noi may not be comparable to that of other real estate investment trusts, as those companies may use different methodologies for calculating noi. f-43 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) the following is a reconciliation from noi to reported net income, the most direct comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accodance with gaap (in thousands): years ended december 31, 2007 2006 2005 net operating income from continuing operations $ 782,378 $ 442,475 $ 302,841 investment management fee income 13,581 3,895 3,184 interest expense (357,024 ) (211,869 ) (106,224 ) depreciation and amortization (274,348 ) (132,916 ) (85,781 ) general and administrative (70,930 ) (47,195 ) (31,834 ) impairments (3,577 ) equity income (loss) from unconsolidated joint ventures 5,645 8,331 (1,123 ) gain on sale of real estate interest 10,141 interest and other income, net 75,676 34,816 22,905 minority interests' share of earnings (24,356 ) (14,805 ) (12,950 ) total discontinued operations 428,252 338,392 82,039 net income $ 589,015 $ 417,547 $ 173,057 the company's total assets by segment were: as of december 31, segments 2007 2006 senior housing $ 4,461,719 $ 4,248,235 life science 3,461,101 160,152 medical office 2,336,772 1,971,754 hospital 1,474,310 1,273,173 skilled nursing 1,225,299 320,568 gross segment assets 12,959,201 7,973,882 accumulated depreciation and amortization (797,460 ) (562,911 ) net segment assets 12,161,741 7,410,971 real estate held for sale, net 171 512,187 real estate held for contribution 1,684,341 non-segment assets 359,860 405,250 total assets $ 12,521,772 $ 10,012,749 segment assets include an allocation of the carrying value of goodwill. at december 31, 2007, goodwill is allocated as follows: (i) senior housing $30.5 million, (ii) life science $1.4 million, (iii) medical office $11.4 million, (iv) hospital $5.1 million and (v) skilled nursing $3.3 million. in accordance with sfas no. 142, the company completed the required annual impairment test during the three months ended december 31, 2007. no impairment was recognized based on the results of the annual goodwill impairment test. f-44 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) (16) derivative financial instruments the company uses derivative financial instruments as hedges to manage risk associated with interest rate fluctuations on anticipated obligations and transactions. the company does not use derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. the primary risks associated with derivative financial instruments are market risk and credit risk. market risk is defined as the potential for loss in the value of the derivative due to adverse changes in market prices (interest rates). the use of derivative financial instruments allows the company to manage the risk of increases in interest rates with respect to the effects these fluctuations would have on earnings and cash flows. credit risk is the risk that one of the parties to a derivative contract fails to perform or meet their financial obligation under the contract. the company does not obtain collateral to support financial instruments subject to credit risk but monitors the credit standing of the counterparties, primarily global institutional banks. the company does not anticipate non-performance by any of the counterparties to its derivative contracts. however, should a counterparty fail to perform, the company would incur a financial loss to the extent of the positive fair market value of the derivative contracts, if any. in july 2005, the company entered into three interest-rate swap contracts that are designated as hedging the variability in expected cash flows related to variable rate debt assumed in connection with the acquisition of a portfolio of real estate assets. the cash flow hedges have a notional amount of $45.6 million and expire in july 2020. the aggregate fair value of these contracts at december 31, 2007, was $1.3 million and is included in other liabilities. for the year ended december 31, 2007, the company recognized increased interest expense of $0.1 million and expects to recognize an additional $0.1 million attributable to these contracts during 2008. during the years ended december 31, 2007 and 2006, there was no ineffective portion related to these hedges. in august 2006, the company entered into two treasury lock contracts that were designated as hedging the variability in forecasted interest payments, attributable to changes in the u.s. treasury rate, on the forecasted issuance of long-term, fixed rate debt between september 1 and october 31, 2006. the cash flow hedges had a notional amount of $560.5 million and were settled with the counterparty on september 16, 2006, which was the date that the forecasted debt was issued. the cash settlement value of these contracts at september 16, 2006, was $4.4 million. the unamortized amount of these contracts at december 31, 2007, is $3.7 million and is included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). the company determined that these treasury lock agreements were highly effective in offsetting the variability in the forecasted interest payments. amounts reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) related to these hedges will be recognized as additional interest expense on the company's hedged fixed-rate debt, maturing 2011 and 2016. for the year ended december 31, 2007, the company recognized increased interest expense of $0.5 million and expects to recognize an additional $0.5 million attributable to these contracts during 2008. during october and november 2007, the company entered into two forward-starting interest rate swap contracts with notional amounts aggregating $900 million. both contracts are required to be cash settled by june 30, 2008. the interest rate swap contracts are designated in qualifying, cash flow hedging relationships, to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in the benchmark interest rate component of interest payments on forecasted unsecured, fixed-rate debt expected to be issued in 2008. at december 31, 2007, the fair value of the two contracts were $2 million and $11 million, and are included in other assets and accounts payable and accrued liabilities, respectively. all components of the forward-starting interest rate swap contracts were included in the assessment and measurement of f-45 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) hedge effectiveness. no amounts were reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income during the current fiscal year. the following table summarizes the company's outstanding interest rate swap contracts as of december 31, 2007 (dollars in thousands): date entered effective date swap end date(2) pay fixed rate receive floating rate index notional amount fair value july 13, 2005 july 19, 2005 july 15, 2020 3.820 % bma swap index $ 45,600 $ (1,311 ) october 24, 2007 june 30, 2008 (1) june 30, 2018 4.999 3 month libor 500,000 (11,208 ) november 29, 2007 june 30, 2008 (1) june 30, 2018 4.648 3 month libor 400,000 2,022 total $ 945,600 $ (10,497 ) (1) at the effective date the company is mandatorily required to cash settle the forward-starting interest rate swap at fair value. (2) swap end date represents the outside date of the interest rate swap for the purpose of establishing its fair value. other financial derivative instruments as part of the company's acquisition of seusa in august 2007, the company received two warrants to purchase common stock in publicly traded corporations that expire in 2013 and 2015. for the year ended december 31, 2007, these derivative instruments had an aggregate fair value of $2.6 million and are included in other assets. during the year ended december 31, 2007, the company recognized $1.8 million in other income due to an increase in fair value of the instruments since their acquisition. (17) income taxes the company recorded income tax expense of $3.5 million in 2007 and a benefit of $0.7 million in 2005. the company's federal and state income tax expense in 2006 was insignificant. income taxes related to continuing operations were $1.5 million in 2007 and a benefit of $0.7 million in 2005. state taxes compromised $1.7 million, or 49%, of total income tax expense in 2007 and were insignificant for 2005. the company's deferred income tax expense and its ending balance in deferred tax assets and liabilities were insignificant in the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. income taxes related to continuing operations are included in general and administrative expense. at december 31, 2007 and 2006, the tax basis of the company's net assets is less than the reported amounts by $2.4 billion and $481 million, respectively. the increase in the difference between the reported amounts and the tax basis is primarily related to the company's acquisitions of seusa. the company files numerous u.s. federal, state and local income and franchise tax returns. with few exceptions, the company is no longer subject to u.s. federal, state or local tax examinations by taxing authorities for years prior to 2004. crc merger on october 5, 2006, the company merged with crc, a corporation subject to federal and state income taxes. for federal income tax purposes, the crc merger was treated as a tax-free transaction f-46 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) resulting in a carry-over tax basis in its assets. at december 31, 2007 and 2006, the company's net tax basis in the crc assets is less than reported amounts by $68.4 million and $74.4 million, respectively. seusa acquisition on august 1, 2007, hcp life science reit, a wholly-owned subsidiary, acquired the stock of seusa, causing seusa to become a qualified reit subsidiary. as a result of the acquisition, hcp life science reit succeeded to seusa's tax attributes, including seusa's tax basis in its net assets. prior to the acquisition, seusa was a corporation subject to federal and state income taxes. hcp life science reit will be subject to a corporate-level tax on any taxable disposition of seusa's pre-acquisition assets that occurred within ten years after the august 1, 2007 acquisition. the corporate-level tax would be assessed only to the extent of the built-in gain that existed on the date of acquisition, based on the fair market value of the asset on august 1, 2007. the company does not expect to dispose of any asset included in the seusa acquisition, if such a disposition would result in the imposition of a material tax liability. as a result, the company has not recorded a deferred tax liability associated with this corporate-level tax. gains from asset dispositions occurring more than 10 years after the acquisition will not be subject to this corporate-level tax. however, the company may dispose of seusa assets before the 10-year period if it is able to affect a tax deferred exchange. at december 31, 2007, the tax basis of the company's net assets included in the seusa acquisition is less than the reported amounts by $1.8 billion. in connection with the seusa acquisition, the company assumed seusa's unrecognized tax benefits of $8.0 million. a reconciliation of the company's beginning and ending unrecognized tax benefits follows (in thousands): amount balance at january 1, 2007 $ additions for tax positions of prior years seusa acquisition 7,975 balance at december 31, 2007 $ 7,975 the company has an agreement with the seller of seusa where any increases in the liability will be the responsibility of the seller or any decreases will be refunded to the seller. f-47 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) taxable income reconciliation the following is a reconciliation of net income available to common stockholders to taxable income available to common stockholders (in thousands): year ended december 31, 2007 2006 2005 (unaudited) net income available to common stockholders $ 567,885 $ 396,417 $ 151,927 book to tax differences: net gains on dispositions of real estate (71,626 ) (173,920 ) (1,139 ) straight-line rent (38,050 ) (10,939 ) (6,770 ) depreciation and amortization (19,137 ) (12,179 ) (5,438 ) capitalized interest (5,443 ) (302 ) (147 ) prepaid rent and other deferred income 11,185 1,659 (100 ) income from joint ventures 14,283 85 1,975 income (loss) from taxable reit subsidiaries (6,085 ) 588 (38 ) other differences, net 12,497 6,803 (11,939 ) taxable income available to common stockholders $ 465,509 $ 208,212 $ 128,331 (18) future minimum rents future minimum lease payments to be received, excluding operating expense reimbursements, from tenants under non-cancelable operating leases as of december 31, 2007, are as follows (in thousands): year amount 2008 $ 1,064,149 2009 1,010,779 2010 959,619 2011 908,244 2012 863,928 thereafter 5,782,999 $ 10,589,718 (19) impairments during 2006, 30 properties were determined to be impaired, resulting in impairment charges of $9.6 million. a decrease in expected cash flows from one property in the senior housing segment resulted in an impairment charge of $1 million. as a result of the contribution of 25 properties into a senior housing joint venture in january 2007, the company recognized an impairment charge of $2.6 million. impairment charges of $6.0 million were recognized in discontinued operations as a result of the disposition of four skilled nursing properties. during 2007 and 2005, no properties were determined to be impaired. f-48 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) (20) compensation plans stock based compensation on may 11, 2006, the company's stockholders approved the 2006 performance incentive plan (the "2006 incentive plan"). the 2006 incentive plan replaces the company's 2000 stock incentive plan (collectively, the "stock incentive plans") and provides for the granting of stock-based compensation, including stock options, restricted stock and performance restricted stock units to officers, employees and directors in connection with their employment with or services provided to the company. the maximum number of shares originally reserved for awards under the 2006 incentive plan is 8.2 million shares. the maximum number of shares available for future awards under the 2006 incentive plan is 6.9 million shares at december 31, 2007, of which 3.5 million shares may be issued as restricted stock and performance restricted stock units. stock options stock options are generally granted with an exercise price equal to the fair market value of the underlying stock on the date of grant. stock options generally vest ratably over a five-year period and have a 10-year contractual term. vesting of certain options may accelerate upon retirement, a change in control of the company, as defined, and other events. a summary of the option activity is presented in the following table (in thousands, except per share amounts): shares under options weighted average exercise price weighted average remaining contractual term (years) aggregate intrinsic value outstanding as of december 31, 2006 4,337 $ 23.93 granted 616 exercised (410 ) forfeited (307 ) outstanding as of december 31, 2007 4,236 $ 26.25 6.7 $ 39,083 exercisable as of december 31, 2007 1,959 $ 22.47 5.4 $ 24,362 the following table summarizes additional information concerning outstanding and exercisable stock options at december 31, 2007 (shares in thousands): weighted average remaining contractual life in years currently exercisable range of exercise price shares under options weighted average exercise price shares under options weighted average exercise price $11.94 - $16.88 260 $ 14.12 2.3 260 $ 14.12 17.43 - 18.73 284 18.11 4.3 270 18.09 19.14 - 21.40 362 19.18 4.5 302 19.19 23.50 - 27.52 2,778 26.47 7.1 1,127 26.32 39.72 552 39.72 9.1 4,236 26.25 6.7 1,959 22.47 f-49 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) the following table summarizes additional information concerning unvested stock options at december 31, 2007 (shares in thousands): shares under options weighted average grant date fair value unvested at december 31, 2006 2,754 $ 1.90 granted 616 5.20 vested (786 ) 1.60 forfeited (307 ) 2.70 unvested at december 31, 2007 2,277 2.70 the weighted average fair value per share at the date of grant for options awarded during the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $5.20, $2.20 and $1.90, respectively. the total vesting date intrinsic values of shares under options vested during the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $1.3 million, $1.0 million and $0.6 million, respectively. the total intrinsic value of vested shares under options at december 31, 2007 was $24.4 million. proceeds received from options exercised under the stock incentive plans for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 were $8.1 million, $7.9 million and $22.9 million, respectively. the total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $5.3 million, $4.6 million and $14.8 million, respectively. the fair value of the stock options granted during the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was estimated on the date of grant using a black-scholes option valuation model that uses the assumptions noted in the table below. the risk-free rate is based on the u.s. treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. the expected life (estimated period of time outstanding) of the stock options granted was estimated using the historical exercise behavior of employees and turnover rates. expected volatility was based on historical volatility for a period equal to the stock option's expected life, ending on the day of grant, and calculated on a weekly basis. 2007 2006 2005 risk-free rate 4.87 % 4.50 % 3.71 % expected life (in years) 6.5 6.5 6.5 expected volatility 20.0 % 20.0 % 20.0 % expected dividend yield 5.5 % 7.5 % 7.5 % restricted stock and performance restricted stock units under the 2006 incentive plan, restricted stock and performance restricted stock units generally vest over a three- to five-year period and have a 10-year contractual term. the vesting of certain restricted shares and units may accelerate upon retirement, a change in control of the company, as defined, and other events. when vested, each performance restricted stock unit is convertible into one share of common stock. the restricted stock and performance restricted stock units are valued on the grant date based on the market price of a common share on that date. generally, the company recognizes the fair value of the awards over the applicable vesting period as compensation expense. upon any exercise or payment of restricted shares or units, the participant is required to pay the related tax withholding obligation. the 2006 incentive plan enables the participant to elect to have the f-50 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) company reduce the number of shares to be delivered. the value of the shares withheld is the closing price of the company's common stock on the date the relevant transaction occurs. during 2007, 2006 and 2005, the company withheld 84,000, 50,000 and 15,000 shares, respectively, to offset tax withholding obligations. the following table summarizes additional information concerning restricted stock and restricted stock units at december 31, 2007 (units and shares in thousands): unvested shares restricted stock units weighted average grant date fair value restricted shares weighted average grant date fair value unvested at december 31, 2006 713 $ 27.13 373 $ 24.69 granted 248 39.72 282 32.75 vested (128 ) 26.74 (125 ) 23.17 forfeited (45 ) 30.94 (41 ) 29.40 unvested at december 31, 2007 788 30.84 489 29.21 at december 31, 2007, the weighted average remaining contractual term of restricted stock units and restricted stock was 8.2 years. the total fair values of restricted stock and restricted stock units when vested for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 were $9.3 million, $6.6 million and $3.0 million, respectively. on august 14, 2006, the company granted 219,000 restricted stock units to the company's chairman and chief executive officer. the restricted stock units vest over a period of ten years beginning in 2012. additionally, as the company pays dividends on its outstanding common stock, the original award will be credited with additional restricted stock units as dividend equivalents (as opposed to receiving a cash payment). the dividend equivalent restricted stock units will be subject to the same vesting and other conditions as applied to the grant generally. total share-based compensation expense recognized during the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $11.4 million, $8.2 million and $6.5 million, respectively. as of december 31, 2007, there was $33 million of total unrecognized compensation cost, related to unvested share-based compensation arrangements granted under the company's incentive plans, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.9 years. employee benefit plan the company maintains a 401(k) and profit sharing plan that allows for eligible participants to defer compensation, subject to certain limitations imposed by the code. the company provides a matching contribution of up to 4% of each participant's eligible compensation. during 2007, 2006 and 2005, the company's matching contributions were approximately $0.8 million, $0.5 million and $0.2 million, respectively. f-51 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) (21) supplemental cash flow information year ended december 31, 2007 2006 2005 (in thousands) supplemental cash flow information: interest paid, net of capitalized interest and other $ 327,047 $ 165,508 $ 99,862 taxes paid 1,785 13 106 supplemental schedule of non-cash investing activities: capitalized interest 12,346 895 637 accrued construction costs 13,177 real estate exchanged in real estate acquisitions 35,205 supplemental schedule of non-cash financing activities: mortgages assumed with real estate acquisitions 17,362 80,747 113,484 mortgages included with real estate dispositions 3,792 91,730 loans received upon sale of unconsolidated joint venture investments 6,228 restricted stock issued 282 111 121 vesting of restricted stock units 121 129 3 cancellation of restricted stock 41 61 22 conversion of non-managing member units into common stock 3,704 5,523 2,601 non-managing member units issued in connection with acquisitions 180,698 2,752 30,398 unrealized gains (losses) on available for sale securities and derivatives designated as cash flow hedges (20,673 ) 22,826 1,468 see also discussions of the seusa acquisition, crp and crc mergers, and hcp mop, hcp ventures ii, hcp ventures iii and hcp ventures iv transactions in notes 3 and 8. (22) earnings per common share the company computes earnings per share in accordance with sfas no. 128, earnings per share . basic earnings per common share is computed by dividing net income applicable to common shares by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period. diluted earnings per common share is calculated including the effect of dilutive securities. approximately 0.6 million and 0.9 million options to purchase shares of common stock that had an exercise price in excess of the average market price of the common stock during 2007 and 2005, respectively, were not included because they are not dilutive. for 2006, there were no anti-dilutive options to purchase shares of common stock. additionally, 10.1 million shares issuable upon conversion of 7.6 million downreit units during 2007, and 6.0 million shares issuable upon conversion of 3.4 million non-managing member units in 2006 and 2005 were not included since they are anti-dilutive. f-52 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) the following table illustrates the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share for the years ended december 31 (dollars in thousands, except per share and share amounts): 2007 2006 2005 numerator income from continuing operations $ 160,763 $ 79,155 $ 91,018 preferred stock dividends (21,130 ) (21,130 ) (21,130 ) income from continuing operations applicable to common shares 139,633 58,025 69,888 discontinued operations 428,252 338,392 82,039 net income applicable to common shares $ 567,885 $ 396,417 $ 151,927 denominator basic weighted average common shares 207,924 148,236 134,673 dilutive stock options and restricted stock 1,330 605 887 diluted weighted average common shares 209,254 148,841 135,560 basic earnings per common share income from continuing operations $ 0.67 $ 0.39 $ 0.52 discontinued operations 2.06 2.28 0.61 net income applicable to common stockholders $ 2.73 $ 2.67 $ 1.13 diluted earnings per common share income from continuing operations $ 0.67 $ 0.39 $ 0.52 discontinued operations 2.04 2.27 0.60 net income applicable to common shares $ 2.71 $ 2.66 $ 1.12 (23) transactions with related parties mr. mckee, a director of the company, is chief executive officer and vice chairman of the irvine company. during each of 2007, 2006 and 2005, the company made payments of approximately $0.4 million, $0.6 million and $ 0.6 million, respectively, to the irvine company for the lease of office space. mr. messmer, a director of the company, is chairman and chief executive officer of robert half international inc. during 2007, 2006 and 2005, the company made payments of approximately $0.5 million, $0.2 million and $0.1 million, respectively, to robert half international inc. and certain of its subsidiaries for services including placement of temporary and permanent employees, sarbanes-oxley compliance consultation and due diligence on acquisitions. mr. rhein, a director of the company, is a director of cohen &amp; steers, inc. cohen &amp; steers capital management, inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of cohen &amp; steers, inc., is an investment adviser registered under section 203 of the investment advisers act of 1940. as of december 31, 2007, mutual funds managed by cohen &amp; steers capital management, inc., ("cohen &amp; steers") in the aggregate, owned approximately 3% of the company's common stock. in addition, an affiliate of cohen &amp; steers provided financial advisory services to the company in 2007 and 2006. in respect of these services, the f-53 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) company made payments to the cohen &amp; steers affiliate of $5.5 million and $1.5 million during 2007 and 2006, respectively. mr. sullivan, a director of the company, was a director of covenant care, inc through march 2006. during 2006 and 2005, covenant care made payments of approximately $8.2 million and $8.0 million, respectively, to the company for the lease of certain of its nursing home properties. mr. roath, a director of the company, is the former chairman, president and chief executive officer of the company. mr. roath is a participant under the company's supplemental executive retirement plan ("serp"). during 2007, 2006 and 2005, the company made payments under the serp to mr. roath of approximately $625,000 per year. mr. elcan, an executive vice president of hcp, and certain members of mr. elcan's immediate family, including without limitation his wife and father-in-law, beneficially own, in the aggregate, greater than 2% of the outstanding common stock of hca inc. ("hca"). during 2007, 2006 and 2005, hca contributed $83 million, $37 million and $33 million in aggregate revenues and interest income, respectively, for the lease of certain assets and obligations under marketable debt securities. mr. elcan was formerly a senior executive and limited liability company member of medcap properties, llc, which was acquired in october 2003 by hcp and a joint venture of which hcp was the managing member. as part of that transaction, medcap properties, llc contributed certain property interests to a newly-formed entity, hcpi/tennessee llc, in exchange for downreit units. in connection with the transactions, mr. elcan received 610,397 non-managing member units in hcpi/tennessee, llc in a distribution of his interests in medcap properties, llc. each downreit unit is currently redeemable for an amount of cash approximating the then-current market value of two shares of hcp's common stock or, at hcp's option, two shares of hcp's common stock (subject to certain adjustments, such as stock splits, stock dividends and reclassifications). in addition, the hcpi/tennessee, llc agreement provides for a "make-whole" payment, intended to cover grossed-up tax liabilities, to the non-managing members upon the sale of certain properties acquired by hcpi/tennessee, llc in the medcap transactions and other events. mr. elcan did not receive any such payments in 2007 but remains eligible for such payments should any such properties be sold in the future. the hcpi/tennessee, llc agreement was amended, with an effective date of january 1, 2007, to change the allocation of the taxable income among the members, to more closely correspond with the relative cash distributions each member receives. previously, taxable income was allocated disproportionately to the non-managing members to reflect the priority rights of the non-managing member unit holders in distributions of cash. the amendment will have no effect on the amounts of cash distributions or the accounting for the minority interests held by the non-managing members. pursuant to the original purchase agreement dated october 2, 2003, the company paid $9.8 million during the year ended december 31, 2005, in additional purchase consideration in the form of an earn-out to the former members of medcap properties, llc ("medcap") related to the company's 2003 acquisition of four mobs that were under development at the time of acquisition. the amounts paid included $3.7 million paid to mr. elcan and mr. klaritch who are former members of medcap and officers of the company. at the time that the original purchase agreement was executed, mr. elcan and mr. klaritch were not officers of the company. notwithstanding these matters, the board of directors of the company has determined, in accordance with the categorical standards adopted by the board, that each of messrs. elcan, klaritch, f-54 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) mckee, messmer, rhein and sullivan is independent within the meaning of the rules of the new york stock exchange. the company own interests in certain unconsolidated joint ventures, including hcp ventures ii, hcp ventures iii and hcp ventures iv, as described under note 8. (24) selected quarterly financial data (unaudited) three months ended during 2007 march 31 june 30 september 30 december 31 (in thousands, except share data) total revenue $ 223,749 $ 223,176 $ 262,463 $ 273,121 operating income 21,567 33,994 15,738 22,358 total discontinued operations 113,267 13,854 289,638 11,493 net income applicable to common shares 140,005 66,001 316,866 45,013 dividends paid per common share 0.445 0.445 0.445 0.445 basic earnings per common share 0.69 0.32 1.54 0.21 diluted earnings per common share 0.68 0.32 1.53 0.21 three months ended during 2006 march 31 june 30 september 30 december 31 (in thousands, except share data) total revenue $ 99,436 $ 110,115 $ 112,582 $ 212,758 operating income (loss) 16,649 22,459 20,042 (8,337 ) total discontinued operations 27,528 15,169 52,340 243,355 net income applicable to common shares 52,605 36,284 71,536 235,992 dividends paid per common share 0.425 0.425 0.425 0.425 basic earnings per common share 0.39 0.27 0.52 1.28 diluted earnings per common share 0.38 0.26 0.52 1.28 results of operations for properties sold or to be sold have been classified as discontinued operations for all periods presented. the above selected quarterly financial data includes the following significant transactions: on october 5, 2006, the company completed its merger with crp. the impact of the company's merger with crp is included in the results beginning in the quarter ended december 31, 2006. on october 27, 2006, the company formed hcp ventures iii with an institutional capital partner. upon sale of a 70% interest in the venture, the company received approximately $36 million in proceeds, including a one-time acquisition fee of $0.7 million. effective on the date of formation, the company began accounting for the interest in the joint venture as an equity method investment. on november 30, 2006, the company acquired the interest held by an affiliate of ge in hcp mop, which resulted in the consolidation of hcp mop beginning on that date. the impact of the company's consolidation of hcp mop is included in the results beginning in the quarter ended december 31, 2006. f-55 hcp, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) on december 1, 2006, the company sold 69 skilled nursing facilities for $392 million, recognizing gains on sale of approximately $226 million. on january 5, 2007, the company formed ventures ii with an institutional capital partner. upon the sale of a 65% interest, the company received approximately $280 million in proceeds, including a one-time acquisition fee of $5.4 million. effective on the date of formation, the company began accounting for the interest in the joint venture as an equity method investment. on april 30, 2007, the company formed hcp ventures iv with an institutional capital partner. upon the sale of an 80% interest in the venture, the company received proceeds of $196 million and recognized a gain on the sale of real estate interest of $10 million. these proceeds include a one-time acquisition fee of $3 million. effective on the date of formation, the company began accounting for the interest in the joint venture as an equity method investment. on august 1, 2007, the company acquired seusa. the impact of the company's acquisition of seusa is included in the results beginning in the quarter ended september 30, 2007. on august 15, 2007, the company sold 41 senior housing facilities to emeritus corporation for an aggregate price of $501.5 million, resulting in gains of $284 million. f-56 hcp, inc. schedule ii: valuation and qualifying accounts december 31, 2007 (in thousands) allowance accounts(1) additions deductions year ended december 31, balance at beginning of year amounts charged against operations, net acquired properties uncollectible accounts written-off disposed/ contributed properties balance at end of year 2007 $ 55,106 $ 23,383 $ 890 $ (1,964 ) $ (18,284 ) $ 59,131 2006 $ 25,050 $ 10,387 $ 21,592 (2) $ (1,923 ) $ $ 55,106 2005 $ 20,092 $ 6,588 $ $ (1,346 ) $ (284 ) $ 25,050 (1) includes allowance for doubtful accounts, straight-line rent reserves and allowance for loan losses. (2) additions primarily related to the cnl retirement properties, inc. and cnl retirement corp. mergers completed on november 30, 2006. f-57 hcp, inc. schedule iii: real estate and accumulated depreciation december 31, 2007 (dollars in thousands) gross amount at which carried at close of period 12/31/07 life on which depreciation in latest income statement is computed city state encumbrances at 12/31/07(1) land building improvements, cip and intangibles total accumulated depreciation and amortization date acquired/ constructed senior housing birmingham al $ $ 1,200 $ 8,023 $ 9,223 $ (1,956 ) 1997 45 birmingham al (35,724 ) 4,682 80,018 84,700 (2,362 ) 2006 40 huntsville al (19,510 ) 1,394 41,606 43,000 (1,259 ) 2006 40 huntsville al 307 5,893 6,200 (270 ) 2006 40 little rock ar (7,697 ) 1,922 17,878 19,800 (976 ) 2006 39 douglas az 110 703 813 (164 ) 2005 35 tucson az 2,350 24,037 26,387 (3,405 ) 2002 30 beverly hills ca 9,872 33,728 43,600 (1,223 ) 2006 40 camarillo ca 5,798 16,602 22,400 (553 ) 2006 40 carlsbad ca (13,962 ) 7,897 14,303 22,200 (623 ) 2006 40 carmichael ca (7,106 ) 4,270 14,195 18,465 (528 ) 2006 40 citrus heights ca (3,680 ) 1,180 8,557 9,737 (557 ) 2006 29 concord ca (25,000 ) 6,010 40,137 46,147 (3,008 ) 2005 40 dana point ca 1,960 16,168 18,128 (1,202 ) 2005 39 elk grove ca 2,235 7,465 9,700 (346 ) 2006 40 escondido ca (14,340 ) 5,090 24,619 29,709 (1,905 ) 2005 40 fairfield ca 149 2,835 2,984 (820 ) 1997 35 fremont ca (9,804 ) 2,360 11,855 14,215 (938 ) 2005 40 granada hills ca 2,200 18,510 20,710 (1,406 ) 2005 39 hemet ca (2,973 ) 1,270 6,730 8,000 (325 ) 2006 40 irvine ca 8,220 15,601 23,821 (792 ) 2006 45 lodi ca 732 5,907 6,639 (1,902 ) 1997 35 murietta ca 435 5,934 6,369 (1,659 ) 1997 35 northridge ca (7,145 ) 6,718 19,682 26,400 (279 ) 2006 40 palm springs ca (1,287 ) 1,005 4,995 6,000 (220 ) 2006 40 pleasant hill ca (6,270 ) 2,480 21,569 24,049 (1,623 ) 2005 40 rancho mirage ca (6,709 ) 1,798 23,002 24,800 (837 ) 2006 40 south san francisco ca (11,308 ) 3,000 16,791 19,791 (1,251 ) 2005 40 san diego ca (7,849 ) 6,384 33,116 39,500 (1,343 ) 2006 40 san dimas ca (12,536 ) 5,628 29,872 35,500 (1,012 ) 2006 40 san juan capistrano ca (4,380 ) 5,983 6,517 12,500 (117 ) 2006 40 santa rosa ca (8,123 ) 3,582 26,618 30,200 (1,440 ) 2006 40 ventura ca (10,684 ) 2,030 17,644 19,674 (1,359 ) 2005 40 yorba linda ca (9,755 ) 4,968 21,032 26,000 (966 ) 2006 40 colorado springs co (9,642 ) 1,910 27,290 29,200 (1,281 ) 2006 40 denver co 2,810 36,021 38,831 (5,103 ) 2002 30 denver co (10,457 ) 2,511 29,089 31,600 (964 ) 2006 40 greenwood village co 3,367 32,633 36,000 (688 ) 2006 40 lakewood co (11,005 ) 3,012 30,288 33,300 (995 ) 2006 40 bristol ct 560 2,839 3,399 (481 ) 2002 30 enfield ct 480 3,107 3,587 (833 ) 2003 15 newington ct 310 2,007 2,317 (340 ) 2002 30 torrington ct 166 11,251 11,417 (983 ) 2005 40 woodbridge ct (3,777 ) 2,352 8,448 10,800 (271 ) 2006 40 altamonte springs fl 1,530 7,956 9,486 (1,476 ) 2002 40 apopka fl 920 4,941 5,861 (204 ) 2006 35 boca raton fl (12,128 ) 4,730 17,972 22,702 (1,101 ) 2006 30 boca raton fl 2,415 15,085 17,500 (486 ) 2006 40 boynton beach fl 1,270 5,232 6,502 (1,021 ) 2003 40 clearwater fl 2,250 3,207 5,457 (907 ) 2002 40 clearwater fl 3,856 12,627 16,483 (1,499 ) 2005 40 clermont fl 440 6,669 7,109 (267 ) 2006 35 coconut creek fl 2,461 14,639 17,100 (614 ) 2006 40 delray beach fl 850 6,957 7,807 (1,023 ) 2002 43 gainesville fl 1,020 13,692 14,712 (666 ) 2006 40 f-58 hcp, inc. schedule iii: real estate and accumulated depreciation (continued) december 31, 2007 (dollars in thousands) gainesville fl $ $ 1,221 $ 12,979 $ 14,200 $ (523 ) 2006 40 jacksonville fl 3,250 26,786 30,036 (5,110 ) 2002 35 jacksonville fl 1,587 11,313 12,900 (115 ) 2006 40 lantana fl 3,520 26,820 30,340 (1,490 ) 2006 30 ocoee fl 2,096 9,540 11,636 (908 ) 2005 40 oviedo fl 670 8,241 8,911 (324 ) 2006 35 palm harbor fl 1,462 15,538 17,000 (477 ) 2006 40 pinellas park fl 480 4,251 4,731 (1,654 ) 1996 35 port orange fl 2,340 10,158 12,498 (949 ) 2005 40 st. augustine fl 830 11,851 12,681 (970 ) 2005 35 sun city center fl 510 6,120 6,630 (765 ) 2004 35 sun city center fl 3,466 70,810 74,276 (7,666 ) 2004 34 tallahassee fl 1,331 19,869 21,200 (755 ) 2006 40 tampa fl 600 6,225 6,825 (1,734 ) 1997 45 tampa fl 800 11,542 12,342 (581 ) 2006 40 vero beach fl (46,056 ) 2,035 35,194 37,229 (1,437 ) 2006 40 alpharetta ga 793 9,207 10,000 (434 ) 2006 40 atlanta ga 1,211 5,889 7,100 (280 ) 2006 40 atlanta ga 687 5,813 6,500 (282 ) 2006 40 atlanta ga (4,567 ) 702 3,598 4,300 (155 ) 2006 40 atlanta ga (3,575 ) 2,665 9,535 12,200 (691 ) 2006 40 lilburn ga 907 16,093 17,000 (534 ) 2006 40 marietta ga 894 7,306 8,200 (349 ) 2006 40 milledgeville ga 150 1,687 1,837 (573 ) 1997 45 davenport ia (3,429 ) 511 8,389 8,900 (322 ) 2006 40 marion ia (2,780 ) 502 8,598 9,100 (415 ) 2006 40 bloomington il 798 10,802 11,600 (244 ) 2006 40 champaign il 101 3,799 3,900 (127 ) 2006 40 hoffman estates il (5,457 ) 1,701 12,517 14,218 (544 ) 2006 40 macomb il 81 6,519 6,600 (268 ) 2006 40 mt. vernon il 296 16,904 17,200 (672 ) 2006 40 oak park il 3,476 27,524 31,000 (668 ) 2006 40 orland park il 2,623 22,277 24,900 (764 ) 2006 40 peoria il 404 11,696 12,100 (532 ) 2006 40 wilmette il 1,100 9,100 10,200 (315 ) 2006 40 anderson in 500 6,375 6,875 (1,429 ) 1999 35 evansville in 500 8,171 8,671 (1,724 ) 1999 45 indianapolis in 1,197 8,303 9,500 (353 ) 2006 40 indianapolis in 1,144 9,289 10,433 (354 ) 2006 40 west lafayette in 813 9,387 10,200 (239 ) 2006 40 mission ks 340 9,517 9,857 (1,660 ) 2002 35 overland park ks 750 8,241 8,991 (1,924 ) 1998 45 wichita ks 219 3,374 3,593 (2,258 ) 1986 40 edgewood ky (1,287 ) 1,868 5,432 7,300 (302 ) 2006 40 lexington ky (8,010 ) 2,093 16,917 19,010 (2,331 ) 2004 30 middletown ky 1,499 27,501 29,000 (1,200 ) 2006 40 danvers ma (4,958 ) 4,616 36,884 41,500 (1,675 ) 2006 40 dartmouth ma 3,145 8,255 11,400 (378 ) 2006 40 dedham ma (11,055 ) 3,930 27,370 31,300 (1,365 ) 2006 40 plymouth ma (3,314 ) 2,434 6,466 8,900 (102 ) 2006 40 west springfield ma 680 4,044 4,724 (712 ) 2002 30 baltimore md (14,646 ) 1,416 12,984 14,400 (770 ) 2006 40 baltimore md 1,684 15,616 17,300 (423 ) 2006 40 frederick md (3,311 ) 609 10,791 11,400 (510 ) 2006 40 westminster md 768 5,619 6,387 (1,704 ) 1998 45 cape elizabeth me 630 3,957 4,587 (760 ) 2003 40 saco me 80 2,688 2,768 (460 ) 2003 40 f-59 hcp, inc. schedule iii: real estate and accumulated depreciation (continued) december 31, 2007 (dollars in thousands) auburn hills mi $ $ 2,281 $ 11,019 $ 13,300 $ (430 ) 2006 40 farmington hills mi (4,510 ) 1,013 14,287 15,300 (680 ) 2006 40 holland mi 787 51,411 52,198 (6,754 ) 2004 29 portage mi 100 7,817 7,917 (295 ) 2006 40 sterling heights mi 920 7,326 8,246 (1,326 ) 2001 35 sterling heights mi 1,593 11,707 13,300 (450 ) 2006 40 des peres mo 4,361 19,139 23,500 (628 ) 2006 40 richmond heights mo 1,744 19,541 21,285 (438 ) 2006 40 st. louis mo (13,450 ) 2,500 20,793 23,293 (1,274 ) 2006 30 great falls mt 500 5,801 6,301 (366 ) 2006 40 charlotte nc 710 9,959 10,669 (378 ) 2006 40 concord nc (2,422 ) 601 7,999 8,600 (370 ) 2006 40 raleigh nc (3,022 ) 1,191 9,509 10,700 (212 ) 2006 40 cresskill nj 4,684 55,716 60,400 (3,438 ) 2006 40 glassboro nj 162 2,876 3,038 (902 ) 1997 35 hillsborough nj 1,042 10,260 11,302 (926 ) 2005 40 madison nj 3,157 20,243 23,400 (785 ) 2006 40 manahawkin nj 920 10,187 11,107 (925 ) 2005 40 paramus nj (12,226 ) 4,280 30,720 35,000 (1,052 ) 2006 40 saddle river nj 1,784 17,616 19,400 (802 ) 2006 40 vineland nj 177 2,897 3,074 (923 ) 1997 35 voorhees township nj 900 7,968 8,868 (1,794 ) 1998 45 albuquerque nm 767 9,325 10,092 (2,573 ) 1996 45 las vegas nv 1,960 5,916 7,876 (532 ) 2005 40 brooklyn ny (11,612 ) 8,117 31,859 39,976 (1,744 ) 2006 40 sheepshead bay ny (12,331 ) 5,215 37,985 43,200 (1,295 ) 2006 40 cincinnati oh 600 4,428 5,028 (801 ) 2001 35 columbus oh 970 8,406 9,376 (525 ) 2006 40 fairborn oh 810 8,442 9,252 (421 ) 2006 36 fairborn oh 298 11,349 11,647 (375 ) 2006 40 marietta oh (5,057 ) 1,069 11,964 13,033 (184 ) 2007 40 poland oh (4,133 ) 695 13,905 14,600 (761 ) 2006 40 willoughby oh (3,567 ) 1,177 8,423 9,600 (227 ) 2006 40 oklahoma city ok (1,772 ) 801 6,599 7,400 (425 ) 2006 40 tulsa ok (3,389 ) 1,115 8,385 9,500 (201 ) 2006 40 haverford pa (32,799 ) 16,461 101,439 117,900 (2,951 ) 2006 40 east providence ri 240 1,562 1,802 (265 ) 2002 30 warwick ri 455 2,017 2,472 (342 ) 2002 30 aiken sc 357 15,543 15,900 (716 ) 2006 40 charleston sc 885 14,815 15,700 (666 ) 2006 40 columbia sc 408 7,892 8,300 (354 ) 2006 40 georgetown sc 239 3,136 3,375 (699 ) 1998 45 greenville sc 1,090 13,118 14,208 (495 ) 2006 40 greenville sc (2,005 ) 993 9,607 10,600 22 2006 40 lancaster sc 84 3,120 3,204 (619 ) 1998 45 myrtle beach sc 900 11,433 12,333 (428 ) 2006 40 rock hill sc 203 2,908 3,111 (723 ) 1998 45 rock hill sc 695 4,305 5,000 (189 ) 2006 40 sumter sc 196 2,866 3,062 (741 ) 1998 45 jackson tn 200 2,310 2,510 (1,062 ) 1999 35 nashville tn 812 15,188 16,000 (653 ) 2006 40 oak ridge tn 500 4,881 5,381 (203 ) 2006 35 abilene tx (2,083 ) 300 2,902 3,202 (157 ) 2006 39 arlington tx 660 1,925 2,585 (127 ) 2006 35 arlington tx 2,002 17,198 19,200 (678 ) 2006 40 arlington tx 2,494 12,806 15,300 (573 ) 2006 40 austin tx 2,960 41,645 44,605 (5,900 ) 2002 30 f-60 hcp, inc. schedule iii: real estate and accumulated depreciation (continued) december 31, 2007 (dollars in thousands) beaumont tx $ $ 145 $ 10,404 $ 10,549 $ (2,814 ) 1996 45 burleson tx (4,757 ) 1,050 5,388 6,438 (325 ) 2006 40 carthage tx 83 1,487 1,570 (526 ) 1995 35 cedar hill tx (9,553 ) 1,070 11,804 12,874 (622 ) 2006 40 cedar hill tx 440 7,638 8,078 (219 ) 2007 40 conroe tx 167 1,885 2,052 (632 ) 1996 35 fort worth tx 2,830 50,832 53,662 (7,201 ) 2002 30 friendswood tx 400 7,675 8,075 (1,220 ) 2002 45 gun barrel tx 34 1,553 1,587 (549 ) 1995 35 houston tx 835 7,195 8,030 (1,529 ) 1997 45 houston tx 2,470 22,560 25,030 (4,416 ) 2002 35 houston tx 1,008 16,092 17,100 (713 ) 2006 40 houston tx 1,877 26,623 28,500 (1,254 ) 2006 40 irving tx 710 10,144 10,854 (797 ) 2005 35 lubbock tx 197 2,466 2,663 (827 ) 1996 35 mesquite tx 100 2,466 2,566 (827 ) 1995 35 north richland hills tx (3,442 ) 520 5,247 5,767 (309 ) 2006 40 north richland hills tx (7,246 ) 870 9,435 10,305 (566 ) 2006 35 plano tx 494 13,106 13,600 (607 ) 2006 40 san antonio tx 730 4,276 5,006 (821 ) 2002 45 sherman tx 145 1,516 1,661 (537 ) 1995 35 temple tx 96 2,138 2,234 (680 ) 1996 35 the woodlands tx 802 18,198 19,000 (800 ) 2006 40 victoria tx 175 7,391 7,566 (1,363 ) 1995 43 waxahachie tx (2,388 ) 390 3,965 4,355 (228 ) 2006 40 salt lake city ut (10,872 ) 2,621 25,179 27,800 (1,236 ) 2006 40 arlington va (10,029 ) 4,320 24,080 28,400 (1,166 ) 2006 40 arlington va (3,407 ) 3,833 7,767 11,600 (345 ) 2006 40 arlington va (13,483 ) 7,278 39,098 46,376 (1,539 ) 2006 40 chesapeake va 1,090 13,004 14,094 (492 ) 2006 40 falls church va (4,175 ) 2,228 11,972 14,200 (646 ) 2006 40 fort belvoir va (28,982 ) 11,594 103,348 114,942 (3,462 ) 2006 40 leesburg va (1,008 ) 607 2,893 3,500 (111 ) 2006 35 richmond va (4,584 ) 2,110 10,890 13,000 (397 ) 2006 40 sterling va (7,054 ) 2,360 21,540 23,900 (684 ) 2006 40 woodbridge va 950 7,158 8,108 (1,616 ) 1997 45 bellevue wa (4,950 ) 3,734 13,166 16,900 (295 ) 2006 40 edmonds wa 1,418 19,282 20,700 (908 ) 2006 40 kirkland wa (6,028 ) 1,000 13,562 14,562 (988 ) 2005 40 lynnwood wa (3,055 ) 1,203 9,197 10,400 (467 ) 2006 40 mercer island wa (3,743 ) 4,209 8,491 12,700 (337 ) 2006 40 shoreline wa (9,930 ) 1,590 10,800 12,390 (839 ) 2005 40 shoreline wa 4,030 26,727 30,757 (1,880 ) 2005 39 snohomish wa (4,170 ) 1,541 12,659 14,200 (646 ) 2006 40 $ (642,530 ) $ 398,643 $ 3,112,453 $ 3,511,096 $ (218,256 ) life science brisbane ca $ $ 77,800 $ 4,321 $ 82,121 $ 2007 * carlsbad ca 27,000 3,694 30,694 2007 * carlsbad ca 20,800 3,456 24,256 2007 * hayward ca 900 8,700 9,600 (201 ) 2007 40 hayward ca 1,500 6,800 8,300 (113 ) 2007 40 hayward ca 1,900 11,100 13,000 (352 ) 2007 40 hayward ca 2,200 19,000 21,200 (263 ) 2007 40 hayward ca 1,000 3,200 4,200 (33 ) 2007 40 hayward ca 801 5,888 6,689 (124 ) 2007 40 hayward ca 539 3,963 4,502 (83 ) 2007 40 f-61 hcp, inc. schedule iii: real estate and accumulated depreciation (continued) december 31, 2007 (dollars in thousands) hayward ca $ $ 526 $ 3,868 $ 4,394 $ (81 ) 2007 40 hayward ca 944 6,944 7,888 (146 ) 2007 40 hayward ca 953 7,005 7,958 (147 ) 2007 40 hayward ca 991 7,288 8,279 (153 ) 2007 40 hayward ca 1,210 8,899 10,109 (187 ) 2007 40 hayward ca 2,736 20,114 22,850 (423 ) 2007 40 la jolla ca 5,200 5,200 2007 na la jolla ca 9,600 25,226 34,826 (525 ) 2007 40 la jolla ca 6,200 19,800 26,000 (441 ) 2007 40 la jolla ca 7,200 13,033 20,233 (411 ) 2007 27 la jolla ca 8,700 17,900 26,600 (498 ) 2007 30 mountain view ca 7,300 24,464 31,764 (140 ) 2007 40 mountain view ca 6,500 27,500 34,000 (698 ) 2007 40 mountain view ca 4,800 12,177 16,977 (125 ) 2007 40 mountain view ca 4,200 9,250 13,450 (121 ) 2007 40 mountain view ca 3,600 9,700 13,300 (101 ) 2007 40 mountain view ca 7,500 19,100 26,600 (753 ) 2007 40 mountain view ca 9,800 23,100 32,900 (192 ) 2007 40 mountain view ca 6,900 16,700 23,600 (115 ) 2007 40 mountain view ca 7,000 18,800 25,800 (523 ) 2007 40 mountain view ca 14,100 47,415 61,515 (749 ) 2007 40 mountain view ca 7,100 31,923 39,023 (323 ) 2007 40 poway ca 43,000 9,464 52,464 2007 * poway ca 30,000 3,707 33,707 2007 * poway ca 5,000 13,908 18,908 (127 ) 2007 40 poway ca 5,200 16,139 21,339 (148 ) 2007 40 poway ca 6,700 14,441 21,141 (150 ) 2007 40 redwood city ca 5,400 15,158 20,558 (144 ) 2007 40 redwood city ca 4,800 20,138 24,938 (351 ) 2007 40 redwood city ca 3,600 5,154 8,754 (102 ) 2007 30 redwood city ca 2,500 4,616 7,116 (85 ) 2007 31 redwood city ca 3,300 5,277 8,577 (63 ) 2007 31 redwood city ca 3,100 6,015 9,115 (139 ) 2007 31 redwood city ca 2,200 12,639 14,839 (275 ) 2007 40 redwood city ca 2,600 10,111 12,711 (389 ) 2007 40 redwood city ca 2,700 12,319 15,019 (405 ) 2007 40 redwood city ca 2,700 12,137 14,837 97 2007 40 redwood city ca 1,900 13,693 15,593 (364 ) 2007 40 redwood city ca 6,000 16,483 22,483 (1,657 ) 2007 38 redwood city ca 3,000 4,692 7,692 (148 ) 2007 26 redwood city ca 3,300 18,723 22,023 (770 ) 2007 40 redwood city ca 3,300 18,823 22,123 (771 ) 2007 40 san diego ca 12,600 373 12,973 2007 * san diego ca 7,872 42,069 49,941 (3,275 ) 2007 35 san diego ca 2,040 1,142 3,182 (183 ) 2007 40 san diego ca 4,630 2,277 6,907 (251 ) 2007 40 san diego ca 3,940 6,157 10,097 (741 ) 2007 40 san diego ca 5,690 6,899 12,589 (654 ) 2007 40 san diego ca 11,700 35,800 47,500 (476 ) 2007 40 san diego ca 7,000 43,200 50,200 (937 ) 2007 40 san diego ca 14,800 7,600 22,400 (106 ) 2007 40 san diego ca 8,400 44,200 52,600 (860 ) 2007 40 san diego ca (12,186 ) 7,740 23,302 31,042 (71 ) 2007 40 south san francisco ca 85 85 2007 * south san francisco ca 11,100 52,034 63,134 2007 * south san francisco ca 9,700 43,862 53,562 2007 * south san francisco ca 6,300 28,057 34,357 2007 * f-62 hcp, inc. schedule iii: real estate and accumulated depreciation (continued) december 31, 2007 (dollars in thousands) south san francisco ca $ $ 29,100 $ 4,072 $ 33,172 $ 2007 * south san francisco ca 6,100 2,312 8,412 2007 5 south san francisco ca 13,800 55,044 68,844 2007 * south san francisco ca 14,500 58,057 72,557 2007 * south san francisco ca 9,400 29,494 38,894 2007 * south san francisco ca 7,200 46,019 53,219 (396 ) 2002 39 south san francisco ca 14,400 100,477 114,877 (878 ) 2006 35 south san francisco ca 10,900 27,619 38,519 (450 ) 2006 35 south san francisco ca 3,600 100 3,700 2006 40 south san francisco ca 2,300 100 2,400 2006 40 south san francisco ca 3,900 200 4,100 (17 ) 2007 40 south san francisco ca 6,000 605 6,605 2007 40 south san francisco ca 6,100 1,100 7,200 (51 ) 2007 30 south san francisco ca 6,700 4 6,704 2007 40 south san francisco ca (8,848 ) 28,600 68,073 96,673 (2,036 ) 2007 40 south san francisco ca (3,929 ) 9,000 17,300 26,300 (151 ) 2007 40 south san francisco ca (8,388 ) 18,000 39,600 57,600 (524 ) 2007 40 south san francisco ca 4,900 18,200 23,100 (192 ) 2007 40 south san francisco ca 8,000 22,500 30,500 (92 ) 2007 40 south san francisco ca (5,225 ) 10,100 36,300 46,400 (843 ) 2007 40 south san francisco ca 8,000 27,200 35,200 (271 ) 2007 40 south san francisco ca 3,700 23,700 27,400 (339 ) 2007 40 south san francisco ca (5,352 ) 10,700 24,321 35,021 (285 ) 2007 40 south san francisco ca 7,000 16,800 23,800 (234 ) 2007 40 south san francisco ca 11,900 90,113 102,013 (1,203 ) 2007 40 south san francisco ca 10,000 68,300 78,300 (931 ) 2007 40 south san francisco ca 9,300 48,600 57,900 (621 ) 2007 40 south san francisco ca 11,000 43,605 54,605 (406 ) 2007 40 south san francisco ca 13,200 69,540 82,740 2007 40 south san francisco ca 10,500 58,800 69,300 (1,385 ) 2007 40 south san francisco ca 10,600 59,100 69,700 (1,388 ) 2007 6 south san francisco ca 14,100 64,057 78,157 (530 ) 2007 5 south san francisco ca 12,800 62,395 75,195 (621 ) 2007 40 south san francisco ca 11,200 70,520 81,720 (579 ) 2007 40 south san francisco ca 10,100 24,024 34,124 (250 ) 2007 38 south san francisco ca 5,666 6,817 12,483 (58 ) 2007 5 south san francisco ca 1,204 1,449 2,653 (14 ) 2007 5 salt lake city ut 500 8,548 9,048 (1,624 ) 2001 33 salt lake city ut 890 15,623 16,513 (2,612 ) 2001 38 salt lake city ut 190 9,875 10,065 (1,419 ) 2001 43 salt lake city ut 630 6,921 7,551 (1,195 ) 2001 38 salt lake city ut 125 6,368 6,493 (916 ) 2001 43 salt lake city ut 14,614 14,614 (1,597 ) 2001 43 salt lake city ut 280 4,345 4,625 (531 ) 2002 43 salt lake city ut 6,673 6,673 (600 ) 2002 35 salt lake city ut 14,683 14,683 (303 ) 2005 40 $ (43,928 ) $ 887,497 $ 2,385,189 $ 3,727,687 $ (47,112 ) medical office buildings anchorage ak $ (6,847 ) $ 1,456 $ 9,532 $ 10,988 $ (121 ) 2000 34 chandler az 3,669 14,020 17,689 (1,224 ) 2002 40 oro valley az 1,050 6,788 7,838 (1,230 ) 2001 43 phoenix az 780 4,021 4,801 (1,019 ) 1999 32 phoenix az 280 877 1,157 (123 ) 2001 43 scottsdale az 5,115 17,386 22,501 (1,545 ) 2006 40 tucson az 215 6,318 6,533 (1,282 ) 2000 35 f-63 hcp, inc. schedule iii: real estate and accumulated depreciation (continued) december 31, 2007 (dollars in thousands) tucson az $ $ 215 $ 4,044 $ 4,259 $ (552 ) 2003 43 brentwood ca (11,146 ) 39,203 39,203 (1,654 ) 2006 40 encino ca (7,208 ) 6,176 12,557 18,733 (1,086 ) 2006 33 los angeles ca 2,947 6,255 9,202 (3,012 ) 1997 21 murietta ca 439 10,142 10,581 (2,536 ) 1999 33 poway ca 2,700 11,518 14,218 (3,759 ) 1997 35 sacramento ca (12,414 ) 2,860 21,716 24,576 (6,137 ) 1998 32 san diego ca (7,732 ) 2,863 10,511 13,374 (4,023 ) 1997 21 san diego ca 4,619 21,837 26,456 (9,186 ) 1997 21 san diego ca 2,910 17,362 20,272 (4,051 ) 1999 35 san jose ca (2,764 ) 1,935 2,451 4,386 (549 ) 2003 37 san jose ca (6,436 ) 1,460 6,259 7,719 105 2003 37 san jose ca (3,349 ) 1,718 3,687 5,405 (280 ) 2000 34 sherman oaks ca (9,185 ) 7,472 12,390 19,862 (1,380 ) 2006 22 valencia ca 2,309 7,056 9,365 (1,988 ) 1999 35 valencia ca (4,962 ) 1,344 8,757 10,101 (618 ) 2006 40 west hills ca 2,100 11,550 13,650 (3,539 ) 1999 32 aurora co 8,764 8,764 (768 ) 2005 39 aurora co (4,745 ) 210 13,590 13,800 (879 ) 2006 40 aurora co (5,277 ) 200 9,304 9,504 (793 ) 2006 33 colorado springs co 12,933 12,933 2006 40 conifer co (853 ) 1,674 1,674 (186 ) 2005 40 denver co (4,587 ) 493 8,907 9,400 (804 ) 2006 33 englewood co (5,910 ) 10,673 10,673 (1,599 ) 2005 35 englewood co 10,212 10,212 (1,805 ) 2005 35 englewood co 9,416 9,416 (1,409 ) 2005 35 englewood co (4,690 ) 10,194 10,194 (1,469 ) 2005 35 littleton co (2,688 ) 5,801 5,801 (1,006 ) 2005 35 littleton co (3,027 ) 5,798 5,798 (811 ) 2005 38 lone tree co 18,156 18,156 (1,585 ) 2003 39 lone tree co (15,483 ) 26,170 26,170 (1,119 ) 2000 37 parker co 19,916 19,916 (1,064 ) 2006 40 thornton co 236 10,690 10,926 (1,429 ) 2002 43 atlantis fl (1,609 ) 4 5,894 5,898 (1,566 ) 1999 35 atlantis fl (1,347 ) 2,047 2,047 (472 ) 1999 34 atlantis fl 2,272 2,272 (515 ) 1999 32 atlantis fl 455 2,318 2,773 (131 ) 2000 34 atlantis fl (2,846 ) 1,507 3,211 4,718 (260 ) 2000 34 englewood fl 170 1,219 1,389 (76 ) 2000 34 kissimmee fl (323 ) 788 214 1,002 (29 ) 2000 34 kissimmee fl (492 ) 481 517 998 (38 ) 2000 34 kissimmee fl (6,106 ) 9,518 9,518 (394 ) 2000 36 margate fl (4,688 ) 1,553 7,094 8,647 (269 ) 2000 34 miami fl (9,373 ) 4,392 12,666 17,058 (764 ) 2000 34 milton fl (5,706 ) 10,317 10,317 (439 ) 2006 40 orlando fl 2,144 5,905 8,049 (1,135 ) 2003 37 pace fl 14,324 14,324 (955 ) 2006 44 pensacola fl 11,066 11,066 (617 ) 2006 45 plantation fl (864 ) 969 2,983 3,952 13 2000 34 plantation fl (5,618 ) 1,091 7,649 8,740 (339 ) 2002 36 st. petersburg fl (13,000 ) 15,147 15,147 (552 ) 2004 38 tampa fl (5,838 ) 1,967 9,358 11,325 (1,190 ) 2006 25 mccaysville ga (1,739 ) 3,819 3,819 (155 ) 2006 40 marion il 100 13,340 13,440 (619 ) 2006 40 brownsburg in 430 902 1,332 (204 ) 1998 35 indianapolis in 520 2,092 2,612 (535 ) 1998 35 indianapolis in 1,278 9,887 11,165 (2,575 ) 1998 32 f-64 hcp, inc. schedule iii: real estate and accumulated depreciation (continued) december 31, 2007 (dollars in thousands) indianapolis in $ $ 730 $ 3,554 $ 4,284 $ (932 ) 1998 35 indianapolis in 1,200 6,592 7,792 (1,718 ) 1998 35 indianapolis in 944 3,380 4,324 (1,001 ) 1998 33 indianapolis in 1,635 6,381 8,016 (1,940 ) 1998 35 indianapolis in 649 2,489 3,138 (865 ) 1998 35 indianapolis in 1,091 4,081 5,172 (1,159 ) 1998 35 indianapolis in (2,481 ) 1,203 6,678 7,881 (1,816 ) 1998 35 indianapolis in 3,547 11,489 15,036 (3,145 ) 1998 35 indianapolis in 420 3,598 4,018 (841 ) 1999 35 newburgh in (8,975 ) 15,770 15,770 (598 ) 2006 40 zionsville in 519 2,290 2,809 (642 ) 1998 33 wichita ks (2,255 ) 530 3,341 3,871 (458 ) 2001 45 lexington ky 14,997 14,997 (695 ) 2006 40 louisville ky (6,291 ) 936 10,262 11,198 (2,313 ) 2005 11 louisville ky (20,521 ) 835 29,849 30,684 (2,661 ) 2005 37 louisville ky (5,061 ) 780 9,702 10,482 (1,517 ) 2005 18 louisville ky (8,181 ) 826 15,404 16,230 (1,362 ) 2005 38 louisville ky (8,858 ) 2,983 14,996 17,979 (1,627 ) 2005 30 haverhill ma 800 9,244 10,044 (227 ) 2007 40 columbia md (3,778 ) 1,115 4,465 5,580 (334 ) 2006 34 glen burnie md (3,512 ) 670 5,085 5,755 (1,259 ) 1999 35 towson md (11,453 ) 17,018 17,018 (798 ) 2006 40 minneapolis mn (8,216 ) 117 13,389 13,506 (3,935 ) 1997 32 minneapolis mn (3,110 ) 160 10,408 10,568 (2,913 ) 1997 35 st louis/shrews mo (3,377 ) 1,650 3,767 5,417 (879 ) 1999 35 jackson ms (6,113 ) 10,201 10,201 (430 ) 2006 40 jackson ms (5,414 ) 8,742 8,742 (278 ) 2006 40 jackson ms (4,832 ) 9,348 9,348 (355 ) 2006 40 omaha ne (13,970 ) 18,892 18,892 (994 ) 2006 40 albuquerque nm 5,380 5,380 (258 ) 2005 39 elko nv 55 2,637 2,692 (671 ) 1999 35 las vegas nv (3,827 ) 1,121 4,910 6,031 (229 ) 2000 34 las vegas nv (3,992 ) 2,125 5,625 7,750 (369 ) 2000 34 las vegas nv (7,633 ) 3,479 13,274 16,753 (733 ) 2000 34 las vegas nv (1,103 ) 1,717 4,479 6,196 (150 ) 2000 34 las vegas nv (2,246 ) 1,172 1,878 3,050 (143 ) 2000 34 las vegas nv 3,244 18,972 22,216 (2,275 ) 2004 30 los angeles nv 17,044 17,044 (1,741 ) 2003 40 cleveland oh 823 3,127 3,950 (318 ) 2006 40 harrison oh (2,605 ) 4,561 4,561 (1,064 ) 1999 35 durant ok 619 10,904 11,523 (357 ) 2006 40 owasso ok 6,582 6,582 (360 ) 2005 40 roseburg or 5,707 5,707 (1,247 ) 1999 35 clarksville tn 1,195 6,537 7,732 (1,804 ) 1998 35 hendersonville tn 256 2,167 2,423 (217 ) 2000 34 hermitage tn 830 9,320 10,150 (1,118 ) 2003 35 hermitage tn 595 10,768 11,363 (1,780 ) 2003 37 hermitage tn 317 7,248 7,565 (1,222 ) 2003 37 knoxville tn 700 4,559 5,259 (1,758 ) 1994 35 murfreesboro tn (6,283 ) 900 11,936 12,836 (2,128 ) 1999 35 nashville tn (9,979 ) 955 13,376 14,331 (168 ) 2000 34 nashville tn (4,108 ) 2,050 5,905 7,955 (425 ) 2000 34 nashville tn (582 ) 1,007 377 1,384 (61 ) 2000 34 nashville tn (5,817 ) 2,980 8,193 11,173 (540 ) 2000 34 nashville tn (989 ) 1,171 591 1,762 (16 ) 2000 34 nashville tn (587 ) 515 727 1,242 (7 ) 2000 34 nashville tn (980 ) 266 1,314 1,580 17 2000 34 f-65 hcp, inc. schedule iii: real estate and accumulated depreciation (continued) december 31, 2007 (dollars in thousands) nashville tn $ (5,570 ) $ 827 $ 8,310 $ 9,137 $ (501 ) 2000 34 nashville tn (10,503 ) 5,425 11,819 17,244 (135 ) 2000 34 nashville tn (9,603 ) 3,818 16,227 20,045 (875 ) 2000 34 nashville tn (479 ) 583 305 888 10 2000 34 arlington tx (9,367 ) 769 13,344 14,113 (733 ) 2003 34 conroe tx (3,059 ) 324 5,784 6,108 (321 ) 2000 34 conroe tx (5,411 ) 397 8,528 8,925 (367 ) 2000 34 conroe tx (6,041 ) 388 8,030 8,418 (247 ) 2000 37 conroe tx (1,975 ) 188 4,126 4,314 (275 ) 2000 34 corpus christi tx (5,560 ) 717 10,515 11,232 (735 ) 2000 34 corpus christi tx (3,249 ) 328 3,869 4,197 (329 ) 2000 34 corpus christi tx (1,552 ) 313 2,134 2,447 (116 ) 2000 34 dallas tx (5,783 ) 1,664 7,877 9,541 (446 ) 2000 34 dallas tx 15,230 169,311 184,541 (5,593 ) 2006 35 fort worth tx (3,191 ) 898 5,439 6,337 (281 ) 2000 34 fort worth tx (2,325 ) 2 3,599 3,601 (710 ) 2005 25 fort worth tx (4,756 ) 5 7,960 7,965 (716 ) 2005 40 granbury tx (4,417 ) 8,889 8,889 (417 ) 2006 40 houston tx 300 3,770 4,070 (1,812 ) 1993 30 houston tx (11,550 ) 1,927 32,374 34,301 (7,128 ) 1999 35 houston tx (10,246 ) 2,203 20,026 22,229 (8,291 ) 1999 17 houston tx (3,433 ) 1,033 3,648 4,681 (268 ) 2000 34 houston tx (10,636 ) 1,706 13,363 15,069 (797 ) 2000 34 houston tx (2,104 ) 257 3,235 3,492 (215 ) 2000 35 houston tx 7 11,065 11,072 (582 ) 2004 36 houston tx (5,618 ) 6,537 6,537 (229 ) 2006 40 irving tx (6,049 ) 828 6,882 7,710 (491 ) 2000 34 irving tx 10,937 10,937 (498 ) 2004 34 irving tx (7,355 ) 1,604 17,159 18,763 (632 ) 2006 40 irving tx (6,652 ) 1,955 14,246 16,201 (782 ) 2006 40 lancaster tx 162 5,034 5,196 (367 ) 2006 39 lewisville tx (5,650 ) 561 8,359 8,920 (334 ) 2000 34 longview tx 102 7,998 8,100 (2,447 ) 1992 45 lufkin tx 338 2,383 2,721 (692 ) 1992 45 mckinney tx 541 6,640 7,181 (1,208 ) 2003 36 mckinney tx 7,988 7,988 (894 ) 2003 * nassau bay tx 10,363 10,363 (567 ) 2000 37 north richland hills tx (5,909 ) 812 10,149 10,961 (648 ) 2006 40 pampa tx 84 3,242 3,326 (985 ) 1992 45 pearland tx (6,066 ) 7,361 7,361 (167 ) 2006 40 plano tx (4,350 ) 1,704 7,923 9,627 (2,542 ) 1999 25 plano tx (8,309 ) 1,210 10,096 11,306 (444 ) 2000 34 plano tx (11,394 ) 1,389 14,702 16,091 (1,126 ) 2002 36 plano tx 2,059 22,390 24,449 (1,743 ) 2006 40 san antonio tx (5,938 ) 10,984 10,984 (934 ) 2006 35 san antonio tx (5,291 ) 10,770 10,770 (1,451 ) 2006 35 sugarland tx (4,188 ) 1,084 6,226 7,310 (510 ) 2000 34 texarkana tx (7,294 ) 1,177 9,773 10,950 (630 ) 2006 40 texas city tx (6,847 ) 11,183 11,183 (415 ) 2000 37 victoria tx 125 8,977 9,102 (2,607 ) 1994 45 bountiful ut 276 5,237 5,513 (1,416 ) 1995 45 castle dale ut 50 1,818 1,868 (462 ) 1998 35 centerville ut (348 ) 300 1,522 1,822 (347 ) 1999 35 grantsville ut 50 429 479 (109 ) 1999 35 kaysville ut 530 4,493 5,023 (632 ) 2001 43 layton ut (705 ) 2,827 2,827 (660 ) 1999 35 layton ut 389 7,132 7,521 (1,400 ) 2001 35 f-66 hcp, inc. schedule iii: real estate and accumulated depreciation (continued) december 31, 2007 (dollars in thousands) ogden ut $ (420 ) $ 180 $ 1,747 $ 1,927 $ (456 ) 1999 35 ogden ut 106 4,771 4,877 (275 ) 2006 40 orem ut 337 8,785 9,122 (2,534 ) 1999 35 providence ut 240 4,005 4,245 (1,093 ) 1999 35 salt lake city ut 201 815 1,016 (200 ) 1999 35 salt lake city ut (2,882 ) 180 15,046 15,226 (3,861 ) 1999 35 salt lake city ut 3,000 7,641 10,641 (1,225 ) 2001 38 salt lake city ut 509 4,552 5,061 (849 ) 2003 37 salt lake city ut 220 10,996 11,216 (2,879 ) 1999 35 springville ut 85 1,529 1,614 (382 ) 1999 35 stansbury ut (2,200 ) 450 3,240 3,690 (470 ) 2001 45 washington terrace ut 4,650 4,650 (1,377 ) 2002 35 washington terrace ut 2,731 2,731 (818 ) 1999 35 west valley city ut 1,070 17,470 18,540 (4,429 ) 1999 35 west valley city ut 410 9,257 9,667 (1,300 ) 1999 35 fairfax va (14,205 ) 8,396 20,097 28,493 (1,628 ) 2006 28 reston va 11,902 11,902 (1,169 ) 2003 43 renton wa 19,039 19,039 (4,661 ) 1999 35 seattle wa 59,642 59,642 (9,230 ) 2004 39 seattle wa 29,262 29,262 (6,207 ) 2004 36 seattle wa 9,739 9,739 (2,339 ) 2004 10 seattle wa 4,955 4,955 (1,223 ) 2004 25 seattle wa 10,072 10,072 (2,226 ) 2004 33 seattle wa 42,149 42,149 (918 ) 2007 30 charleston wv 465 410 875 (66 ) 2000 34 charleston wv 803 1,861 2,664 (221 ) 2000 34 plano tx 3,300 3,300 2006 na mexico city df 503 4,537 5,040 (310 ) 2006 40 $ (594,461 ) $ 204,146 $ 2,021,911 $ 2,226,057 $ (252,760 ) hospital fayetteville ar $ $ 700 $ 9,951 $ 10,651 $ (2,324 ) 1999 32 little rock ar 709 9,604 10,313 (3,677 ) 1990 45 peoria az 1,565 7,070 8,635 (2,828 ) 1988 45 tucson az 630 2,989 3,619 (686 ) 1997 45 fresno ca 3,652 36,490 40,142 (1,195 ) 2006 40 irvine ca 18,000 70,800 88,800 (16,526 ) 1999 35 los gatos ca 3,736 17,139 20,875 (12,479 ) 1985 30 tarzana ca 12,300 77,465 89,765 (18,068 ) 1999 35 colorado springs co 690 8,338 9,028 (3,155 ) 1989 45 ft. lauderdale fl 2,000 11,269 13,269 (2,829 ) 1992 40 palm beach gardens fl 4,200 58,250 62,450 (13,593 ) 1999 35 atlanta ga 4,300 10,677 14,977 (542 ) 2007 40 roswell ga 6,900 54,859 61,759 (12,861 ) 1999 35 idaho falls id 2,068 25,170 27,238 (2,901 ) 2001 45 overland park ks 2,316 10,704 13,020 (4,428 ) 1989 45 wichita ks 1,500 12,501 14,001 (2,918 ) 1999 35 baton rouge la 690 8,817 9,507 (170 ) 2007 40 bossier city la 1,965 15,498 17,463 (620 ) 2006 35 plaquemine la 636 9,722 10,358 (4,203 ) 1992 35 slidell la 2,520 19,412 21,932 (10,907 ) 1985 40 slidell la 1,490 22,490 23,980 (920 ) 2006 40 poplar bluff mo 1,200 34,800 36,000 (8,120 ) 1999 35 hickory nc 2,600 69,900 72,500 (16,310 ) 1999 35 bennetsville sc 794 13,700 14,494 (4,477 ) 1999 25 cheraw sc 500 8,000 8,500 (2,620 ) 1999 25 amarillo tx 350 3,800 4,150 (3,125 ) 1999 10 f-67 hcp, inc. schedule iii: real estate and accumulated depreciation (continued) december 31, 2007 (dollars in thousands) cleveland tx $ $ 400 $ 14,603 $ 15,003 $ (3,210 ) 1999 35 dallas tx 1,820 12,028 13,848 (558 ) 2007 40 dallas tx 18,840 147,233 166,073 (4,002 ) 2007 35 plano tx 6,290 23,648 29,938 (420 ) 2007 25 san antonio tx 1,990 12,993 14,983 (6,686 ) 1987 45 webster tx 890 5,161 6,051 (1,516 ) 1997 35 west valley city ut 2,900 59,696 62,596 (12,026 ) 1999 32 petersburg va 1,403 9,855 11,258 (262 ) 2006 40 greenfield wi 620 5,734 6,354 2 2006 40 morgantown wv 14,400 14,400 (3,363 ) 1999 35 $ $ 113,164 $ 934,766 $ 1,047,930 $ (184,523 ) skilled nursing el monte ca $ $ 360 $ 3,542 $ 3,902 $ (2,455 ) 1986 35 livermore ca 330 1,711 2,041 (1,483 ) 1985 25 lomita ca 510 1,222 1,732 (855 ) 1986 35 perris ca 336 3,394 3,730 (1,375 ) 1998 25 vista ca 653 6,429 7,082 (2,545 ) 1997 25 fort collins co 159 2,064 2,223 (1,814 ) 1985 25 morrison co 430 5,689 6,119 (4,823 ) 1985 24 statesboro ga 168 1,694 1,862 (710 ) 1992 25 rexburg id 200 5,310 5,510 (1,619 ) 1998 35 angola in 130 2,970 3,100 (747 ) 1999 35 ferdinand in 26 3,389 3,415 (1,464 ) 1989 40 fort wayne in 200 6,967 7,167 (1,152 ) 1999 38 fort wayne in 140 3,860 4,000 (977 ) 1999 35 huntington in 30 3,070 3,100 (793 ) 1999 35 jasper in 165 6,811 6,976 (1,672 ) 2001 35 kokomo in 250 5,932 6,182 (1,055 ) 1999 45 lebanon in 5,550 5,550 (1,259 ) 1999 45 michigan city in 555 5,494 6,049 (650 ) 2004 40 milford in 26 1,935 1,961 (953 ) 1991 35 new albany in 230 7,090 7,320 (1,767 ) 2001 35 petersburg in 25 2,434 2,459 (1,190 ) 1991 40 seymour in 7,897 7,897 (890 ) 2004 45 spencer in 70 7,440 7,510 (1,919 ) 2001 35 tell city in 95 7,812 7,907 (1,262 ) 2001 45 cynthiana ky 192 4,875 5,067 (351 ) 2004 40 mayfield ky 218 2,797 3,015 (1,489 ) 1986 40 franklin la 405 4,100 4,505 (1,684 ) 1998 25 morgan city la 203 2,050 2,253 (842 ) 1998 25 westborough ma 138 2,975 3,113 (2,239 ) 1985 30 bad axe mi 400 4,506 4,906 (1,126 ) 1998 40 deckerville mi 39 2,966 3,005 (1,386 ) 1986 45 mc bain mi 12 2,424 2,436 (1,143 ) 1986 45 las vegas nv 1,300 4,300 5,600 (1,272 ) 1999 35 las vegas nv 1,300 6,200 7,500 (1,753 ) 1999 35 fairborn oh 250 4,950 5,200 (1,232 ) 1999 35 georgetown oh 130 5,070 5,200 (1,260 ) 1999 35 marion oh 218 2,971 3,189 (2,030 ) 1986 30 newark oh 400 8,588 8,988 (5,036 ) 1986 35 port clinton oh 370 3,730 4,100 (947 ) 1999 35 springfield oh 250 4,239 4,489 (1,022 ) 1999 35 toledo oh 120 5,280 5,400 (1,347 ) 1999 35 versailles oh 120 5,080 5,200 (1,262 ) 1999 35 carthage tn 129 2,405 2,534 (341 ) 2004 35 loudon tn 26 3,879 3,905 (2,323 ) 1986 35 f-68 hcp, inc. schedule iii: real estate and accumulated depreciation (continued) december 31, 2007 (dollars in thousands) maryville tn $ $ 160 $ 1,472 $ 1,632 $ (702 ) 1986 45 maryville tn 307 4,376 4,683 (2,008 ) 1986 45 fort worth tx 243 2,575 2,818 (1,063 ) 1998 25 galveston tx 245 6,977 7,222 (1,476 ) 2002 35 port arthur tx 155 7,067 7,222 (1,490 ) 2002 35 texas city tx 170 7,052 7,222 (1,487 ) 2002 35 ogden ut 250 4,685 4,935 (1,428 ) 1998 35 fishersville va 751 7,734 8,485 (1,048 ) 2004 40 floyd va 308 2,708 3,016 (932 ) 2004 25 independence va 206 8,366 8,572 (1,098 ) 2004 40 newport news va 535 6,192 6,727 (875 ) 2004 40 roanoke va 586 7,159 7,745 (959 ) 2004 40 staunton va 422 8,681 9,103 (1,152 ) 2004 40 williamsburg va 699 4,885 5,584 (721 ) 2004 40 windsor va 319 7,542 7,861 (1,001 ) 2004 40 woodstock va 607 5,400 6,007 (763 ) 2004 40 $ $ 17,271 $ 285,962 $ 303,233 $ (83,717 ) total continuing operations properties $ (1,280,919 ) $ 1,620,721 $ 8,740,281 $ 10,361,003 $ (786,368 ) corporate and other assets 7,153 7,152 (3,530 ) total $ (1,280,919 ) $ 1,620,721 $ 8,747,434 $ 10,368,155 $ (789,898 ) * property is in development and not yet placed in service. (1) encumbrances include mortgage debt and other debt aggregating $1.4 billion. at december 31, 2007, $108.3 million of mortgage debt encumbered assets accounted for as direct financing leases, which are excluded from schedule iii above. cost accumulated depreciation schedule iii total $ 10,368,155 $ 789,898 less: real estate related intangibles assets and liabilities, net (389,552 ) (61,094 ) amount included under real estate on consolidated balance sheet $ 9,978,603 $ 728,804 f-69 hcp, inc. schedule iii: real estate and accumulated depreciation (continued) december 31, 2007 (dollars in thousands) (b) a summary of activity for real estate and accumulated depreciation for the year ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 is as follows (in thousands): year ended december 31, 2007 2006 2005 real estate: balances at beginning of year $ 6,449,184 $ 3,069,291 $ 2,552,529 acquisition of real state, development and improvements 3,506,681 5,247,010 576,932 disposition of real estate (2,216,406 ) (489,088 ) (68,048 ) impairments (7,052 ) balances associated with changes in reporting presentation 2,239,144 (1,370,977 ) 7,878 balances at end of year $ 9,978,603 $ 6,449,184 $ 3,069,291 accumulated depreciation: balances at beginning of year $ 519,965 $ 413,786 $ 340,889 depreciation expense 208,877 136,397 101,202 disposition of real estate (126,344 ) (115,680 ) (14,450 ) balances associated with changes in reporting presentation 126,306 85,462 (13,855 ) balances at end of year $ 728,804 $ 519,965 $ 413,786 f-70 quicklinks part i item 1a. risk factors quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 65 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk. at december 31, 2007, we were exposed to market risks related to fluctuations in interest rates on approximately: (i) $952 million of variable rate line of credit borrowings, (ii) $1.35 billion of variable rate bridge financing, (iii) $196 million of variable rate mortgage notes payable, (iv) $325 million of variable rate senior unsecured notes and (v) $1 billion of variable rate mezzanine loans receivable. of the $196 million of variable rate mortgage notes payable outstanding, $46 million has been hedged through interest rate swap contracts. of our consolidated debt of $7.5 billion at december 31, 2007, excluding the $46 million of variable rate debt where the rates have been swapped to a fixed rate, approximately 37% is at variable interest rates. interest rate fluctuations will generally not affect our future earnings or cash flows on our fixed rate debt, loans receivable or debt securities unless such instruments mature or are otherwise terminated. however, interest rate changes will affect the fair value of our fixed rate instruments. conversely, changes in interest rates on variable rate debt and loans receivable would change our future earnings and cash flows, but not significantly affect the fair value of those instruments. assuming a one percentage point increase in the interest rate related to the variable-rate debt and variable-rate loans, and assuming no change in the outstanding balance as of december 31, 2007, interest expense, net of interest income, for 2007 would increase by approximately $28 million, or $0.13 per common share on a diluted basis. we use derivative financial instruments in the normal course of business to manage or hedge interest rate risk. we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. derivatives are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value in accordance with sfas no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities . see note 16 to the consolidated financial statements for further information in this regard. the following table summarizes our interest rate swap contracts outstanding as of december 31, 2007 (dollars in thousands): date entered effective date swap end date(2) pay fixed rate receive floating rate index notional amount fair value july 13, 2005 july 19, 2005 july 15, 2020 3.820 % bma swap index $ 45,600 $ (1,311 ) october 24, 2007 june 30, 2008 (1) june 30, 2018 4.999 3 month libor 500,000 (11,208 ) november 29, 2007 june 30, 2008 (1) june 30, 2018 4.648 3 month libor 400,000 2,022 total $ 945,600 $ (10,497 ) (1) at the effective date we are mandatorily required to cash settle the forward-starting interest rate swap at fair value. (2) swap end date represents the outside date of the interest rate swap for the purpose of establishing its fair value. to illustrate the effect of movements in the interest rate markets, we performed a market sensitivity analysis on the noted hedging instruments. to do so, we applied various basis point spreads, to the underlying interest rates of the derivative portfolio in order to determine the instruments' change in fair value. the following table summarizes the analysis performed (dollars in thousands): effects of change in interest rates date entered maturity date 50 basis points -50 basis points 100 basis points -100 basis points july 13, 2005 july 15, 2020 $ 1,700 $ (2,600 ) $ 4,400 $ (4,800 ) october 24, 2007 june 30, 2018 19,000 (20,000 ) 38,000 (39,000 ) november 29, 2007 june 30, 2018 15,000 (16,000 ) 30,000 (31,000 ) 65 market risk. we are directly and indirectly affected by changes in equity and bond markets. we have investments in marketable debt and equity securities classified as available for sale. gains and losses on these securities are recognized in income when realized and other-than-temporary impairment may be periodically recorded when identified. the initial indicator of impairment for marketable equity securities is a sustained decline in market price below the amount recorded for that investment. we consider a variety of factors, such as: the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been less than cost; the issuer's financial condition, capital strength and near-term prospects; any recent events specific to that issuer and economic conditions of its industry; and our investment horizon in relationship to an anticipated near-term recovery in the stock or bond price, if any. at december 31, 2007, the fair value and cost, or the new basis for those securities where a realized loss was recorded as a result of an other-than-temporary impairment, of marketable equity securities was $14 million, and the fair value of marketable debt securities was $289 million, with an original cost of $275 million. at december 31, 2006, the fair value of marketable equity securities was $15 million, with an original cost of $13 million, and the fair value of the marketable debt securities was $323 million, with an original cost of $300 million. the principal amount and the average interest rates for our mortgage loans receivable and debt categorized by maturity dates is presented in the table below. the fair value estimates for the mortgage loans receivable are based on our management's estimates on currently prevailing rates for comparable loans. the fair market value for our debt securities and senior notes payable are based on prevailing market prices. the fair market value estimates for secured loans and mortgage notes payable are based on discounting future cash flows utilizing current rates offered to us for loans and debt of the same type and remaining maturity. maturity 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 thereafter total fair value (dollars in thousands) loans receivable: loans receivable $ 84,549 $ 7,502 $ 20,158 $ 3,148 $ $ 950,128 $ 1,065,485 $ 1,068,897 weighted average interest rate 14.00 % 6.51 % 10.45 % 10.24 % % 9.17 % 9.29 % debt securities available for sale $ $ $ $ $ $ 275,000 $ 275,000 $ 289,163 weighted average interest rate % % % % % 9.62 % 9.62 % liabilities: variable-rate debt: line of credit $ $ $ $ 951,700 $ $ $ 951,700 $ 951,700 weighted average interest rate % % % 5.66 % % % 5.66 % bridge loan $ $ 1,350,000 $ $ $ $ $ 1,350,000 $ 1,350,000 weighted average interest rate % 6.13 % % % % % 6.13 % senior notes payable $ 300,000 $ $ $ $ $ 25,000 $ 325,000 $ 317,683 weighted average interest rate 5.44 % % % % % 5.89 % 5.60 % mortgage notes payable $ $ 31,041 $ 106,066 $ 33,000 $ 8,975 $ 16,534 $ 195,616 $ 196,766 weighted average interest rate % 7.01 % 5.54 % 6.82 % 7.37 % 4.98 % 5.99 % fixed-rate debt: senior notes payable $ $ $ 206,421 $ 300,000 $ 250,000 $ 2,762,000 $ 3,518,421 $ 3,385,736 weighted average interest rate % % 4.93 % 5.95 % 6.45 % 6.16 % 6.23 % mortgage notes payable $ 67,233 $ 186,666 $ 178,468 $ 92,292 $ 89,234 $ 464,178 $ 1,078,071 $ 1,082,236 weighted average interest rate 6.16 % 5.83 % 6.91 % 6.39 % 5.92 % 5.95 % 6.03 % other debt(1) $ 108,496 $ $ $ $ $ $ 108,496 $ 108,496 weighted average interest rate % % % % % % % (1) in connection with the crp merger on october 5, 2006, we assumed non-interest bearing life care bonds at two of our ccrcs and non-interest bearing occupancy fee deposits at another of our senior housing facilities, all of which are payable to certain residents of the facilities. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market riskrisk factors 16 healthcare property types senior housing. at december 31, 2008, we had interests in 264 senior housing facilities, including 25 facilities owned by our investment management platform (1) . senior housing facilities include independent living facilities ("ilfs"), assisted living facilities ("alfs") and continuing care retirement communities ("ccrcs"), which cater to different segments of the elderly population based upon their needs. services provided by our operators or tenants in these facilities are primarily paid for by the residents directly or through private insurance and are less reliant on government reimbursement programs such as medicaid and medicare. our senior housing property types are further described below: independent living facilities. ilfs are designed to meet the needs of seniors who choose to live in an environment surrounded by their peers with services such as housekeeping, meals and activities. these residents generally do not need assistance with activities of daily living ("adl"), such as bathing, eating and dressing. however, residents have the option to contract for these services. at december 31, 2008, we had interests in 49 ilfs. assisted living facilities. alfs are licensed care facilities that provide personal care services, support and housing for those who need help with adl yet require limited medical care. the programs and services may include transportation, social activities, exercise and fitness programs, 5 table of contents beauty or barber shop access, hobby and craft activities, community excursions, meals in a dining room setting and other activities sought by residents. these facilities are often in apartment-like buildings with private residences ranging from single rooms to large apartments. certain alfs may offer higher levels of personal assistance for residents with alzheimer's disease or other forms of dementia. levels of personal assistance are based in part on local regulations. at december 31, 2008, we had interests in 200 alfs. continuing care retirement communities. ccrcs provide housing and health-related services under long-term contracts. this alternative is appealing to residents as it eliminates the need for relocating when health and medical needs change, thus allowing residents to "age in place." some ccrcs require a substantial entry or buy-in fee and most also charge monthly maintenance fees in exchange for a living unit, meals and some health services. ccrcs typically require the individual to be in relatively good health and independent upon entry. at december 31, 2008, we had interests in 15 ccrcs. our senior housing segment accounted for approximately 34%, 40% and 38% of total revenues for the years ended december 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. the following table provides information about our senior housing operator concentration for the year ended december 31, 2008: operators percentage of segment revenues percentage of total revenues sunrise senior living, inc. ("sunrise") (2) 44 % 15 % brookdale senior living inc. ("brookdale") 19 % 7 % (1) investment management platform represents the following joint ventures: (i) hcp ventures ii, (ii) hcp ventures iii, llc, (iii) hcp ventures iv, llc, and (iv) the hcp life science ventures. (2) certain of our properties are leased to tenants who have entered into management contracts with sunrise to operate the respective property on their behalf. to determine our concentration of revenues generated from properties operated by sunrise, we aggregate revenue from these tenants with revenue generated from the two properties that are leased directly to sunrise. on december 1, 2008, we transitioned an 11-property portfolio to emeritus corporation that was previously operated by sunrise. the percentage of segment revenues and total revenues for sunrise includes revenues from the transferred properties for the 11-month period preceding the transfer date. in addition to the operator concentration above, hcp ventures ii, a 35% owned joint venture, leases 25 senior housing facilities to horizon bay retirement living. during the year ended december 31, 2008, hcp ventures ii's rental and related revenues were $83.4 million. life science. at december 31, 2008, we had interests in 104 life science properties, including eight facilities owned by our investment management platform. these properties contain laboratory and office space primarily for biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, scientific research institutions, government agencies and other organizations involved in the life science industry. while these properties contain similar characteristics to commercial office buildings, they generally contain more advanced electrical, mechanical and hvac systems. the facilities generally have equipment including emergency generators, fume hoods, lab bench tops, and related amenities. in many instances life science tenants make significant investments to improve the space in addition to a landlord's improvement allowance to accommodate biology or chemistry research initiatives. life science properties are primarily configured in business park or campus settings and include multiple facilities and buildings. the business park and campus settings allow us the opportunity to provide flexible, contiguous/adjacent expansion that accommodates the growth of existing tenants in place. our properties are located in well established geographical markets known for scientific research, including san francisco, san diego and salt lake city. 6 table of contents our life science segment accounted for approximately 24%, 11% and 4% of total revenues for the years ended december 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. the following table provides information about our life science tenant concentration for the year ended december 31, 2008: tenants percentage of segment revenues percentage of total revenues genentech, inc. ("genentech") 17 % 4 % amgen, inc. 13 % 3 % medical office. at december 31, 2008, we had interests in 251 medical office buildings ("mobs"), including 63 facilities owned by our investment management platform. these facilities typically contain physicians' offices and examination rooms, and may also include pharmacies, hospital ancillary service space and outpatient services such as diagnostic centers, rehabilitation clinics and day-surgery operating rooms. while these facilities are similar to commercial office buildings, they require more plumbing, electrical and mechanical systems to accommodate multiple exam rooms that may require sinks in every room, and special equipment such as x-ray machines. our mobs are typically multi-tenant properties leased to multiple healthcare providers (hospitals and physician practices) and are primarily located on hospital campuses. approximately 83% of our mobs, based on square feet, are located on hospital campuses. our medical office segment accounted for approximately 30%, 36% and 40% of total revenues for the years ended december 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. during the year ended december 31, 2008, hca, inc. ("hca"), as our tenant, contributed 15% of our medical office segment revenues. hospital. at december 31, 2008, we had interests in 24 hospitals, including four facilities owned by our investment management platform. services provided by our operators and tenants in these facilities are paid for by private sources, third-party payors (e.g., insurance and health maintenance organizations ("hmos")), or through the medicare and medicaid programs. our hospital property types include acute care, long-term acute care, specialty and rehabilitation hospitals. our hospitals are all leased to single tenants or operators under triple-net lease structures. our hospital segment accounted for approximately 8%, 9% and 11% of total revenues for the years ended december 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. the following table provides information about our hospital operator/tenant concentration for the year ended december 31, 2008: operators/tenants percentage of segment revenues percentage of total revenues tenet healthcare corporation ("tenet"). 46 % 4 % hca 26 % 7 % (1) (1) percentage of total revenues from hca includes revenues earned from both our medical office and hospital segments. in addition to lease-related revenues, we earned $24 million of interest income during the year ended december 31, 2008 from marketable debt securities issued by hca. including interest earned from marketable debt securities, we recognized income of $95 million from hca during the year ended december 31, 2008. skilled nursing. at december 31, 2008, we had interests in 51 skilled nursing facilities ("snfs"). snfs offer restorative, rehabilitative and custodial nursing care for people not requiring the more extensive and sophisticated treatment available at hospitals. ancillary revenues and revenues from sub-acute care services are derived from providing services to residents beyond room and board and include occupational, physical, speech, respiratory and intravenous therapy, wound care, oncology treatment, brain injury care and orthopedic therapy as well as sales of pharmaceutical products and other services. certain skilled nursing facilities provide some of the foregoing services on an out-patient basis. skilled nursing services provided by our operators and tenants in these facilities are primarily paid for either 7 table of contents by private sources or through the medicare and medicaid programs. all of our snfs are leased to single tenants under triple-net lease structures. our skilled nursing segment accounted for approximately 4%, 4% and 7% of total revenues for the years ended december 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. the following table provides information about our skilled nursing operator/tenant concentration for the year ended december 31, 2008: operators/tenants percentage of segment revenues percentage of total revenues covenant care 25 % 1 % kindred healthcare, inc. 22 % 1 % formation capital 19 % 1 % in addition to our investments in assets under leases, our skilled nursing segment also includes an investment in mezzanine loans to hcr manorcare. these loans have an aggregate face value of $1.0 billion, which we purchased, at a discount of approximately $100 million, as part of the financing for the carlyle group's $6.3 billion purchase of hcr manorcare. these loans bear interest on their face amounts at a floating rate of one-month libor plus 4.0%, and mature in january 2013. for the year ended december 31, 2008, we earned approximately $84 million of interest income from these mezzanine loans. investment products properties under lease. at december 31, 2008, our investment in properties leased to third parties aggregated approximately $10 billion representing 586 properties, including 30 properties accounted for as direct financing leases ("dfls"). we primarily generate revenue by leasing properties under long-term leases. most of our rents and other earned income from leases are received under triple-net leases or leases that provide for substantial recovery of operating expenses. however, some of our medical office building ("mobs") and life science facility rents are structured under gross or modified gross leases. accordingly, for such gross or modified gross leases, we incur certain property operating expenses, such as real estate taxes, repairs and maintenance, property management fees, utilities and insurance. our ability to grow rental income from properties under lease depends, in part, on our ability to (i) increase rental income and other earned income from leases by increasing rental rates and occupancy levels, (ii) maximize tenant recoveries and (iii) control non-recoverable operating expenses. most of our leases include annual base rent escalation clauses that are either predetermined fixed increases or are a function of an inflation index. investment management. at december 31, 2008, our investment management platform aggregated $2.0 billion in investments, representing 100 properties. we co-invest in real estate properties with institutional investors through joint ventures structured as partnerships or limited liability companies. we target institutional investors with long-term investment horizons who seek to benefit from our expertise in healthcare real estate. predominantly, we retain minority interests in the joint ventures ranging from 20% to 63% and serve as the managing member. these ventures generally allow us to earn acquisition and asset management fees, and have the potential for promoted interests or incentive distributions based on performance of the joint venture. developments. at december 31, 2008, our investment in properties under development, including redevelopment, or land held for future development, aggregated $577 million. we generally commit to development projects that are at least 50% pre-leased or when we believe that market conditions will support speculative construction. we work closely with our local real estate service providers, including brokerage, property management, project management and construction management companies to 8 table of contents assist us in evaluating development proposals and completing developments. our development investments are primarily in our life science and medical office segments. mezzanine loans. at december 31, 2008, our mezzanine loans and other debt investments aggregated $1.3 billion. our mezzanine loans are generally secured by a pledge of ownership interests of an entity or entities, which directly or indirectly own properties, and are subordinate to more senior debt, including mortgages and more senior mezzanine loans. our other debt investments consist primarily of marketable debt securities issued by healthcare providers and mortgages secured by healthcare real estate or real estate interests. downreits. our downreit partnership structure enables us to acquire and hold real estate properties in an operating partnership. in connection with the formation of certain downreit partnerships, many partners contribute appreciated real estate to the downreit in exchange for downreit units that can be redeemed, or, at our election, exchanged at some future date for shares of our stock. these contributions are generally tax-deferred, so that the pre-contribution gain related to the property is not taxed to the contributing partner. however, if the contributed property is later sold by the partnership, the unamortized pre-contribution gain that exists at the date of sale is specially allocated and taxed to the contributing partners. since the formation of our first downreit partnership, we have acquired more than $1.0 billion of properties through downreit structures. portfolio summary at december 31, 2008, we managed $13.2 billion of investments owned in our owned portfolio and investment management platform. at december 31, 2008, we also owned $577 million of assets under development, including redevelopment, or land held for future development. owned portfolio as of december 31, 2008, our properties under lease and debt investments in our owned portfolio consisted of the following (square feet and dollars in thousands): 2008 segment number of properties capacity (1) investment (2) noi (3) interest income (4) senior housing 239 25,822 units $ 4,145,965 $ 337,533 $ 1,184 life science 96 6,126 sq. ft. 2,810,577 198,788 medical office 188 12,952 sq. ft. 2,125,280 173,442 hospital 20 2,620 beds 1,008,506 81,518 44,515 skilled nursing 51 6,123 beds 1,172,212 35,982 85,858 total 594 $ 11,262,540 $ 827,263 $ 131,557 see note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in this report for additional information on our business segments. (1) senior housing facilities are measured in units (e.g., studio, one or two bedroom units). life science facilities and medical office buildings are measured in square feet. hospitals and skilled nursing facilities are measured in licensed bed count. (2) investment represents (i) the carrying amount of real estate assets, including intangibles, after adding back accumulated depreciation and amortization, excluding assets held for sale and classified as discontinued operations and (ii) the carrying amount of direct financing leases and debt investments, excluding interest accretion. (3) net operating income from continuing operations ("noi") is a non-gaap supplemental financial measure used to evaluate the operating performance of real estate properties. for the reconciliation of noi to net income for 2008, refer to note 16 in our consolidated financial statements. (4) interest income represents income earned from our mezzanine loans and other debt investments, which is included in interest and other income, net in our consolidated statements of income. 9 table of contents at december 31, 2008, in addition to our investments in properties under lease and debt investments, we own $577 million in assets under development, including redevelopment, and land held for future development. investment management platform as of december 31, 2008, our investment management platform consisted of the following properties under lease (square feet and dollars in thousands): segment number of properties capacity (1) hcp's ownership interest joint venture investment (2) total revenues total operating expenses senior housing 25 5,629 units 35% $ 1,100,085 $ 83,421 $ 4 life science 8 389 sq. ft. 20 - 63% 104,182 12,022 1,993 medical office 63 3,369 sq. ft. 20 - 30% 690,652 78,226 32,189 hospital 4 n/a (3) 20% 81,373 7,920 862 total 100 $ 1,976,292 $ 181,589 $ 35,048 (1) senior housing facilities are measured in units (e.g., studio, one or two bedroom units), life science facilities and medical office buildings are measured in square feet and hospitals are measured in licensed bed count. (2) represents the joint ventures' carrying amount of real estate assets, including intangibles, after adding back accumulated depreciation and amortization. (3) information not provided by the respective operator or tenant. employees of hcp at december 31, 2008, we had 144 full-time employees, none of whom are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. taxation of hcp, inc. hcp, inc. believes that it has operated in such a manner as to qualify for taxation as a reit under sections 856 to 860 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the "code"), commencing with its taxable year ended december 31, 1985, and it intends to continue to operate in such a manner. no assurance can be given that hcp, inc. has operated or will be able to continue to operate in a manner so as to qualify or to remain so qualified. for a description of the risks associated with hcp, inc.'s reit structure and the related tax provisions governing hcp, inc., see "risk factors tax and reit-related risks" in item 1a. of this report. this summary is qualified in its entirety by the applicable code provisions, rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, and administrative and judicial interpretations thereof. if hcp, inc. qualifies for taxation as a reit, it will generally not be required to pay federal corporate income taxes on the portion of its net income that is currently distributed to stockholders. this treatment substantially eliminates the "double taxation" (i.e., taxation at the corporate and stockholder levels) that generally results from investment in a corporation. however, hcp, inc. will be required to pay federal income tax under certain circumstances. the code defines a reit as a corporation, trust or association which meets the following statutory requirements: (i) it is managed by one or more trustees or directors; (ii) its beneficial ownership is evidenced by transferable shares, or by transferable certificates of beneficial interest; (iii) it would be taxable as a domestic corporation, but for sections 856 through 860 of the code; (iv) it is neither a financial institution nor an insurance company subject to certain provisions of the code; (v) its beneficial ownership is held by 100 or more persons; (vi) during the last half of each taxable year 10 table of contents not more than 50% in value of its outstanding stock is owned, actually or constructively, by five or fewer individuals; and (vii) it meets certain other tests, described below, regarding the amount of its distributions and the nature of its income and assets. the code provides that conditions (i) to (iv), inclusive, must be met during the entire taxable year and that condition (v) must be met during at least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months, or during a proportionate part of a taxable year of less than 12 months. in addition, conditions (v) and (vi) do not apply in the first taxable year for which an election to be treated as a reit is effective. at the close of each taxable year, hcp, inc. must meet two gross income requirements. first, for each taxable year, at least 75% of hcp, inc.'s gross income (excluding gross income from "prohibited transactions" (as defined below), certain hedging transactions entered into after july 30, 2008, and certain foreign currency gains recognized after july 30, 2008) must be derived directly or indirectly from investments relating to real property, including rents from real property, or mortgages, certain mezzanine loans or from certain types of temporary investment income. second, at least 95% of hcp, inc.'s gross income for each taxable year (excluding gross income from prohibited transactions, certain hedging transactions, and certain foreign currency gains recognized after july 30, 2008) must be derived from income that qualifies under the 75% test and other dividends, interest and gain from the sale or other disposition of stock or securities. a "prohibited transaction" is a sale or other disposition of property (other than foreclosure property) held for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. under newly enacted legislation, after january 1, 2009, rents received by hcp, inc. from the lease of certain healthcare properties to its taxable reit subsidiaries (each a "trs" and collectively, "trss") may qualify as rents for purposes of the gross income requirements if the property is operated on behalf of the trs by a person that is an independent contractor and certain other requirements are met. at the close of each quarter of hcp, inc.'s taxable year, it must also satisfy four tests relating to the nature of its assets. first, at least 75% of the value of hcp, inc.'s total assets must be represented by real estate assets (including shares of stock of other reits), cash, cash items, or government securities. for purposes of this test, the term "real estate assets" generally means real property (including interests in real property and mortgages, and certain mezzanine loans) and shares in other reits, as well as any stock or debt instrument attributable to the investment of the proceeds of a stock offering or a public debt offering with a term of at least five years, but only for the one-year period beginning on the date the proceeds are received. second, not more than 25% of hcp, inc.'s total assets may be represented by securities other than those in the 75% asset class. third, of the investments included in the 25% asset class and except for certain investments in other reits, "qualified reit subsidiaries" and trss, the value of any one issuer's securities owned by hcp, inc. may not exceed 5% of the value of hcp, inc.'s total assets, and hcp, inc. may not own more than 10% of the vote or value of the securities of any one issuer. solely for purposes of the 10% value test, however, certain securities including, but not limited to, securities having specified characteristics ("straight debt"), loans to an individual or an estate, obligations to pay rents from real property and securities issued by a reit, are disregarded as securities. fourth, not more than 20% (25% for taxable years beginning on or after january 1, 2009) of the value of hcp, inc.'s total assets may be represented by securities of one or more trss. hcp, inc., directly and indirectly, owns interests in various partnerships and limited liability companies. in the case of a reit that is a partner in a partnership or a member of a limited liability company that is treated as a partnership under the code, for purposes of the reit asset and income tests, the reit will be deemed to own its proportionate share of the assets of the partnership or limited liability company and will be deemed to be entitled to its proportionate share of gross income of the partnership or limited liability company, in each case, determined in accordance with the reit's capital interest in the entity (subject to special rules related to the 10% asset test). the ownership of an interest in a partnership or limited liability company by a reit may involve special tax risks, 11 table of contents including the challenge by the internal revenue service of the allocations of income and expense items of the partnership or limited liability company, which would affect the computation of taxable income of the reit, and the status of the partnership or limited liability company as a partnership (as opposed to an association taxable as a corporation) for federal income tax purposes . hcp, inc. also owns interests in a number of subsidiaries which are intended to be treated as qualified reit subsidiaries ("qrs"). a corporation will qualify as a qualified reit subsidiary of hcp, inc. if hcp, inc. owns 100% of the outstanding stock of the corporation directly or through other disregarded entities, and hcp, inc. does not elect with the subsidiary to treat it as a "taxable reit subsidiary," (or "trs"), as described below. a qrs is not treated as a separate corporation for federal income tax purposes and all assets, liabilities and items of income, deduction and credit of such subsidiaries will be treated as the assets, liabilities and such items of hcp, inc. for purposes of the reit income and asset tests. if any partnership, limited liability company or qrs in which hcp, inc. owns an interest were treated as a corporation (other than a trs or a reit) for federal income tax purposes, hcp, inc. could fail to satisfy the reit income and asset tests described above and could therefore fail to qualify as a reit, unless certain relief provisions apply. except with respect to certain entities in which hcp, inc. owns less than a 10% interest, hcp, inc. believes that each of the partnerships, limited liability companies and subsidiaries (other than trss), in which it owns an interest will be treated for tax purposes as a partnership, disregarded entity (in the case of a 100% owned partnership or limited liability company), reit or qrs, as applicable, although no assurance can be given that the internal revenue service will not successfully challenge the status of any such entity. as of december 31, 2008, hcp, inc. and hcp life science reit, inc. ("hcp life science reit") owned interests in 13 subsidiaries which have elected to be trss. a reit may own any percentage of the voting stock and value of the securities of a corporation which jointly elects with the reit to be a trs, provided certain requirements are met. a trs generally may engage in any business, including the provision of customary or noncustomary services to tenants of its parent reit and of others, except a trs may not directly or indirectly manage or operate a lodging or healthcare facility or directly or indirectly provide to any other person (under a franchise, license or otherwise) rights to any brand name under which any lodging or health care facility is operated. a trs is treated as a regular corporation and is subject to federal income tax and applicable state income taxes at regular corporate rates. in addition, a 100% tax may be imposed on a reit if the arrangement between the reit or its tenants and its trs are not on arm's length terms and, as a result, the reit's rents or other income or the trs's deductions are overstated. in order to qualify as a reit, hcp, inc. is required to distribute dividends (other than capital gain dividends) to its stockholders in an amount at least equal to (a) the sum of (i) 90% of its "real estate investment trust taxable income" (computed without regard to the dividends paid deduction and its net capital gain) and (ii) 90% of the net income, if any (after tax), from foreclosure property, minus (b) the sum of certain items of non-cash income. such distributions must be paid, or treated as paid, in the taxable year to which they relate. at hcp, inc.'s election, a distribution will be treated as paid in a taxable year if it is declared before hcp, inc. timely files its tax return for such year and is paid on or before the first regular dividend payment after such declaration, provided such payment is made during the twelve-month period following the close of such year. to the extent that hcp, inc. does not distribute all of its net capital gain or distributes at least 90%, but less than 100%, of its "real estate investment trust taxable income," as adjusted, hcp, inc. will be required to pay tax on the undistributed amount at regular corporate tax rates. furthermore, if hcp, inc. fails to distribute during each calendar year at least the sum of (i) 85% of its ordinary income for such year, (ii) 95% of its capital gain net income for such year and (iii) any undistributed taxable income from prior periods, hcp, inc. would be required to pay a 4% excise tax on the excess of such required distributions over the amounts actually distributed. while historically hcp, inc. has satisfied the distribution requirements 12 table of contents discussed above by making cash distributions to its shareholders, a reit is permitted to satisfy these requirements by making distributions of cash or other property, including, in limited circumstances, its own stock. for distributions with respect to taxable years ending on or before december 31, 2009, recent internal revenue service guidance allows us to satisfy up to 90% of the distribution requirements discussed above through the distribution of shares of hcp, inc. common stock, if certain conditions are met. on july 27, 2007, we formed hcp life science reit, inc. ("hcp life science reit") which elected to be taxed as a reit under sections 856 through 860 of the code commencing with its initial taxable year ended december 31, 2007. we believe that hcp life science reit has operated in such a manner so as to qualify for taxation as a reit under the code commencing with its initial taxable year and hcp life science reit intends to continue to operate in such a manner. provided that hcp life science reit qualifies as a reit, hcp, inc.'s interest in hcp life science reit is treated as a qualifying real estate asset for purposes of the reit asset requirements and any dividend income or gains derived by hcp, inc. from the stock of hcp life science reit is generally treated as income that qualifies for purposes of the reit income requirements. to qualify as a reit, hcp life science reit must independently satisfy the various reit qualification requirements, including distributions of reit taxable income. if hcp life science reit were to fail to qualify as a reit, it would be treated as a regular taxable corporation and its income would be subject to federal income tax. in addition, a failure of hcp life science reit to qualify as a reit could have an adverse effect on hcp, inc.'s ability to comply with the reit asset and income requirements described above, and thus its ability to qualify as a reit. if hcp, inc. or hcp life science reit fail to qualify for taxation as a reit in any taxable year and certain relief provisions do not apply, the applicable reit will be required to pay tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on its taxable income at regular corporate rates. dividend distributions to stockholders in any year in which it fails to qualify will not be deductible by the applicable reit nor will such distributions be required to be made. unless entitled to relief under specific statutory provisions, the applicable reit will also be disqualified from taxation as a reit for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost. failure to qualify for even one year could substantially reduce distributions to stockholders and could result in us incurring substantial indebtedness (to the extent borrowings are feasible) or liquidating substantial investments in order to pay the resulting taxes. in addition to federal income taxes, hcp, inc. and hcp life science reit may be required to pay state and local taxes in various jurisdictions. hcp, inc. and hcp life science reit may also be subject to certain other taxes applicable to reits, including taxes in lieu of disqualification as a reit, on undistributed income, on income from prohibited transactions, on net income from foreclosure property and on built-in gains from the sale of certain assets acquired from c corporations in tax-free transactions (including the assets of slough estates usa inc. ("seusa") held by hcp life science reit) during a specified time period. government regulation, licensing and enforcement overview our tenants and operators are typically subject to extensive and complex federal, state and local healthcare laws and regulations relating to fraud and abuse practices, government reimbursement, licensure and certificate of need and similar laws governing the operation of healthcare facilities. these regulations are wide-ranging and can subject our tenants and operators to civil, criminal and administrative sanctions. affected tenants and operators may find it increasingly difficult to comply with this complex and evolving regulatory regime because of a relative lack of guidance in many areas as certain of our healthcare properties are subject to oversight from several government agencies and the 13 table of contents laws may vary from one jurisdiction to another. changes in laws and regulations and reimbursement enforcement activity and regulatory non-compliance by our tenants and operators can all have a significant effect on their operations and financial condition, which in turn may adversely impact us, as detailed below and set forth under "risk factors" in item 1a. we seek to mitigate the risk to us resulting from the significant healthcare regulatory risks faced by our tenants and operators by diversifying our portfolio among property types and geographical areas, diversifying our tenant and operator base to limit our exposure to any single entity, and seeking tenants and operators who are not primarily dependent on medicare or medicaid reimbursement for their revenues. as of december 31, 2008, our investments in the senior housing, life science, medical office, skilled nursing and hospital segments represented approximately 36%, 28%, 18%, 10% and 8% of our portfolio, respectively, based on investment amount. for the year ended december 31, 2008, we estimate that approximately 8% and 24% of our tenants' and operators' revenues were derived from medicare and medicaid, respectively, based on information provided by our tenants and operators. the following is a discussion of certain laws and regulations generally applicable to our operators and in certain cases, to us, as well as descriptions of some of the specific risks to which different types of our tenants and operators are subject. fraud and abuse enforcement there are various extremely complex federal and state laws and regulations governing healthcare providers' relationships and arrangements and prohibiting fraudulent and abusive practices by such providers. these laws include (i) federal and state false claims acts, which, among other things, prohibit providers from filing false claims or making false statements to receive payment from medicare, medicaid or other federal or state healthcare programs, (ii) federal and state anti-kickback and fee-splitting statutes, including the medicare and medicaid anti-kickback statute, which prohibit the payment or receipt of remuneration to induce referrals or recommendations of healthcare items or services, (iii) federal and state physician self-referral laws (commonly referred to as the "stark law"), which generally prohibit referrals by physicians to entities with which the physician or an immediate family member has a financial relationship, (iv) the federal civil monetary penalties law, which prohibits, among other things, the knowing presentation of a false or fraudulent claims for certain healthcare services and (v) federal and state privacy laws, including the privacy and security rules contained in the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1997, which provide for the privacy and security of personal health information. violations of healthcare fraud and abuse laws carry civil, criminal and administrative sanctions, including punitive sanctions, monetary penalties, imprisonment, denial of medicare and medicaid reimbursement and potential exclusion from medicare, medicaid or other federal or state healthcare programs. these laws are enforced by a variety of federal, state and local agencies and can also be enforced by private litigants through, among other things, federal and state false claims acts, which allow private litigants to bring qui tam or "whistleblower" actions. many of our operators and tenants are subject to these laws, and some of them may in the future become the subject of governmental enforcement actions if they fail to comply with applicable laws. a violation of any of these federal and state fraud and abuse laws and regulations could negatively impact our tenants' and operators' liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, which could negatively impact their ability to make payments under their agreements with us, or otherwise comply with the terms of such agreements. reimbursement sources of revenue for many of our tenants and operators include, among other sources, governmental healthcare programs, such as the federal medicare program and state medicaid programs, and non-governmental payors, such as insurance carriers and health maintenance organizations. as federal and state governments focus on healthcare reform initiatives, and as many 14 table of contents states face significant budget deficits, efforts to reduce costs by these payors will likely continue, which may result in reduced or slower growth in reimbursement for certain services provided by some of our tenants and operators. in addition, the failure of any of our tenants or operators to comply with various laws and regulations could jeopardize their certification and ability to continue to participate in federal and state healthcare programs, including the medicare and medicaid programs. healthcare licensure and certificate of need certain healthcare facilities in our portfolio are subject to extensive federal, state and local licensure, certification and inspection laws and regulations. many states require certain healthcare providers to obtain a "certificate of need," which requires prior approval for the construction, expansion and closure of certain healthcare facilities. further, various licenses and permits are required to dispense narcotics, operate pharmacies, handle radioactive materials and operate equipment. failure to comply with any of these laws could result in loss of accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension or decertification from federal and state healthcare programs, loss of license or closure of the facility. the approval process related to state certificate of need laws may impact some of our tenants' and operators' abilities to expand or change their businesses. failure to comply with these laws or to obtain required certificates of need may have an adverse effect on the operations and financial condition of the tenants and operators of properties owned by or mortgaged to us, and therefore may adversely impact us. life science facilities while certain of our life science tenants include some well-established companies, other such tenants are less established and, in some cases, may not yet have a product approved by the food and drug administration or other regulatory authorities for commercial sale. creating a new pharmaceutical product requires significant investments of time and money, in part, because of the extensive regulation of the healthcare industry; it also entails considerable risk of failure in demonstrating that the product is safe and effective and in gaining regulatory approval and market acceptance. further, even after a life science company has gained regulatory approval to market a product, the product still presents regulatory risks. such risks may include, among others, the possible later discovery of safety concerns, changes in reimbursement policies for the product, competition from new products, litigation over the validity or infringement of the underlying intellectual property, and ultimately the expiration of patent protection for the product. all these factors may have an adverse effect on the operations and financial condition of our life science tenants and therefore may adversely impact us. senior housing entrance fee communities certain of the senior housing facilities mortgaged to or owned by us are operated as entrance fee communities. generally, an entrance fee is an upfront fee or consideration paid by a resident, a portion of which may be refundable, in exchange for some form of long-term benefit. some of the entrance fee communities are subject to significant state regulatory oversight, including, for example, oversight of each facility's financial condition, establishment and monitoring of reserve requirements and other financial restrictions, the right of residents to cancel their contracts within a specified period of time, lien rights in favor of the residents, restrictions on change of ownership and similar matters. such oversight and the rights of residents within these entrance fee communities may have an adverse effect on the operations and financial condition of our tenants and operators and therefore may adversely impact us. 15 table of contents americans with disabilities act (the "ada") our properties must comply with the ada and any similar state or local laws to the extent that such properties are "public accommodations" as defined in those statutes. the ada may require removal of barriers to access by persons with disabilities in certain public areas of our properties where such removal is readily achievable. to date, we have not received any notices of noncompliance with the ada that have caused us to incur substantial capital expenditures to address ada concerns. should barriers to access by persons with disabilities be discovered at any of our properties, we may be directly or indirectly responsible for additional costs that may be required to make facilities ada-compliant. noncompliance with the ada could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. the obligation to make readily achievable accommodations pursuant to the ada is an ongoing one, and we continue to assess our properties and make modifications as appropriate in this respect. environmental matters a wide variety of federal, state and local environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations affect healthcare facility operations. these complex federal and state statutes, and their enforcement, involve myriad regulations, many of which involve strict liability on the part of the potential offender. some of these federal and state statutes may directly impact us. under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner of real property or a secured lender, such as us, may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances at, under or disposed of in connection with such property, as well as other potential costs relating to hazardous or toxic substances (including government fines and damages for injuries to persons and adjacent property). the cost of any required remediation, removal, fines or personal or property damages and the owner's or secured lender's liability therefore could exceed or impair the value of the property, and/or the assets of the owner or secured lender. in addition, the presence of such substances, or the failure to properly dispose of or remediate such substances, may adversely affect the owner's ability to sell or rent such property or to borrow using such property as collateral which, in turn, could reduce our revenues. for a description of the risks associated with environmental matters, see "risk factors" in item 1a of this report. item 1a. risk factors before deciding whether to invest in hcp, you should carefully consider the risks described below as well as the risks described elsewhere in this report, which risks are incorporated by reference into this section. the risks and uncertainties described herein are not the only ones facing us and there may be additional risks that we do not presently know of or that we currently consider not likely to have a significant impact on us. all of these risks could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. as the owner of healthcare and other real estate facilities, we are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. certain of these risks and uncertainties are associated directly with the business of owning and leasing real estate generally, but others are associated with our specific business model or other attributes of hcp. for example, as described elsewhere in this report, most of our properties are operated by and/or leased to third parties. accordingly, adverse developments with respect to these third parties may materially adversely affect us. in addition, we operate in a manner intended to allow us to qualify as a reit, which involves the application of highly technical and complex laws and regulations. we believe that the risks facing our company generally fall into the following four categories: risks related to hcp risks related to our operators and tenants 16 table of contents risks related to tax matters including reit-related risks risks related to our organizational structure risks related to hcp the recent market disruptions may materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. the global financial markets are currently undergoing pervasive and fundamental disruptions. the continuation or intensification of any such volatility may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. among other things, the capital markets have recently experienced extreme pricing volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions, all of which have exerted downward pressure on stock prices, widened credit spreads on prospective debt financing and led to unprecedented declines in the market values of u.s. and foreign stock exchanges. the recent dislocations in the debt markets have reduced the amount of capital that is available to finance real estate, which, in turn, has led to reduced property values and caused an overall slowdown of real estate transaction activity, all of which could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. the current u.s. and global economic and financial crisis has also severely strained the credit markets resulting in the bankruptcies and mergers of large financial institutions and significant investment in and control by government bodies of financial institutions to avoid further illiquidity and bank failures. at times, certain segments of the credit market have frozen with banks no longer willing to make loans. the continuation or intensification of current levels of market disruption and volatility could impact our ability to obtain new financing or refinance our existing debt as it becomes due. the recent volatility may also lead to significant uncertainty in the valuation, or in the stability of the value, of our investments and those of our joint ventures, that could result in a substantial decrease in the value of our properties and those of our joint ventures. as a result, we may not be able to recover the carrying amount of such investments and the associated goodwill, if any, which may require us to recognize an impairment charge in earnings. additionally, certain fees we generate from our joint ventures are dependent upon the value of the investments held by such joint ventures or the level of contributions we make to the property fund. if property values or our level of contributions decrease, certain fees generated by our joint ventures may also decrease. we rely on external sources of capital to fund future capital needs and if our access to such capital is limited or on unfavorable terms, we may not be able to meet commitments as they become due or make future investments necessary to grow our business. in order to qualify as a reit under the code and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax, we are generally required, among other things, to distribute to our stockholders each year at least 90% of our "real estate investment trust taxable income" (computed without regard to the dividends paid deduction and net capital gains). for distributions with respect to the taxable years ending on or before december 31, 2009, recent internal revenue service guidance allows us to satisfy up to 90% of this requirement through the distribution of shares of hcp, inc. common stock, if certain conditions are met. we may not be able to fund, from cash retained from operations, all future capital needs, including capital needs in connection with acquisitions and development activities. if we are unable to obtain needed capital at all or only on unfavorable terms from these sources, we might not be able to make the investments needed to grow our business and to meet our obligations and commitments as they mature. as a result, we rely on external sources of capital, including debt and equity financing, to fulfill our capital requirements. our access to capital depends upon a number of factors, some of which we have little or no control over, including: further weakening of the u.s. and global economies and the possibility of a prolonged recession; 17 table of contents general availability of credit and market conditions, including rising interest rates and increased borrowing cost; the market price of the shares of our equity securities; the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions; the ratings of our debt and preferred securities; our degree of financial leverage and operational flexibility; financial deterioration of our lenders that might impair their ability to meet their commitments to us or their willingness to make additional loans to us, and our inability to replace the financing commitment of any such lender on favorable terms, or at all; the stability in the market value of our properties; the value of our mezzanine loans and other debt investments; the financial performance of our operators, tenants and borrowers; issues facing the healthcare industry, including regulations and government reimbursement policies; changes in rules or practices governing our financial and sec reporting; and civil disturbances, natural disasters or acts of war. adverse changes in our credit ratings could impair our ability to obtain additional debt and preferred stock financing on favorable terms, if at all, and significantly reduce the market price of our securities, including our common stock. we currently have a credit rating of baa3 (stable) from moody's investors service ("moody's"), bbb (stable) from standard &amp; poor's ratings service ("s&amp;p") and bbb (positive) from fitch ratings ("fitch") on our senior unsecured debt securities, and ba1 (stable) from moody's, bb+ (stable) from s&amp;p and bbb- (positive) from fitch on our preferred equity securities. the credit ratings of our senior unsecured debt and preferred equity securities are based on our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position and other factors employed by the credit rating agencies in their rating analyses of us. our credit ratings can affect the amount and type of capital we can access, as well as the terms of any financings we may obtain. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings and in the event that our current credit ratings deteriorate, we would likely incur higher borrowing costs and it may be more difficult or expensive to obtain additional financing or refinance existing obligations and commitments. also, a downgrade in our credit ratings would trigger additional costs or other potentially negative consequences under our current and future credit facilities and debt instruments. because we depend on external sources of capital to fund our acquisition and development activities, adverse changes to our credit ratings could negatively impact our acquisition and development activities, future growth opportunities, financial condition and the market price of our securities. our level of indebtedness could materially adversely affect us in many ways, including reducing funds available for other business purposes and reducing our operational flexibility. our indebtedness as of december 31, 2008 was approximately $5.9 billion. we may incur additional indebtedness in the future, including in connection with the development or acquisition of assets, which may be substantial. any significant additional indebtedness could negatively affect the credit ratings of our debt and preferred equity securities and require a substantial portion of our cash 18 table of contents flow to make interest and principal payments due on our indebtedness. greater demands on our cash resources may reduce funds available to us to pay dividends, conduct development activities, make capital expenditures and acquisitions, or carry out other aspects of our business strategy. increased indebtedness can also limit our ability to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions, make us more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions and create competitive disadvantages for us compared to other companies with relatively lower debt levels. increased future debt service obligations may limit our operational flexibility, including our ability to finance or refinance our properties, contribute properties to joint ventures or sell properties as needed. further, if we are unable to meet our mortgage payments, then the encumbered properties could be foreclosed upon or transferred to the mortgagee with a consequent loss of income and asset value. a foreclosure on one or more of our properties could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay dividends on our common and preferred equity securities. covenants in our existing and future credit agreements and other debt instruments limit our operational flexibility, and a covenant breach or a default could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. the terms of our credit agreements and other indebtedness, including additional credit agreements or amendments we may enter into and other indebtedness we may incur in the future, require or will require us to comply with a number of customary financial and other covenants, such as maintaining debt service coverage, leverage ratios and tangible net worth requirements. our continued ability to incur indebtedness and operate in general is subject to compliance with these financial and other covenants, which limit our operational flexibility. for example, mortgages on our properties contain customary covenants such as those that limit or restrict our ability, without the consent of the lender, to further encumber or sell the applicable properties, or to replace the applicable tenant or operator. breaches of such covenants may result in defaults under certain mortgages on our properties, even if we satisfy our payment obligations to the respective lender. defaults under the mortgages, including certain tenant or operator bankruptcies and other lease defaults may result in cross-defaults under and acceleration of certain of our other indebtedness. covenants that limit our operational flexibility as well as defaults under our debt instruments could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. an increase in interest rates would increase our interest costs on existing variable rate debt and new debt, and could adversely impact our ability to refinance existing debt, sell assets and limit our acquisition and development activities. at december 31, 2008, we had approximately $892 million of variable interest rate indebtedness, which constitutes 15% of our overall indebtedness. this variable rate debt had a weighted average interest rate of approximately 2.57% per annum. we may incur more variable interest rate indebtedness in the future. if interest rates increase, so will our interest costs for our existing variable interest rate debt and any new debt. this increased cost could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, decrease our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt, decrease our ability to make distributions to our security holders and make the financing of any acquisition and development activity more costly. further, rising interest rates could limit our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures, or cause us to pay higher interest rates upon refinancing and increase interest expense on refinanced indebtedness. in addition, an increase in interest rates could decrease the amount third parties are willing to pay for our assets, thereby limiting our ability to reposition our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. at december 31, 2008, our exposure to variable rate indebtedness is mitigated by $1.1 billion of variable rate investments. 19 table of contents unfavorable resolution of pending and future litigation matters and disputes, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. from time to time, we may be directly involved in a number of legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims. see "legal proceedings" in part i, item 3 in this report for a discussion of certain legal proceedings in which we are involved. we may also be named as defendants in lawsuits allegedly arising out of actions of our operators and tenants in which such operators and tenants have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with their respective businesses. see "risks related to our operators and tenants our operators and tenants are faced with litigation and rising liability and insurance costs that may affect their ability to make their lease or mortgage payments ." an unfavorable resolution of pending or future litigation may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. regardless of its outcome, litigation may result in substantial costs and expenses and significantly divert the attention of management. there can be no assurance that we will be able to prevail in, or achieve a favorable settlement of, pending or future litigation. in addition, pending litigation or future litigation, government proceedings or environmental matters could lead to increased costs or interruption of our normal business operations. a small number of operators and tenants, some of whom are experiencing significant legal, financial and regulatory difficulties, account for a large percentage of our revenues. during the year ended december 31, 2008, approximately 37% of our portfolio, based on our total revenues, was operated or leased by five companies, consisting of sunrise (15%), hca (7%), brookdale (7%), genentech (4%) and tenet (4%). in addition, during the year ended december 31, 2008, we earned interest of $84 million and $24 million in connection with mezzanine loans to hcr manorcare and marketable debt securities issued by hca, respectively. certain of these companies are experiencing significant legal, financial and regulatory difficulties. among other things, sunrise has disclosed that it does not anticipate being in compliance with certain financial covenants in its bank credit facility as of march 31, 2009, which could result in an acceleration of the debt under that facility. in addition, several of these major operators and tenants have significant debt and lease obligations and have been affected by the recent economic downturn, which has led to, in some instances, a precipitous decline in their stock price. the failure or inability of any of these operators or tenants to meet their obligations to us could materially reduce our cash flow as well as our results of operations, which could in turn reduce the amount of dividends we pay, cause our stock price to decline and have other material adverse effects. see "risks related to our operators and tenants the bankruptcy, insolvency or financial deterioration of one or more of our major operators or tenants may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. " for additional information on the risks we face from a failure of one or more of our operators or tenants. we have investments in mezzanine loans, which are subject to a greater risk of loss than loans secured by the underlying real estate. at december 31, 2008, we had mezzanine loan investments with a carrying value of $918 million. our mezzanine loans generally take the form of subordinated loans secured by a pledge of ownership interests in either the entity owning the property or a pledge of the ownership interests in the entity that owns, directly or through other entities, the interest in the entities owning the properties. these types of investments involve a higher degree of risk than long-term senior mortgage loans secured by income producing real property because the investment may have a lesser likelihood of being repaid in full as a result of foreclosure by the senior lender. in the event of a bankruptcy of the entity providing the pledge of its ownership interests as security, we may not have full recourse to the assets of such entity, or the assets of the entity may not be sufficient to fully repay our mezzanine loans. if a borrower defaults on our mezzanine loans or debt senior to our loans, or in the event of a borrower 20 table of contents bankruptcy, our mezzanine loans will be satisfied only after the senior debt is paid and consistent with bankruptcy rules. as a result, we may not recover some or all of our investment. in addition, mezzanine loans may have higher loan-to-value ratios than conventional mortgage loans, resulting in less equity in the property and increasing the risk of loss of principal. if our mezzanine loans are not repaid, or are only partially repaid, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. we may be unable to successfully foreclose on the collateral securing our real estate-related loans, and even if we are successful in our foreclosure efforts, we may be unable to successfully operate or occupy the underlying real estate, which may adversely affect our ability to recover our investments. if an operator or tenant defaults under one of our mortgages or mezzanine loans, we may have to foreclose on the loan or protect our interest by acquiring title to the collateral. in some cases, as noted above, the collateral consists of the equity interests in an entity that directly or indirectly owns the applicable real property and, accordingly, we may not have full recourse to assets of that entity. in addition, if we acquire real estate as a result of a foreclosure, we may be required to make substantial improvements or repairs in order to maximize the facility's investment potential. operators, tenants or borrowers may contest enforcement of foreclosure or other remedies, seek bankruptcy protection against our exercise of enforcement or other remedies and/or bring claims for lender liability in response to actions to enforce mortgage obligations. foreclosure-related costs, high "loan-to-value" ratios or declines in the value of the facility may prevent us from realizing an amount equal to our mortgage or mezzanine loan upon foreclosure. even if we are able to successfully foreclose on the collateral securing our real estate-related loans, we may inherit properties for which we are unable to expeditiously seek tenants or operators, if at all, which would adversely affect our ability to fully recover our investment. credit enhancements to our leases may terminate or be inadequate, or the provider of a credit enhancement may be unable to fulfill its payment obligations to us, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. some of our leases have credit enhancement provisions in the form of guarantees or security deposits, for minimum rent payments payable to us. these credit enhancement provisions may terminate at either a specific time during the lease term or once the property satisfies defined operating hurdles like net operating income. these provisions may also have limits on the overall amount of the credit enhancement. after the termination of a credit enhancement, or in the event that the maximum limit of a credit enhancement is reached, we may only look to the tenant or operator to make lease payments. some of our tenants are thinly capitalized entities that rely on the results of operations generated by the properties to fund rent obligations under their lease. in the event that a credit enhancement has expired or the maximum limit has been reached, or in the event that a provider of a credit enhancement is unable to meet its payment obligations, our results of operations and cash available for distribution could be materially adversely affected if our properties are unable to generate sufficient funds from operations to meet minimum rent payments and the tenants or operators do not otherwise have the resources to make those rent payments. required regulatory approvals can delay or prohibit transfers of our healthcare facilities. transfers of healthcare facilities to successor tenants or operators may be subject to regulatory approvals, including change of ownership approvals under certificate of need laws and medicare and medicaid provider arrangements, that are not required for transfers of other types of commercial operations and other types of real estate. the replacement of any tenant or operator could be delayed by the regulatory approval process of any federal, state or local government agency necessary for the transfer of the facility or the replacement of the operator licensed to manage the facility. if we are 21 table of contents unable to find a suitable replacement tenant or operator upon favorable terms, or at all, we may take possession of a facility, which might expose us to successor liability or require us to indemnify subsequent operators to whom we might transfer the operating rights and licenses, all of which may adversely affect our revenues and operations. we may not be able to sell properties when we desire because real estate investments are relatively illiquid. real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly. in addition, some of our properties serve as collateral for our secured debt obligations and cannot be readily sold. we may not be able to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changes in the real estate market. this inability to respond to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, and in particular our ability to service our debt and pay dividends on our common and preferred stock. the real estate market is affected by many factors that are beyond our control, including: adverse changes in national and local economic and market conditions; changes in interest rates and in the availability, costs and terms of financing; leases or management agreements which are not renewed or are renewed at lower payment amounts at expiration; the exercise of purchase options by operators or tenants resulting in a reduction of our revenues; changes in laws, regulations, fiscal policies, zoning and other ordinances; the costs of complying with existing and new laws and regulations; the ongoing need for capital improvements, particularly in older structures and the need to make expenditures due to changes in governmental regulations, including the ada; environmental hazards created by prior owners or occupants, existing operators or tenants, borrowers or other persons for which we may be liable; changes in operating expenses; and acts of terrorism, civil unrest, acts of war and natural disasters, including earthquakes and floods, which may result in uninsured and underinsured losses. we cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms set by us, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. we also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property or portfolio of properties. in addition, there are provisions under the federal income tax laws applicable to reits that may limit our ability to recognize the full economic benefit from a sale of our assets. these factors and any others that would impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. real estate is a competitive business and this competition may make it difficult to identify and purchase, or develop, suitable healthcare and other facilities, to grow our operations through these activities or to successfully reinvest proceeds. we operate in a highly competitive industry. part of our business strategy is growing through acquisitions, which requires us to identify suitable candidates that meet our acquisition criteria. however, when we attempt to develop, finance or acquire properties, we face competition from other reits, investment companies, private equity and hedge fund investors, sovereign funds, healthcare operators, lenders, developers and other institutional investors, some of whom have greater resources 22 table of contents and lower costs of capital than us. increased competition makes it more challenging for us to identify and successfully capitalize on opportunities that meet our business goals. among other things, from time to time, we have cash proceeds available to us from securities offerings, asset sales, joint venture or other activities, in which competition can negatively affect our ability to reinvest these proceeds on a timely basis. if we cannot capitalize on our development pipeline, identify and purchase a sufficient quantity of healthcare facilities at favorable prices, or reinvest proceeds on a timely basis, or if we are unable to finance acquisitions on commercially favorable terms, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. because of the unique and specific improvements required for healthcare facilities, we may be required to incur substantial development and renovation costs to make certain of our properties suitable for other operators and tenants, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. healthcare facilities are typically highly customized and may not be easily adapted to non-healthcare-related uses. the improvements generally required to conform a property to healthcare use, such as upgrading electrical, gas and plumbing infrastructure, are costly and often times tenant-specific. a new or replacement operator or tenant may require different features in a property, depending on that operator's or tenant's particular operations. if a current operator or tenant is unable to pay rent and vacates a property, we may incur substantial expenditures to modify a property before we are able to secure another operator or tenant. also, if the property needs to be renovated to accommodate multiple operators or tenants, we may incur substantial expenditures before we are able to re-lease the space. these expenditures or renovations may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we face additional risks associated with property development that can render a project less profitable or not at all and, under certain circumstances, prevent completion of development activities once undertaken, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. large-scale, ground-up development of healthcare properties presents additional risks for us, including risks that: a development opportunity may be abandoned after expending significant resources resulting in the loss of deposits or failure to recover expenses already incurred; the development and construction costs of a project may exceed original estimates due to increased interest rates and higher materials, transportation, labor, leasing or other costs, which could make the completion of the development project less profitable; construction and/or permanent financing may not be available on favorable terms or at all; the project may not be completed on schedule, which can result in increases in construction costs and debt service expenses as a result of a variety of factors that are beyond our control, including: natural disasters, labor conditions, material shortages, regulatory hurdles, civil unrest and acts of war; and occupancy rates and rents at a newly completed property may not meet expected levels and could be insufficient to make the property profitable. properties developed or acquired for development likely generate little or no cash flow from the date of acquisition through the date of completion of development. in addition, new development activities, regardless of whether or not they are ultimately successful, may require a substantial portion of our management's time and attention. 23 table of contents these risks could result in substantial unanticipated delays or expenses and, under certain circumstances, could prevent completion of development activities once undertaken, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, and thus our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to stockholders. our use of joint ventures may limit our flexibility with jointly owned investments and could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we intend to develop and/or acquire properties in joint ventures with other persons or entities when circumstances warrant the use of these structures. our participation in joint ventures is subject to risks that: we could experience an impasse on certain decisions because we do not have sole decision-making authority, which could require us to expend additional resources on resolving such impasses or potential disputes; our joint venture partners could have investment goals that are not consistent with our investment objectives, including the timing, terms and strategies for any investments; our joint venture partners might become bankrupt, fail to fund their share of required capital contributions or fail to fulfill their obligations as a joint venture partner, which may require us to infuse our own capital into the venture on behalf of the partner despite other competing uses for such capital; and our joint venture partners may have competing interests in our markets that could create conflict of interest issues. from time to time, we acquire other companies and need to integrate them into our existing business. if we are unable to successfully integrate the operations of acquired companies or they fail to perform as expected, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. acquisitions require the integration of companies that have previously operated independently. successful integration of the operations of these companies depends primarily on our ability to consolidate operations, systems, procedures, properties and personnel and to eliminate redundancies and costs. we cannot assure you that we will be able to integrate the operations of the companies that we have acquired, or may acquire in the future, without encountering difficulties. potential difficulties associated with acquisitions include the loss of key employees, the disruption of our ongoing business or that of the acquired entity, possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies and the assumption of unexpected liabilities. estimated cost savings in connection with acquisitions are typically projected to come from various areas that our management identifies through the due diligence and integration planning process; yet, our target companies and their properties may fail to perform as expected. inaccurate assumptions regarding future rental or occupancy rates could result in overly optimistic estimates of future revenues. similarly, we may underestimate future operating expenses or the costs necessary to bring properties up to standards established for their intended use or market position. if we have difficulties with any of these areas, or if we later discover additional liabilities or experience unforeseen costs relating to our acquired companies, we might not achieve the economic benefits we expect from our acquisitions, and this may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. pursuant to the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, we are required to provide a report by management on internal control over financial reporting, including management's assessment of the effectiveness of 24 table of contents such control. changes to our business will necessitate ongoing changes to our internal control systems and processes. internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely harmed, we could fail to meet our reporting obligations and there could be a material adverse effect on our stock price. loss of our key personnel could temporarily disrupt our operations and adversely affect us. we are dependent on the efforts of our executive officers. although our chief executive officer has an employment agreement with us, we cannot assure you that he will remain employed with us. the loss or limited availability of the services of our chief executive officer or any of our executive officers, or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could, at least temporarily, have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and be negatively perceived in the capital markets. we may experience uninsured or underinsured losses, which could result in the loss of all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property or decrease anticipated future revenues. we maintain comprehensive insurance coverage on our properties with terms, conditions, limits and deductibles that we believe are adequate and appropriate given the relative risk and costs of such coverage. however, a large number of our properties are located in areas exposed to earthquake, windstorm and flood and may be subject to other losses. in particular, our life science portfolio is concentrated in areas known to be subject to earthquake activity. while we purchase insurance for earthquake, windstorm and flood that we believe is adequate in light of current industry practice and analysis prepared by outside consultants, there is no assurance that such insurance will fully cover such losses. these losses can decrease our anticipated revenues from a property and result in the loss of all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property. the insurance market for such exposures can be very volatile and we may be unable to purchase the limits and terms we desire on a commercially reasonable basis in the future. in addition, there are certain exposures where insurance is not purchased as we do not believe it is economically feasible to do so. environmental compliance costs and liabilities associated with our real estate related investments may materially impair the value of those investments. under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, as a current or previous owner of real estate, we may be required to investigate and clean up certain hazardous substances released at a property, and may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage and for investigation and cleanup costs incurred by the third parties in connection with the contamination. in addition, some environmental laws create a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and the costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. although we (i) currently carry environmental insurance on our properties in an amount and subject to deductibles that we believe are commercially reasonable, and (ii) generally require our operators and tenants to undertake to indemnify us for environmental liabilities they cause, such liabilities could exceed the amount of our insurance, the financial ability of the tenant or operator to indemnify us or the value of the contaminated property. the presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. as the owner of a site, we may also be liable under common law to third parties for 25 table of contents damages and injuries resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the site. we may also experience environmental liabilities arising from conditions not known to us. risks related to our operators and tenants the bankruptcy, insolvency or financial deterioration of one or more of our major operators or tenants may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we lease our properties directly to operators in most cases, and in certain other cases, we lease to third-party tenants who enter into long-term management agreements with operators to manage the properties. although our leases, financing arrangements and other agreements with our tenants and operators generally provide us the right under specified circumstances to terminate a lease, evict an operator or tenant, or demand immediate repayment of certain obligations to us, the bankruptcy laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization that may render certain of these remedies unenforceable, or at the least, delay our ability to pursue such remedies. for example, we cannot evict a tenant or operator solely because of its bankruptcy filing. a debtor has the right to assume, or to assume and assign to a third party, or reject its unexpired contracts in a bankruptcy proceeding. if a debtor were to reject its leases with us, our claim against the debtor for unpaid and future rents would be limited by the statutory cap set forth in the u.s. bankruptcy code, which may be substantially less than the remaining rent actually owed under the lease. in addition, the inability of our tenants or operators to make payments or comply with certain other lease obligations may affect our compliance with certain covenants contained in the mortgages on the properties leased or managed by such tenants and operators. moreover, certain tenant or operator bankruptcies or other lease defaults may result in defaults under the mortgages on the relevant properties and cross-defaults under and acceleration of our other indebtedness. although we believe that we would be able to secure amendments under the applicable agreements if a default as described above occurs, such default may potentially result in less favorable borrowing terms than currently available, delays in the availability of funding or other material adverse consequences. many of our operating leases also contain non-contingent rent escalators for which we recognize income on a straight-line basis over the lease term. this method results in rental income in the early years of a lease being higher than actual cash received, creating a straight-line rent receivable asset included in the caption "other assets, net" on our consolidated balance sheets. at some point during the lease, depending on its terms, the cash rent payments eventually exceed the straight-line rent which results in the straight-line rent receivable asset decreasing to zero over the remainder of the lease term. we assess the collectibility of the straight-line rent that is expected to be collected in a future period, and, depending on circumstances, we may provide a reserve against the previously recognized straight-line rent receivable asset for a portion, up to its full value, that we estimate may not be recoverable. in addition, upon acquisition of a leased property that we account for as an operating lease, we may record lease-related intangible assets, to the extent the purchase price for the asset exceeds its fair market value. the balance of straight-line rent receivable at december 31, 2008, net of allowances was $112 million. we had approximately $465 million of lease-related intangible assets, net of amortization, and $231 million of lease-related intangible liabilities, net of amortization, associated with our operating leases at december 31, 2008. to the extent any of the operators or tenants for our properties, for the reasons discussed above, become unable to pay amounts due, we may be required to write down the straight-line rents receivable or lease intangibles or may impair the related carrying value of leased properties. the current u.s. housing and strained credit markets may adversely affect our operators' and tenants' ability to increase or maintain occupancy levels at, and rental income from, our senior housing facilities. our tenants and operators may have relatively flat or declining occupancy levels in the near-term due to falling home prices, declining incomes, stagnant home sales and other economic factors. seniors 26 table of contents may choose to postpone their plans to move into senior housing facilities rather than sell their homes at a loss, or for a profit below their expectations. moreover, tightening lending standards and the strained credit market have made it more difficult for potential buyers to obtain mortgage financing, all of which have contributed to the declining home sales. in addition, the senior housing segment may experience a decline in occupancy associated with private pay residents choosing to move out of the facilities to be cared for at home by relatives due to the weakening economy. a material decline in our tenants' and operators' occupancy levels and revenues may make it more difficult for them to meet their financial obligations to us, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. operators and tenants that fail to comply with the requirements of governmental reimbursement programs such as medicare or medicaid, licensing and certification requirements, fraud and abuse regulations or new legislative developments may cease to operate or be unable to meet their financial and contractual obligations to us. our operators and tenants are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations that are subject to frequent and substantial changes (sometimes applied retroactively) resulting from legislation, adoption of rules and regulations, and administrative and judicial interpretations of existing law. the ultimate timing or effect of these changes cannot be predicted. these changes may have a dramatic effect on our operators' and tenants' costs of doing business and on the amount of reimbursement by both government and other third-party payors. the failure of any of our operators or tenants to comply with these laws, requirements and regulations could adversely affect their ability to meet their financial and contractual obligations to us. regulations that affect our operators and tenants include the following: fraud and abuse laws and regulations. there are various extremely complex federal and state laws and regulations governing healthcare providers' relationships and arrangements and prohibiting fraudulent and abusive practices by such providers. these laws include (i) federal and state false claims acts, which, among other things, prohibit providers from filing false claims or making false statements to receive payment from medicare, medicaid or other federal or state healthcare programs, (ii) federal and state anti-kickback and fee-splitting statutes, including the medicare and medicaid anti-kickback statute, which prohibit the payment or receipt of remuneration to induce referrals or recommendations of healthcare items or services, (iii) federal and state physician self-referral laws, including the stark law, which generally prohibit referrals by physicians to entities with which the physician or an immediate family member has a financial relationship, (iv) the federal civil monetary penalties law, which prohibits, among other things, the knowing presentation of a false or fraudulent claims for certain healthcare services and (v) federal and state privacy laws, including the privacy and security rules contained in the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1997, which provide for the privacy and security of personal health information. furthermore, violations of healthcare fraud and abuse laws can carry substantial civil, criminal, or administrative sanctions, including potential exclusion or debarment from medicare, medicaid or other federal or state health care programs. these laws are enforced by a variety of federal, state and local agencies and can also be enforced by private litigants through, among other things, federal and state false claims acts, which allow private litigants to bring qui tam or "whistleblower" actions. medicare and medicaid. during 2008, our skilled nursing segment accounted for approximately 4% of our revenues. a portion of our skilled nursing operators' revenues is derived from governmentally-funded reimbursement programs, primarily medicare and medicaid, and are consequently subject to the potential adverse effects of decreased reimbursement rates in these programs. as federal and state governments focus on healthcare reform initiatives, and as many 27 table of contents states face significant budget deficits, efforts to reduce costs by these payors will likely continue, which may result in reduced or slower growth in reimbursement for certain services provided by some of our tenants and operators. in addition, the failure of any of our tenants or operators to comply with various laws and regulations could jeopardize their certification and ability to continue to participate in federal and state healthcare programs, including the medicare and medicaid programs. exclusion from the medicare and medicaid programs could cause the revenues of our operators and borrowers to decline, potentially jeopardizing their ability to meet their obligations to us causing the value of our affected properties or investments to decline. state licensing and medicare and medicaid laws also require operators of nursing homes and alfs to comply with extensive standards governing operations. federal and state agencies administering those laws regularly inspect such facilities and investigate complaints. our operators, borrowers and their managers receive notices of potential sanctions and remedies from time to time, and such sanctions have been imposed from time to time on facilities operated by them. if they are unable to cure deficiencies, sanctions may be imposed that reduce our operators' and borrowers' revenues or cause them to cease operations, thereby potentially jeopardizing their ability to meet their obligations to us. licensing and certification. certain healthcare facilities in our portfolio are subject to extensive federal, state, and local licensure, certification, and inspection laws and regulations. these facilities are audited periodically by federal, state, and local authorities to confirm compliance. further, various licenses and permits are required to dispense narcotics, operate pharmacies, handle radioactive materials, and operate equipment. finally, many states require certain healthcare providers to obtain a "certificate of need" prior to the construction, expansion, or closure of certain healthcare facilities. our skilled nursing facilities in particular tend to require certificates of need prior to the addition or construction of new beds, the addition of services, or certain capital expenditures. some of our facilities may be unable to satisfy current and future certificate of need requirements and may for this reason be unable to continue operating in the future. in such event, our revenues from those facilities could be reduced or eliminated for an extended period of time or permanently. furthermore, failure to comply with any of these laws could result in loss of accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension or decertification from federal and state healthcare programs, loss of license or closure of the facility. legislative and regulatory developments. each year, legislative proposals are introduced or proposed in congress and in some state legislatures that would affect major changes in the healthcare system, either nationally or at the state level. we cannot accurately predict whether any proposals will be adopted or, if adopted, what effect, if any, these proposals would have on our operators and tenants and, thus, our business. increased competition as well as increased operating costs have resulted in lower net revenues for some of our operators and tenants and may affect their ability to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us. the healthcare industry is highly competitive and can become more competitive in the future. the occupancy levels at, and rental income from, our facilities is dependent on the ability of our operators and tenants to compete with entities that have substantial capital resources. these entities compete with other operators and tenants on a number of different levels, including: the quality of care provided, reputation, the physical appearance of a facility, price, the range of services offered, family preference, alternatives for healthcare delivery, the supply of competing properties, physicians, staff, referral sources, location, and the size and demographics of the population in the surrounding area. private, federal and state payment programs and the effect of laws and regulations may also have a significant influence on the profitability of our tenants and operators. our operators and tenants also 28 table of contents compete with numerous other companies providing similar healthcare services or alternatives such as home health agencies, life care at home, community-based service programs, retirement communities and convalescent centers. such competition, which has intensified due to overbuilding in some segments in which we invest, has caused the fill-up rate of newly constructed buildings to slow and the monthly rate that many newly built and previously existing facilities were able to obtain for their services to decrease. we cannot be certain that the operators and tenants of all of our facilities will be able to achieve occupancy and rate levels that will enable them to meet all of their obligations to us. further, many competing companies may have resources and attributes that are superior to those of our operators and tenants. thus, our operators and tenants may encounter increased competition in the future that could limit their ability to attract residents or expand their businesses which could materially adversely affect their ability meet their financial and other contractual obligation to us, potentially decreasing our revenues and increasing our collection and dispute costs. our operators and tenants may not procure the necessary insurance to adequately insure against losses. our leases generally require our tenants and operators to secure and maintain comprehensive liability and property insurance that covers us, as well as the tenants and operators. some types of losses may not be adequately insured by our tenants and operators. should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could incur liability or lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenues from the property. in such an event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. we continually review the insurance maintained by our tenants and operators. however, we cannot assure you that material uninsured losses, or losses in excess of insurance proceeds, will not occur in the future. our operators and tenants are faced with litigation and rising liability and insurance costs that may affect their ability to make their lease or mortgage payments. in some states, advocacy groups have been created to monitor the quality of care at healthcare facilities and these groups have brought litigation against the operators and tenants of such facilities. also, in several instances, private litigation by patients has succeeded in winning very large damage awards for alleged abuses. the effect of this litigation and potential litigation has been to materially increase the costs incurred by our operators and tenants for monitoring and reporting quality of care compliance. in addition, their cost of liability and medical malpractice insurance can be very significant and may increase so long as the present healthcare litigation environment continues. cost increases could cause our operators to be unable to make their lease or mortgage payments or fail to purchase the appropriate liability and malpractice insurance, potentially decreasing our revenues and increasing our collection and litigation costs. moreover, to the extent we are required to take back the affected facilities from our operators and tenants, our revenues from those facilities could be reduced or eliminated for an extended period of time. in addition, as a result of our ownership of healthcare facilities, we may be named as a defendant in lawsuits allegedly arising from the actions of our operators or tenants, which may require unanticipated expenditures on our part. our tenants in the life science industry face high levels of regulation, expense and uncertainty that may adversely affect their ability to make payments to us and, consequently, materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. life science tenants, particularly those involved in developing and marketing pharmaceutical products, are subject to certain unique risks, as follows: some of our tenants require significant outlays of funds for the research, development and clinical testing of their products and technologies. if private investors, the government or other 29 table of contents sources of funding are unavailable to support such activities, a tenant's business may be adversely affected or fail. the research, development, clinical testing, manufacture and marketing of some of our tenants' products require federal, state and foreign regulatory approvals. the approval process is typically long, expensive and uncertain. even if our tenants have sufficient funds to seek approvals, one or all of their products may fail to obtain the required regulatory approvals on a timely basis or at all. furthermore, some tenants may only have a small number of products under development. if one product fails to receive the required approvals at any stage of development, it could significantly adversely affect our tenant's entire business and its ability to make payments to us. even after a life science tenant gains regulatory approval and market acceptance, the product still presents regulatory and liability risks. such risks may include, among others, the possible later discovery of safety concerns, competition from new products, and ultimately the expiration of patent protection for the product. these factors may have an adverse effect on the operations and financial condition of our life science tenants and therefore may adversely impact us. our tenants with marketable products may be adversely affected by healthcare reform efforts and the reimbursement policies of government or private healthcare payors. our tenants may be unable to adequately protect their intellectual property under patent, copyright or trade secret laws. failure to do so could jeopardize their ability to profit from their efforts and to protect their products from competition. we cannot assure you that our life science tenants will be successful in their businesses. if our tenants' businesses are adversely affected, they may have difficulty making payments to us, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. tax and reit-related risks loss of hcp, inc.'s tax status as a reit would substantially reduce our available funds and would have material adverse consequences to us. hcp, inc. currently operates and has operated commencing with its taxable year ended december 31, 1985 in a manner that is intended to allow it to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes under the code. in addition, as described below, we own the stock of hcp life science reit which elected to be treated as a reit commencing with its initial taxable year ended december 31, 2007. qualification as a reit involves the application of highly technical and complex code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect the ability of hcp, inc. and hcp life science reit to qualify as reits. if hcp life science reit were to fail to qualify as a reit, hcp, inc. also would fail to qualify as a reit unless hcp, inc. (or hcp life science reit) could make use of certain relief provisions provided under the code. to qualify as reits, hcp, inc. and hcp life science reit must each satisfy a number of organizational, operational, stockholder ownership, dividend distribution, asset, income and other requirements. for example, to qualify as a reit, at least 95% of hcp, inc.'s gross income in any year must be derived from qualifying sources, and hcp, inc. must make distributions to its stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of its reit taxable income, excluding net capital gains. in addition, new legislation, treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may adversely affect our investors if such future events affected hcp, inc.'s ability to qualify as a reit for tax purposes. although we believe that hcp, inc. and hcp life science reit have been organized and have operated in such manner, we can give no assurance that hcp, inc. or hcp life science reit have qualified or will continue to qualify as a reit for tax purposes. 30 table of contents if hcp, inc. loses its reit status, we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available to make payments of principal and interest on the debt securities we issue and to make distributions to stockholders. if hcp, inc. fails to qualify as a reit: it would not be allowed an income tax deduction for dividends distributed to stockholders and would be subject to federal and state income tax at regular corporate rates or alternative minimum tax rates; it could also be subject to increased local income taxes; and unless hcp, inc. is entitled to relief under statutory provisions, it could not elect to be subject to tax as a reit for four taxable years following the year for which it was disqualified. in addition, if hcp, inc. fails to qualify as a reit, it would not be required to make distributions to stockholders; however, all distributions to stockholders would be subject to tax as qualifying corporate dividends to the extent of hcp, inc.'s current and accumulated earnings and profits. as a result of all these factors, hcp, inc.'s failure to qualify as a reit also could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and could materially adversely affect the value of our common stock. certain property transfers may generate prohibited transaction income, resulting in a penalty tax on gain attributable to the transaction. from time to time, we may transfer or otherwise dispose of some of our properties. under the code, any gain resulting from transfers of properties that we hold as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business would be treated as income from a prohibited transaction subject to a 100% penalty tax. since we acquire properties for investment purposes, we do not believe that our occasional transfers or disposals of property are properly treated as prohibited transactions. however, whether property is held for investment purposes is a question of fact that depends on all the facts and circumstances surrounding the particular transaction. the internal revenue service may contend that certain transfers or disposals of properties by us are prohibited transactions. while we believe that the internal revenue service would not prevail in any such dispute, if the internal revenue service were to argue successfully that a transfer or disposition of property constituted a prohibited transaction, then we would be required to pay a 100% penalty tax on any gain from the prohibited transaction. in addition, income from a prohibited transaction might adversely affect our ability to satisfy the income tests for qualification as a reit for federal income tax purposes. to maintain our reit status, we may be forced to borrow funds on a short-term basis during unfavorable market conditions. to qualify as a reit, each year we must distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our "real estate investment trust taxable income" (computed without regard to our dividends paid deduction and our net capital gain). if we distribute less than 100% of our reit taxable income in any year, we will be subject to regular corporate income taxes. in addition, we will be subject to a 4% excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions paid by us in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. for distributions with respect to taxable years ending on or before december 31, 2009, recent internal revenue service guidance allows us to satisfy up to 90% of these requirements through the distribution of shares of hcp, inc. common stock, if certain conditions are met. to maintain our reit status and avoid the payment of income and excise taxes, we may need to borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the reit distribution requirements even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings. these short-term borrowing needs could result from differences in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for federal income tax 31 table of contents purposes, or the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt principal payments. as a result of the acquisition of seusa, hcp life science reit may have inherited tax liabilities and attributes from seusa. hcp life science reit is the successor to the tax attributes, including tax basis, and earnings and profits, if any, of seusa. if hcp life science reit recognizes gain on the disposition of any properties formerly owned by seusa during the ten-year period beginning on the date on which it acquired the seusa stock, it will be required to pay tax at the highest regular corporate tax rate on such gain to the extent of the excess of (a) the fair market value of the asset over (b) its adjusted basis in the asset, in each case determined as of the date on which it acquired the seusa stock. any taxes paid by hcp life science reit would reduce the amount available for distribution by hcp life science reit to us. as a result of the crp merger and the crc merger, we may have inherited tax liabilities and attributes from crp and crc. in connection with the crp merger, crp's reit counsel rendered an opinion to us, dated as of the closing date of the merger, substantially to the effect that on the basis of the facts, representations and assumptions set forth or referred to in such opinions, crp qualified as a reit under the code for the taxable years ending december 31, 1999 through the closing date of the merger. if, however, contrary to the opinion of crp's reit counsel, crp failed to qualify as a reit for any of its taxable years, it would be required to pay federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on its taxable income at regular corporate rates. because the crp merger was treated for income tax purposes as if crp sold all of its assets in a taxable transaction to hcp, inc., if crp did not qualify as a reit for the taxable year of the merger, it would be subject to tax on the excess of the fair market value of its assets over their adjusted tax basis. as a successor in interest to crp, hcp, inc. would be required to pay this tax. as a result of the crc merger, hcp, inc. succeeded to the assets and the liabilities of crc, including any liabilities for unpaid taxes and any tax liabilities created in connection with the crc merger. at the closing of the crc merger, we received an opinion of our counsel substantially to the effect that on the basis of the facts, representations and assumptions set forth or referred to in such opinions, for federal income tax purposes the crc merger qualified as a reorganization within the meaning of section 368(a) of the code. if, however, contrary to the opinion of our counsel, the crc merger did not qualify as a reorganization within the meaning of section 368(a) of the code, the crc merger would have been treated as a sale of crc's assets to hcp, inc. in a taxable transaction, and crc would have recognized taxable gain. in such a case, as crc's successor-in-interest, hcp, inc. would be required to pay the tax on any such gain. as a result of the crc merger and the acquisition of seusa, hcp, inc. and/or our subsidiary, hcp life science reit, may be required to distribute earnings and profits. hcp, inc. succeeded to the tax attributes, including the earnings and profits of crc (assuming the crc merger qualified as reorganizations under the code). similarly, hcp life science reit succeeded to the tax attributes, including the earnings and profits of seusa. to qualify as a reit, hcp, inc. and hcp life science reit must have distributed any non-reit earnings and profits by the close of the taxable year in which each of these transactions occurred. any adjustments to the income of crc or seusa for taxable years ending on or before the closing date of the applicable transactions, including as a result of an examination of the tax returns of either company by the internal revenue service, could affect the calculation of such company's earnings and profits. if the internal revenue service were to determine that hcp, inc. or hcp life science reit acquired 32 table of contents non-reit earnings and profits from one or more of these predecessor entities that hcp, inc. or hcp life science reit failed to distribute prior to the end of the taxable year in which the applicable transaction occurred, hcp, inc. and hcp life science reit could avoid disqualification as a reit by paying a "deficiency dividend." under these procedures, hcp, inc. or hcp life science reit generally would be required to distribute any such non-reit earnings and profits to its respective stockholders within 90 days of the determination and pay a statutory interest charge at a specified rate to the internal revenue service. such a distribution would be in addition to the distribution of reit taxable income necessary to satisfy the reit distribution requirement and may require that hcp, inc. or hcp life science reit, as applicable, borrow funds to make the distribution even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for borrowings. in addition, payment of the statutory interest charge could materially adversely affect the cash flow of the applicable reit. risks related to our organizational structure our charter contains ownership limits with respect to our common stock and other classes of capital stock. our charter, subject to certain exceptions, contains restrictions on the ownership and transfer of our common stock and preferred stock that are intended to assist us in preserving our qualification as a reit. under our charter, subject to certain exceptions, no person or entity may own, actually or constructively, more than 9.8% (by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the outstanding shares of our common or preferred stock. additionally, our charter has a 9.9% ownership limitation on the company's voting shares, which may include common stock or other classes of capital stock. our board of directors, in its sole discretion, may exempt a proposed transferee from either ownership limit. the ownership limits may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. certain provisions of maryland law and our charter and bylaws could hinder, delay or prevent a change in control transaction, even if the transaction involves a premium price for our common stock or our stockholders believe such transaction to be otherwise in their best interests. certain provisions of maryland law, our charter and our bylaws have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing transactions that involve an actual or threatened change in control, even if these transactions involve a premium price for our common stock or our stockholders believe such transaction to be otherwise in their best interests. these provisions include the following: removal of directors. subject to the rights of one or more classes or series of preferred stock to elect one or more directors, our charter provides that a director may only be removed by the affirmative vote or written consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares or by a unanimous vote of all other members of the board of directors. stockholder requested special meetings. our bylaws only permit our stockholders to call a special meeting upon the written request of the stockholders holding, in the aggregate, not less than 50% of the outstanding shares entitled to vote on the business proposed to be transacted at such meeting. advance notice provisions for stockholder nominations and proposals. our bylaws do not permit stockholders to nominate persons for election as directors at, or to bring other business before, any meeting of stockholders unless we are notified in a timely manner, in writing, prior to the meeting. preferred stock. under our charter, our board of directors has authority to issue preferred stock from time to time in one or more series and to establish the terms, preferences and rights of any such series of preferred stock, all without the approval of our stockholders. 33 table of contents duties of directors with respect to unsolicited takeovers. maryland law provides protection for maryland corporations against unsolicited takeovers by limiting, among other things, the duties of the directors in unsolicited takeover situations. the duties of directors of maryland corporations do not require them to (a) accept, recommend or respond to any proposal by a person seeking to acquire control of the corporation, (b) make a determination under the maryland business combination act or the maryland control share acquisition act, or (c) act or fail to act solely because of the effect that the act or failure to act may have on an acquisition or potential acquisition of control of the corporation or the amount or type of consideration that may be offered or paid to the stockholders in an acquisition. moreover, an act of a director of a maryland corporation relating to or affecting an acquisition or potential acquisition of control is not subject to any higher duty or greater scrutiny than is applied to any other act of a director. maryland law also contains a statutory presumption that an act of a director of a maryland corporation satisfies the applicable standards of conduct for directors under maryland law. unsolicited takeovers. under maryland law, a maryland corporation with a class of equity securities registered under the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, and at least three independent directors may elect to be subject to certain statutory provisions relating to unsolicited takeovers which, among other things, would automatically classify the board of directors into three classes with staggered terms of three years each and vest in the board of directors the exclusive right to determine the number of directors and the exclusive right, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors, to fill vacancies on the board of directors, even if the remaining directors do not constitute a quorum. these statutory provisions relating to unsolicited takeovers also provide that any director elected to fill a vacancy shall hold office for the remainder of the full term of the class of directors in which the vacancy occurred, rather than the next annual meeting of directors as would otherwise be the case, and until the director's successor is elected and qualified. an election to be subject to any or all of the foregoing statutory provisions may be made in our charter or bylaws, or by resolution of our board of directors without stockholder approval. any such statutory provision to which we elect to be subject will apply even if other provisions of maryland law or our charter or bylaws provide to the contrary. neither our charter nor our bylaws provides that we are subject to any of the foregoing statutory provisions relating to unsolicited takeovers. however, our board of directors could adopt a resolution, without stockholder approval, to elect to become subject to some or all of these statutory provisions. if we made an election to be subject to such statutory provisions and our board of directors was divided into three classes with staggered terms of office of three years each, the classification and staggered terms of office of our directors would make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our board of directors since at least two annual meetings of stockholders, instead of one, generally would be required to effect a change in the majority of our board of directors. maryland business combination act. the maryland business combination act provides that, unless exempted, a maryland corporation may not engage in business combinations, including mergers, dispositions of 10% or more of its assets, issuances of shares of stock and other specified transactions, with an "interested stockholder" or an affiliate of an interested stockholder for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder became an interested stockholder, and thereafter unless specified criteria are met. an interested stockholder is generally a person owning or controlling, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting power of the outstanding stock of a maryland corporation. unless our board of directors takes action to exempt us, generally or with respect to certain transactions, from this statute in the future, the maryland business combination act will be applicable to business combinations between us and other persons. in addition to the restrictions on business combinations provided under maryland law, our charter also contains restrictions on business 34 table of contents combinations. our charter requires that, except in some circumstances, "business combinations" between us and a "related person," including a beneficial holder of 10% or more of our outstanding voting stock, be approved by the affirmative vote of at least 90% of our outstanding voting shares. maryland control share acquisition act. maryland law provides that "control shares" of a corporation acquired in a "control share acquisition" shall have no voting rights except to the extent approved by a vote of two-thirds of the votes eligible to be cast on the matter under the maryland control share acquisition act. "control shares" means shares of stock that, if aggregated with all other shares of stock previously acquired by the acquiror, would entitle the acquiror to exercise voting power in electing directors within one of the following ranges of the voting power: one-tenth or more but less than one-third, one-third or more but less than a majority, or a majority or more of all voting power. a "control share acquisition" means the acquisition of control shares, subject to certain exceptions. if voting rights or control shares acquired in a control share acquisition are not approved at a stockholder's meeting, then subject to certain conditions and limitations, the issuer may redeem any or all of the control shares for fair value. if voting rights of such control shares are approved at a stockholder's meeting and the acquiror becomes entitled to vote a majority of the shares of stock entitled to vote, all other stockholders may exercise appraisal rights. if any of our shares are control shares acquired in a control share acquisition, they will be subject to the maryland control share acquisition act unless our bylaws are amended in the future to exempt the acquisition of control shares generally or with respect to certain transactions. our issuance of additional shares of common or preferred stock, warrants or debt securities may dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders and reduce the market price for our shares. as of december 31, 2008, we had 253.6 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding. we cannot predict the effect, if any, that potential future sales of our common or preferred stock, warrants or debt securities, or the availability of our securities for future sale, will have on the market price of our outstanding securities, including our common stock. sales of substantial amounts of our common or preferred stock, warrants or debt securities convertible into, or exercisable or exchangeable for, common stock in the public market or the perception that such sales might occur could reduce the market price of our common stock. the sales of any such securities could also dilute the interests of existing common stockholders and may cause a decrease in the market price of our common stock. additionally, we maintain equity incentive plans for our employees. we have historically made grants of stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units to our employees under such plans, and we expect to continue to do so. as of december 31, 2008, there were options to purchase approximately 5.1 million shares of our common stock outstanding of which 2.0 million shares are exercisable, approximately 380,000 unvested shares of restricted stock issued and outstanding and approximately 864,000 unvested restricted stock units issued and outstanding under our equity incentive plans. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 66 interest expense. interest expense decreased $7.1 million, to $348.4 million, for the year ended december 31, 2008. the decrease was primarily due to: (i) a decrease of $17 million related to the average outstanding balance under our bridge loan and a decline in libor, (ii) an increase of $15 million of capitalized interest related to an increase in assets under development in our life science 55 table of contents segment, (iii) a decrease of $10 million resulting from the repayment of $300 million senior unsecured floating rate notes in september 2008, and (iv) a charge of $6 million related to the write-off of unamortized loan fees associated with our previous revolving line of credit facility that was terminated in 2007. the decrease in interest expense was partially offset by: (i) an increase of $34 million of interest expense from the issuance of $1.1 billion of senior unsecured notes during 2007 and (ii) an increase of $6 million related to the average outstanding balances under our line of credit and term loan. our exposure to expense fluctuations related to our variable rate indebtedness is mitigated by our variable rate investments. for a more detailed discussion of our interest rate risk, see "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" in item 7a. the table below sets forth information with respect to our debt, excluding premiums and discounts (dollars in thousands): as of december 31, 2008 2007 balance: fixed rate $ 5,059,910 $ 4,704,988 variable rate 892,431 2,822,316 total $ 5,952,341 $ 7,527,304 percent of total debt: fixed rate 85 % 63 % variable rate 15 37 total 100 % 100 % weighted average interest rate at end of period: fixed rate 6.34 % 6.18 % variable rate 2.57 % 5.90 % total weighted average rate 5.77 % 6.08 % income taxes. for the year ended december 31, 2008, income taxes increased $2.8 million to $4.3 million. this increase is primarily due to an increase in taxable income related to a portion of one of our mezzanine loan investments, which was contributed to a trs in january 2008. equity income from unconsolidated joint ventures. for the year ended december 31, 2008, equity income from unconsolidated joint ventures decreased $2.3 million, to $3.3 million. this decrease is primarily due to a change in the expected useful life of certain intangible assets of one of our unconsolidated joint ventures that resulted in higher amounts of amortization expense. minority interests' share in earnings. for the year ended december 31, 2008, minority interests' share in earnings decreased $2.3 million, to $21.3 million. this decrease is primarily due to the conversion of 2.8 million of downreit units into shares of our common stock during 2008, and to a lesser extent, the purchase in september 2008 of tenet's minority interest in health care property partners ("hcpp"), a joint venture between hcp and an affiliate of tenet. we expect that these conversions and the purchase of tenet's minority interest in hcpp will decrease distributions of minority interests during 2009 relative to amounts in 2008. see notes 2 and 4 to the consolidated financial statements in this report for additional information on downreit units and hcpp. in december 2007, the fasb issued statement of financial accounting standards no. 160, noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statements an amendment of arb no. 51 ("sfas no. 160"). upon adoption on january 1, 2009, sfas no. 160 requires us to include the net income attributable to the minority interests in our consolidated net income. however, the adoption of sfas no. 160 is not expected to significantly change the amount of net income applicable to common shares. 56 table of contents discontinued operations. income from discontinued operations for the year ended december 31, 2008 was $244.2 million, compared to $473.4 million for the comparable period in the prior year. the decrease is primarily due to a decrease in gains on real estate dispositions. during the year ended december 31, 2008, we sold 51 properties for $643 million, as compared to 97 properties for $922 million in the year-ago period. additionally, the decrease was attributable to a year over year decline in operating income from discontinued operations of $51.4 million and an increase in impairment charges of $2.8 million. discontinued operations for the year ended december 31, 2008 included 57 properties compared to 154 for the year ended december 31, 2007. also included in discontinued operations during the year ended december 31, 2007 was $6 million of rental income we recognized, as a result of a change in estimate related to the collectibility of straight-line rental income from emeritus. comparison of the year ended december 31, 2007 to the year ended december 31, 2006 we completed our acquisition of seusa on august 1, 2007, mergers with crp and crc on october 5, 2006 and the acquisition of an interest held by an affiliate of general electric ("ge") in hcp mop on november 30, 2006, which resulted in the consolidation of hcp mop beginning on that date. the results of operations from our seusa, crp and hcp mop transactions are reflected in our consolidated financial statements from those respective dates. rental and related revenues. year ended december 31, change segments 2007 2006 $ % (dollars in thousands) senior housing $ 293,331 $ 162,988 $ 130,343 80 % life science 79,660 14,919 64,741 nm (1) medical office 275,951 155,801 120,150 77 hospital 80,960 49,540 31,420 63 skilled nursing 35,172 32,955 2,217 7 total $ 765,074 $ 416,203 $ 348,871 84 % (1) percentage change not meaningful. senior housing. senior housing rental and related revenues increased $130.3 million, to $293.3 million, for the year ended december 31, 2007. approximately $98 million of the increase relates to properties acquired in the crp merger. additionally, the results for the year ended december 31, 2007, include income of $9 million resulting from our change in estimate relating to the collectibility of straight-line rents due from summerville senior living, inc. the remaining increase in senior housing rental and related revenues primarily relates to rent escalations and resets, and the additive effect of our other acquisitions in 2007 and 2006. life science. life science rental and related revenues increased by $64.7 million, to $79.7 million, for the year ended december 31, 2007, primarily as a result of our acquisition of seusa on august 1, 2007. medical office. medical office rental and related revenues increased $120.2 million, to $276.0 million, for the year ended december 31, 2007. approximately $31 million of the increase relates to mobs acquired in the crp merger and $64.7 million relates to the consolidation of hcp mop. the remaining increase in medical office rental and related revenues primarily relates to the additive effect of our mob acquisitions in 2007 and 2006. hospital. hospital rental and related revenues increased by $31.4 million, to $81.0 million, for the year ended december 31, 2007. approximately $29.7 million of the increase relates to the 57 table of contents additive effect of our hospital acquisitions in 2007 and $1.9 million related to properties acquired in the crp merger. tenant recoveries. year ended december 31, change segments 2007 2006 $ % (dollars in thousands) life science $ 19,311 $ 3,935 $ 15,376 nm (1) medical office 44,451 25,172 19,279 77 % hospital 1,092 34 1,058 nm (1) total $ 64,854 $ 29,141 $ 35,713 123 % (1) percentage change not meaningful. life science. life science tenant recoveries increased by $15.4 million, to $19.3 million, for the year ended december 31, 2007, primarily as a result of our acquisition of seusa on august 1, 2007. medical office. medical office tenant recoveries increased $19.3 million, to $44.5 million, for the year ended december 31, 2007. approximately $10.3 million of the increase relates to mobs acquired in the crp merger and $7.7 million relates to the consolidation of hcp mop. the remaining increase in medical office tenant recoveries primarily relates to the additive effect of our mob acquisitions in 2007 and 2006. hospital. hospital tenant recoveries increased as a result of our hospital acquisitions in 2007. income from direct financing leases. income from direct financing leases increased $48.8 million, to $63.9 million, for the year ended december 31, 2007, primarily as a result of properties acquired from crp, which are accounted for using the direct financing method. at december 31, 2007, these leased properties had a carrying value of $640.1 million and accrued income at a weighted average interest rate of 8.5%. during the year ended december 31, 2007, two dfl tenants exercised their purchase options and we received proceeds of $51 million and recognized additional income of $4.3 million. investment management fee income. investment management fee income increased $9.7 million, to $13.6 million, for the year ended december 31, 2007. the increase was primarily due to the acquisition fees related to hcp ventures ii of $5.4 million on january 5, 2007 and hcp ventures iv of $3.0 million on april 30, 2007, partially offset by the decline in fees of $3.1 million resulting from our purchase of ge's interests in hcp mop on november 30, 2006. depreciation and amortization expenses. depreciation and amortization expenses increased $140.6 million, to $258.9 million, for the year ended december 31, 2007. approximately $64.8 million of the increase relates to properties acquired in the crp merger, $19.2 million relates to the consolidation of hcp mop and $33.5 million relates to the seusa acquisition. the remaining increase in depreciation and amortization primarily relates to the additive effect of our other acquisitions in 2007 and 2006. 58 table of contents operating expenses. year ended december 31, change segments 2007 2006 $ % (dollars in thousands) senior housing $ 10,958 $ 8,972 $ 1,986 22 % life science 26,220 4,969 21,251 nm (1) medical office 136,171 65,312 70,859 nm (1) hospital 1,907 1,907 100 % total $ 175,256 $ 79,253 $ 96,003 121 % (1) percentage change not meaningful. operating expenses are predominantly related to mob and life science properties where we incur the expenses and recover a portion of those expenses under the lease. accordingly, the number of properties in our mob and life science portfolios directly impact operating expenses. the presentation of expenses as general and administrative or operating is based on the underlying nature of the expense. periodically, we review the classification of expenses between categories and make revisions based on changes in the underlying nature of the expense. senior housing. included in operating expenses are facility-level operating expenses for three senior housing properties that were previously leased on a triple-net basis. periodically, tenants default on their leases, which causes us to take possession of the operations of the facility. we contract with third-party managers to manage these properties until a replacement tenant can be identified or the property can be sold. the operating revenues and expenses for these properties are included in healthcare rental revenues and operating expenses, respectively. the increase in reported operating expenses for these facilities of $0.9 million, to $9.6 million for the year ended december 31, 2007, was primarily due to an increase in the overall occupancy of such properties. life science. life science operating expenses increased by $21.3 million, to $26.2 million, for the year ended december 31, 2007, primarily as a result of our acquisition of seusa on august 1, 2007. medical office. medical office operating expenses increased $70.9 million, to $136.2 million, for the year ended december 31, 2007. approximately $34.8 million relates to the consolidation of hcp mop and $16.6 million of the increase relates to properties acquired in the crp merger. the remaining increase in medical office operating expenses relates to the additive effect of our acquisitions in 2007 and 2006. hospital. hospital operating expenses increased as a result of our hospital acquisitions in 2007. general and administrative expenses. general and administrative expenses increased $21.5 million, to $68.4 million, for the year ended december 31, 2007. included in general and administrative expenses are merger and integration-related expenses associated with the crc and crp mergers and the seusa acquisition of $10 million for the year ended december 31, 2007, compared to $5 million in the prior year. merger and integration-related expenses are primarily costs from our crp merger, such as employee transition costs as well as severance costs for certain of our employees whose responsibilities became redundant after the completion of the merger. the remaining increase was primarily due to various items including increased professional and legal fees, federal and state taxes, and compensation related expenses. impairments. during the year ended december 31, 2006, we recognized impairments of $3.6 million as follows: (i) $1.0 million as a result of a decrease in expected cash flows from a senior 59 table of contents housing facility and (ii) $2.6 million as a result of the contribution of 25 properties into a senior housing joint venture in january 2007. no properties were determined to be impaired during the year ended december 31, 2007. gain on sale of real estate interest. on april 30, 2007, we sold an 80% interest in hcp ventures iv, which resulted in a gain of $10.1 million. there were no interests in joint ventures sold during the year ended december 31, 2006. interest and other income, net. interest and other income, net increased $40.9 million, to $75.6 million, for the year ended december 31, 2007. the increase was primarily related to an increase of $24.0 million of interest income from $275 million of marketable debt securities, $9.3 million of interest income from an $85 million loan acquired in the crp merger and $7.6 million of interest income from cash and cash equivalents. during 2007, our marketable debt securities accrued interest at rates ranging from 9.25% to 9.625%, and our $85 million loan accrued interest at a rate of 14%. interest expense. interest expense increased $144.0 million, to $355.5 million, for the year ended december 31, 2007. this increase was primarily due to (i) $106 million of interest expense from the issuance of $2.65 billion of senior unsecured notes during 2006 and 2007, (ii) $43 million increase in our outstanding mortgage debt resulting primarily from our acquisitions of crp, consolidation of hcp mop and other property acquisitions, (iii) $17 million from the increase in outstanding indebtedness under our bridge and term loans and line of credit facilities, and the related amortization and write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs. the increase in interest expense is partially offset by $11 million increase in the amount of capitalized interest relating to the increase in assets under development primarily from our acquisition of seusa and $10 million decrease related to the repayment of $275 million of maturing senior unsecured notes during 2006 and 2007. the table below sets forth information with respect to our debt, excluding premiums and discounts (dollars in thousands): as of december 31, 2007 2006 balance: fixed rate $ 4,704,988 $ 4,541,237 variable rate 2,822,316 1,669,031 total $ 7,527,304 $ 6,210,268 percent of total debt: fixed rate 63 % 73 % variable rate 37 27 total 100 % 100 % weighted average interest rate at end of period: fixed rate 6.18 % 5.91 % variable rate 5.90 % 6.13 % total weighted average rate 6.08 % 5.97 % equity income from unconsolidated joint ventures. for the year ended december 31, 2007, equity income decreased $2.7 million, to $5.6 million. this decrease is primarily due to our consolidation of hcp mop, which was previously accounted for as an equity method investment, partially offset by equity income from hcp ventures ii, iii and iv. minority interests' share in earnings. for the year ended december 31, 2007, minority interests' share in earnings increased $9.5 million, to $23.5 million. this increase was primarily due to the 60 table of contents issuance of 4.2 million non-managing member units of hcp dr mcd, llc, in connection with our february 9, 2007 acquisition of a medical campus. discontinued operations. income from discontinued operations for the year ended december 31, 2007 was $473.4 million, compared to $384.1 million for the comparable period in the prior year. the increase is primarily due to an increase in gains on real estate dispositions of $128.3 million and a decline in impairment charges of $6 million year over year. during the year ended december 31, 2007, we sold 97 properties for $922 million, as compared to 83 properties for $512 million in the year-ago period. the increase was partially offset by a year over year decline in operating income from discontinued operations of $45.0 million. discontinued operations for the year ended december 31, 2007 included 154 properties compared to 237 for the year ended december 31, 2006. included in discontinued operations during the year ended december 31, 2007 was income of $6 million, resulting from a change in estimate related to the collectibility of straight-line rental income from emeritus corporation. liquidity and capital resources our principal liquidity needs are to (i) fund normal operating expenses, (ii) repay the $320 million outstanding balance on the bridge loan, (iii) meet debt service requirements, including $155 million of our mortgage debt maturing in 2009, (iv) fund capital expenditures, including tenant improvements and leasing costs, (v) fund acquisition and development activities, and (vi) make minimum distributions required to maintain our reit qualification under the code. we believe these needs will be satisfied using cash flows generated by operations, provided by financing activities and from sales of assets during the next twelve months. access to capital markets impacts our cost of capital and ability to refinance maturing indebtedness, as well as to fund future acquisitions and development through the issuance of additional securities or secured debt. during 2008, we raised $1 billion of equity capital, $656 million from asset dispositions, $566 million from the placement of fannie mae secured debt and $197 million in the bank term loan market. as of january 31, 2009, we had a credit rating of baa3 (stable) from moody's, bbb (stable) from s&amp;p and bbb (positive) from fitch on our senior unsecured debt securities, and ba1 (stable) from moody's, bb+ (stable) from s&amp;p and bbb- (positive) from fitch on our preferred equity securities. during 2008, there was a decline in the availability of financing from the capital markets and widening credit spreads. our ability to continue to access capital could be impacted by various factors including general market conditions and the continuing slowdown in the economy, interest rates, credit ratings on our securities, and any changes to these ratings, the market price of our capital stock, the performance of our portfolio, tenants, borrowers and operators, including any restructurings, disruptions or bankruptcies of our tenants, borrowers and operators, the perception of our potential future earnings and cash distributions, any unwillingness on the part of lenders to make loans to us and any deterioration in the financial position of lenders that might make them unable to meet their obligations to us. net cash provided by operating activities was $568.7 million and $453.1 million for 2008 and 2007, respectively. cash flow from operations reflects increased revenues partially offset by higher costs and expenses, as well as fluctuations in receivables, payables, accruals and deferred revenue. our cash flows from operations are dependent upon the occupancy level of multi-tenant buildings, rental rates on leases, our tenants' performance on their lease obligations, the level of operating expenses and other factors. net cash provided by investing activities was $427.3 million during 2008 and principally reflects the net effect of: (i) $639.6 million received from the sales of facilities, (ii) $155.5 million used to fund acquisitions and development of real estate, and (iii) $30.1 million used to purchase marketable securities. during 2008 and 2007, we used $60.0 million and $49.7 million, respectively, to fund lease 61 table of contents commissions and tenant and capital improvements. we expect to fund development commitments of $36.5 million for 2009. net cash used by financing activities was $1.0 billion for 2008 and included proceeds of (i) $1.1 billion from common stock issuances and exercise of options, (ii) $579.6 million from the placement of mortgage debt and draws on construction loans, and (iii) $200 million from borrowings under our term loan. these proceeds were partially offset by or used for (i) repayments of $801.7 million of borrowings under our line of credit, (ii) repayment of $1.0 billion of borrowings under our bridge loan, (iii) repayment of $300 million of senior unsecured notes, (iv) repayment of mortgage debt aggregating $225.3 million and (v) payment of common and preferred dividends aggregating $457.6 million. in order to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we must distribute at least 90% of our taxable income, excluding capital gains, to our stockholders. accordingly, we intend to continue to make regular quarterly distributions to holders of our common and preferred stock. at december 31, 2008, we held approximately $15.0 million in deposits and $38.2 million in irrevocable letters of credit from commercial banks securing tenants' lease obligations and borrowers' loan obligations. we may draw upon the letters of credit or depository accounts, subject to certain restrictions by mortgage lenders, if there are defaults under the related leases or loans. amounts available under letters of credit could change based upon facility operating conditions and other factors, and such changes may be material. debt bank line of credit and bridge and term loans. our revolving line of credit with a syndicate of banks provided for an aggregate $1.5 billion of borrowing capacity at december 31, 2008. this revolving line of credit facility accrues interest at a rate per annum equal to libor plus a margin ranging from 0.325% to 1.00%, depending upon our debt ratings. we pay a facility fee on the entire revolving commitment ranging from 0.10% to 0.25%, depending upon our debt ratings. based on our debt ratings on december 31, 2008, the margin on the revolving line of credit facility was 0.55% and the facility fee was 0.15%. our revolving line of credit facility matures on august 1, 2011. at december 31, 2008, we had $150 million outstanding under this revolving line of credit facility with a weighted-average effective interest rate of 1.36%. at december 31, 2008, the outstanding balance of our bridge loan was $320 million. the bridge loan had an initial maturity date of july 31, 2008 that has been extended to july 30, 2009 through the exercise of two extension options. this bridge loan accrues interest at a rate per annum equal to libor plus a margin ranging from 0.425% to 1.25%, depending upon our debt ratings (weighted-average effective interest rate of 2.19% at december 31, 2008). based on our debt ratings on december 31, 2008, the margin on the bridge loan facility was 0.70%. our revolving line of credit facility and bridge loan contain certain financial restrictions and other customary requirements. a portion of these financial covenants become more restrictive through the period ending march 31, 2009. among other things, these covenants, using terms defined in the agreement, (i) limit the ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to consolidated total asset value to 60%, (ii) limit the ratio of unsecured debt to consolidated unencumbered asset value to 65%, (iii) require a fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.75 times, and (iv) require a formula-determined minimum consolidated tangible net worth of $4.2 billion at december 31, 2008. at december 31, 2008, we were in compliance with each of these restrictions and requirements of our credit revolving credit facility and bridge loan. on october 24, 2008, we entered into a credit agreement with a syndicate of banks for a $200 million unsecured term loan, which matures on august 1, 2011. the term loan accrues interest at a rate per annum equal to libor plus a margin ranging from 1.825% to 2.375%, depending upon our debt ratings (weighted-average effective interest rate of 3.68% at december 31, 2008). based on our 62 table of contents debt rating on december 31, 2008, the margin on the term loan was 2.00%. we received net proceeds of $197 million, which were used to repay a portion of our outstanding indebtedness under our bridge loan facility. the term loan contains certain financial restrictions and other customary requirements, similar to those included in our revolving line of credit and bridge loan. at december 31, 2008, we were in compliance with each of these restrictions and requirements of the term loan. our revolving line of credit facility and bridge and term loans also contain cross-default provisions to other indebtedness of ours, including in some instances, certain mortgages on our properties. certain mortgages contain default provisions relating to defaults under the leases or operating agreements on the applicable properties by our operators or tenants, including default provisions relating to the bankruptcy of such operator or tenant. although we believe that we would be able to secure amendments under the applicable agreements if a default as described above occurs, such default may result in significantly less favorable borrowing terms than currently available, material delays in the availability of funding or other material adverse consequences. senior unsecured notes. at december 31, 2008, we had $3.5 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes outstanding. interest rates on the notes ranged from 2.90% to 7.07% with a weighted average effective rate of 6.25% at december 31, 2008. discounts and premiums are amortized to interest expense over the term of the related debt. in september 2008, we repaid $300 million of maturing senior unsecured notes which accrued interest based on the three-month libor plus 0.45%. the notes were repaid with funds available under our revolving line of credit facility. the senior unsecured notes contain certain covenants including limitations on debt, cross-acceleration provisions and other customary terms. at december 31, 2008, we were in compliance with these covenants. mortgage debt. at december 31, 2008, we had $1.6 billion in mortgage debt secured by 198 healthcare facilities with a carrying amount of $2.8 billion. interest rates on the mortgage notes ranged from 1.03% to 8.63% with a weighted-average effective interest rate of 6.10% at december 31, 2008. in may 2008, we placed $259 million of seven-year mortgage financing on 21 of our senior housing assets. the assets are cross-collateralized and the debt has a fixed interest rate of 5.83%. we received net proceeds aggregating $254 million, which were used to repay outstanding indebtedness under our revolving line of credit facility and bridge loan. in september 2008, we placed mortgage financing on our senior housing assets through fannie mae aggregating $319 million, which was comprised of $140 million of five-year mortgage financing on four assets and $179 million of eight-year financing on 12 assets. the assets are cross-collateralized and the debt has a weighted-average fixed interest rate of 6.39%. we received net proceeds aggregating $312 million, which were used to repay our outstanding indebtedness under our revolving line of credit facility. on december 19, 2008, we recognized a gain of $2.4 million related to the negotiated early repayment of $120 million of mortgage debt, at a discount, with an original maturity of january 27, 2009. the mortgage debt was repaid with funds available under our revolving line of credit facility. mortgage debt generally requires monthly principal and interest payments, is collateralized by certain properties and is generally non-recourse. mortgage debt typically restricts transfer of the encumbered properties, prohibits additional liens, restricts prepayment, requires payment of real estate taxes, requires maintenance of the properties in good condition, requires maintenance of insurance on the properties and includes requirements to obtain lender consent to enter into and terminate material leases. some of the mortgage debt is also cross-collateralized by multiple properties and may require tenants or operators to maintain compliance with the applicable leases or operating agreements of such properties. 63 table of contents other debt. at december 31, 2008, we had $102.2 million of non-interest bearing life care bonds at two of our ccrcs and non-interest bearing occupancy fee deposits at another of our senior housing facilities, all of which were payable to certain residents of the facilities (collectively "life care bonds"). at december 31, 2008, $42.4 million of the life care bonds were refundable to the residents upon the resident moving out or to their estate upon death, and $59.8 million of the life care bonds were refundable after the unit is successfully remarketed to a new resident. derivative financial instruments. during october and november 2007, we entered into two forward-starting interest rate swap contracts with notional amounts aggregating $900 million. in june 2008, we terminated these hedges per the cash settlement provisions of the derivative contracts. the termination of the $500 million notional contract resulted in a payment of $14.8 million and the termination of the $400 million notional contract resulted in a cash receipt of $5.2 million. we also have three interest rate swap contracts outstanding at december 31, 2008, which hedge fluctuations in interest payments on variable rate secured debt. at december 31, 2008, these interest rate swap contracts had an aggregate notional amount of $45.6 million and a fair value of a $2.3 million liability, respectively. for a more detailed description of our derivative financial instruments, see "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" in item 7a. debt maturities the following table summarizes our stated debt maturities and scheduled principal repayments, excluding debt premiums and discounts, at december 31, 2008 (in thousands): year bank line of credit (1) bridge and term loans senior unsecured notes mortgage debt other debt (2) total 2009 $ $ 320,000 $ $ 155,347 $ 102,209 $ 577,556 2010 206,421 298,499 504,920 2011 150,000 200,000 300,000 137,570 787,570 2012 250,000 60,919 310,919 2013 550,000 233,068 783,068 thereafter 2,237,000 751,308 2,988,308 $ 150,000 $ 520,000 $ 3,543,421 $ 1,636,711 $ 102,209 $ 5,952,341 (1) funds from our bank line of credit were drawn for the early repayment of $120 million of mortgage debt with an original maturity date in january 2009. (2) other debt represents non-interest bearing life care bonds and occupancy fee deposits at three of our senior housing facilities, which are payable on-demand, under certain conditions. we have a prospectus on file with the sec as part of a registration statement on form s-3, using a shelf registration process which expires in 2009. under this "shelf" process, we may sell from time to time any combination of the securities in one or more offerings. the securities described in the prospectus include common stock, preferred stock and debt securities. each time we sell securities under the shelf registration, we will provide a prospectus supplement that will contain specific information about the terms of the securities being offered and of the offering. we may offer and sell the securities pursuant to this prospectus from time to time in one or more of the following ways: through underwriters or dealers, through agents, directly to purchasers or through a combination of any of these methods of sales. proceeds from the sale of these securities may be used for general corporate purposes, which may include repayment of indebtedness, working capital and potential acquisitions. during 2008, we issued approximately $1.0 billion of common stock under the shelf. 64 table of contents equity on april 2, 2008, we issued 17 million shares of our common stock and used the net proceeds received of approximately $560 million to repay a portion of our outstanding indebtedness under our revolving line of credit facility. on august 11, 2008, we issued 14.95 million shares of our common stock and used the net proceeds received of approximately $481 million to repay a portion of our outstanding indebtedness under our bridge loan. at december 31, 2008, we had 4.0 million shares of 7.25% series e cumulative redeemable preferred stock, 7.8 million shares of 7.10% series f cumulative redeemable preferred stock and 253.6 million shares of common stock outstanding. during the year ended december 31, 2008, we issued approximately 438,000 shares of our common stock under our dividend reinvestment and stock purchase plan, at an average price per share of $30.71 for aggregate proceeds of $13.5 million. we also received $11.5 million in proceeds from stock option exercises. at december 31, 2008, stockholders' equity totaled $5.2 billion and our equity securities had a market value of $3.8 billion. as of december 31, 2008, there were a total of 4.8 million downreit units outstanding in six limited liability companies in which we are the managing member: (i) hcpi/tennessee, llc; (ii) hcpi/utah, llc; (iii) hcpi/utah ii, llc; (iv) hcp dr california, llc; (v) hcp dr alabama, llc; and (vi) hcp dr mcd, llc. the downreit units are redeemable for an amount of cash approximating the then-existing market value of shares of our common stock or, at our option, shares of our common stock (subject to certain adjustments, such as stock splits and reclassifications). for the year ended december 31, 2008, we issued 3.7 million shares of our common stock upon the conversion of 2.8 million downreit units. off-balance sheet arrangements we own interests in certain unconsolidated joint ventures, including hcp ventures ii, hcp ventures iii and hcp ventures iv, as described under note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. except in limited circumstances, our risk of loss is limited to our investment in the joint venture and any outstanding loans receivable. in addition, we have certain properties which serve as collateral for debt that is owed by a previous owner of certain of our facilities, as described under note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. our risk of loss for these properties is limited to the outstanding debt balance plus penalties, if any. we have no other material off-balance sheet arrangements that we expect would materially affect our liquidity and capital resources except those described below under "contractual obligations." 65 table of contents contractual obligations the following table summarizes our material contractual payment obligations and commitments at december 31, 2008 (in thousands): total less than one year 2010-2011 2012-2013 more than five years senior unsecured notes and mortgage debt $ 5,180,132 $ 155,347 $ 942,490 $ 1,093,987 $ 2,988,308 development commitments (1) 36,460 36,460 bank line of credit (2) 150,000 150,000 bridge and term loans 520,000 320,000 200,000 ground and other operating leases 176,981 3,638 6,809 6,996 159,538 other debt (3) 102,209 102,209 interest 1,862,348 324,163 576,286 459,660 502,239 total $ 8,028,130 $ 941,817 $ 1,875,585 $ 1,560,643 $ 3,650,085 (1) represents construction and other commitments for developments in progress. (2) funds from our bank line of credit were drawn for the early repayment of $120 million of mortgage debt with an original maturity date in january 2009. (3) other debt represents non-interest bearing life care bonds and occupancy fee deposits at three of our senior housing facilities, which are payable on-demand, under certain conditions. inflation our leases often provide for either fixed increases in base rents or indexed escalators, based on the consumer price index or other measures, and/or additional rent based on increases in the tenants' operating revenues. substantially all of our mob leases require the tenant to pay a share of property operating costs such as real estate taxes, insurance and utilities. substantially all of our senior housing, life science, skilled nursing and hospital leases require the operator or tenant to pay all of the property operating costs or reimburse us for all such costs. we believe that inflationary increases in expenses will be offset, in part, by the operator or tenant expense reimbursements and contractual rent increases described above. recent accounting pronouncements see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in this report for the impact of new accounting standards. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk. at december 31, 2008, we were exposed to market risks related to fluctuations in interest rates on approximately $1.0 billion of variable rate mezzanine loans receivable and $111 million investment in leased assets whose rental payments fluctuate with changes in libor. our exposure to income fluctuations related to our variable rate investments is partially offset by (i) $150 million of variable rate line of credit borrowings, (ii) $520 million of variable rate bridge and term financing, (iii) $197 million of variable rate mortgage notes payable, excluding $46 million variable rate mortgage notes which have been hedged through interest rate swap contracts, and (iv) $25 million of variable rate senior unsecured notes. of our consolidated debt of $6.0 billion at december 31, 2008, excluding the $46 million of variable rate debt where the rates have been swapped to a fixed rate, $892 million or 15% is at variable interest rates. interest rate fluctuations will generally not affect our future earnings or cash flows on our fixed rate debt, loans receivable and debt securities unless such instruments mature or are otherwise 66 table of contents terminated. however, interest rate changes will affect the fair value of our fixed rate instruments. conversely, changes in interest rates on variable rate debt and investments would change our future earnings and cash flows, but not significantly affect the fair value of those instruments. assuming a one percentage point increase in the interest rate related to the variable-rate investments and variable-rate debt, and assuming no change in the outstanding balance as of december 31, 2008, net interest income would improve by approximately $2.2 million, or $0.01 per common share on a diluted basis. assuming a 50 basis point decrease in interest rates under the above circumstances and taking into consideration that the index underlying many of our arrangements is currently below 50 basis points and is not expected to go below zero, net interest income would decline by $1.1 million. we use derivative financial instruments in the normal course of business to manage or hedge interest rate risk. we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. derivatives are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value in accordance with sfas no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities . see note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in this report for further information in this regard. at december 31, 2008, we had three interest rate swap contracts outstanding which are designated in qualifying cash flow hedging relationships. on december 31 2008, the interest rate swap contracts have an aggregate notional amount and fair value of $45.6 million and a $2.3 million liability, respectively. the derivative contracts mature in july 2020 and are currently recognized in accounts payable and accrued liabilities. to illustrate the effect of movements in the interest rate markets, we performed a market sensitivity analysis on the noted hedging instruments. to do so, we applied various basis point spreads, to the underlying interest rates of the derivative portfolio in order to determine the instruments' change in fair value. the following table summarizes the analysis performed (dollars in thousands): effects of change in interest rates date entered maturity date 50 basis points -50 basis points 100 basis points -100 basis points july 13, 2005 july 15, 2020 $ 2,140 $ (2,426 ) $ 4,423 $ (4,709 ) market risk. we are directly and indirectly affected by changes in the equity and bond markets. we have investments in marketable debt and equity securities classified as available for sale. gains and losses on these securities are recognized in income when realized and losses are recognized when an other-than-temporary decline in value is identified. the initial indicator of an other-than-temporary decline in value for marketable equity securities is a sustained decline in market price below the carrying value for that investment. we consider a variety of factors in evaluating an other-than-temporary decline in value, such as: the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been less than our cost; the issuer's financial condition, capital strength and near-term prospects; any recent events specific to that issuer and economic conditions of its industry; and our investment horizon in relationship to an anticipated near-term recovery in the stock or bond price, if any. at december 31, 2008, the fair value and cost, or the new basis for those securities where a realized loss was recorded, of marketable equity securities was $3.8 million and $4.2 million, respectively, and the fair value and cost of marketable debt securities was $229 million and $295 million, respectively. the principal amount and the average interest rates for our loans receivable and debt categorized by maturity dates is presented in the table below. the fair value for our debt securities and senior unsecured notes payable are based on prevailing market prices. the fair value estimates for loans 67 table of contents receivable and mortgage debt payable are based on discounting future cash flows utilizing current rates offered to us for loans and debt of the same type and remaining maturity. maturity 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 thereafter total fair value (dollars in thousands) assets: loans receivable $ 94,769 $ 19,374 $ 3,028 $ $ 1,009,747 $ 36,134 $ 1,163,052 $ 981,128 weighted average interest rate 13.35 % 10.42 % 10.34 % % 5.41 % 8.50 % 6.25 % debt securities available for sale $ $ $ $ $ $ 297,000 $ 297,000 $ 228,660 weighted average interest rate % % % % % 9.60 % 9.60 % liabilities: variable-rate debt: bank line of credit $ $ $ 150,000 $ $ $ $ 150,000 $ 150,000 weighted average interest rate % % 1.36 % % % % 1.36 % bridge and term loans $ 320,000 $ $ 200,000 $ $ $ $ 520,000 $ 520,000 weighted average interest rate 2.19 % % 3.68 % % % % 2.76 % senior unsecured notes payable $ $ $ $ $ $ 25,000 $ 25,000 $ 11,470 weighted average interest rate % % % % % 2.96 % 2.96 % mortgage debt payable $ 33,324 $ 107,407 $ 33,695 $ 8,532 $ 5,518 $ 8,955 $ 197,431 $ 172,118 weighted average interest rate 3.39 % 2.70 % 2.93 % 3.48 % 3.49 % 2.08 % 2.88 % fixed-rate debt: senior unsecured notes payable $ $ 206,421 $ 300,000 $ 250,000 $ 550,000 $ 2,212,000 $ 3,518,421 $ 2,373,018 weighted average interest rate % 4.93 % 5.95 % 6.45 % 5.64 % 6.30 % 6.18 % mortgage debt payable $ 122,023 $ 191,092 $ 103,876 $ 52,387 $ 227,549 $ 742,353 $ 1,439,280 $ 1,365,938 weighted average interest rate 6.94 % 7.06 % 6.31 % 6.34 % 6.13 % 6.04 % 6.29 % other debt (1) $ 102,209 $ $ $ $ $ $ 102,209 $ 102,209 weighted average interest rate % % % % % % % (1) other debt represents non-interest bearing life care bonds and occupancy fee deposits at three of our senior housing facilities, which are payable on-demand, under certain conditions.risk factors 14 healthcare segments senior housing. at december 31, 2009, we had interests in 256 senior housing facilities, including 25 facilities owned by our investment management platform (1) . senior housing facilities include independent living facilities ("ilfs"), assisted living facilities ("alfs") and continuing care retirement communities ("ccrcs"), which cater to different segments of the elderly population based upon their needs. services provided by our operators or tenants in these facilities are primarily paid for by the residents directly or through private insurance and are less reliant on government reimbursement programs such as medicaid and medicare. our senior housing property types are further described below: (1) investment management platform represents the following unconsolidated joint ventures: (i) hcp ventures ii, (ii) hcp ventures iii, llc, (iii) hcp ventures iv, llc, and (iv) the hcp life science ventures. for a more detailed description of these unconsolidated joint ventures, see note 8 of the consolidated financial statements in this report. independent living facilities. ilfs are designed to meet the needs of seniors who choose to live in an environment surrounded by their peers with services such as housekeeping, meals and activities. these residents generally do not need assistance with activities of daily living ("adl"), such as bathing, eating and dressing. however, residents have the option to contract for these services. at december 31, 2009, we had interests in 49 ilfs. 5 table of contents assisted living facilities. alfs are licensed care facilities that provide personal care services, support and housing for those who need help with adl yet require limited medical care. the programs and services may include transportation, social activities, exercise and fitness programs, beauty or barber shop access, hobby and craft activities, community excursions, meals in a dining room setting and other activities sought by residents. these facilities are often in apartment-like buildings with private residences ranging from single rooms to large apartments. certain alfs may offer higher levels of personal assistance for residents with alzheimer's disease or other forms of dementia. levels of personal assistance are based in part on local regulations. at december 31, 2009, we had interests in 193 alfs. continuing care retirement communities. ccrcs provide housing and health-related services under long-term contracts. this alternative is appealing to residents as it eliminates the need for relocating when health and medical needs change, thus allowing residents to "age in place." some ccrcs require a substantial entry or buy-in fee and most also charge monthly maintenance fees in exchange for a living unit, meals and some health services. ccrcs typically require the individual to be in relatively good health and independent upon entry. at december 31, 2009, we had interests in 14 ccrcs. our senior housing segment accounted for approximately 30%, 30% and 38% of total revenues for the years ended december 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. the following table provides information about our senior housing operator concentration for the year ended december 31, 2009: operators percentage of segment revenues percentage of total revenues sunrise senior living, inc. ("sunrise") (1)(2) 35 % 11 % brookdale senior living inc. ("brookdale") 20 % 6 % (1) certain of our properties are leased to tenants who have entered into management contracts with sunrise to operate the respective property on their behalf. to determine our concentration of revenues generated from properties operated by sunrise, we aggregate revenue from these tenants with revenue generated from the two properties that are leased directly to sunrise. (2) on october 1, 2009, we completed the transition of management agreements on 15 communities operated by sunrise that were previously terminated for sunrise's failure to achieve certain performance thresholds. the percentage of segment revenues and total revenues for sunrise excludes revenues from the transitioned properties. in addition to the operator concentration above, hcp ventures ii, a 35% owned joint venture interest, leases its 25 senior housing facilities to horizon bay retirement living. during the year ended december 31, 2009, hcp ventures ii's rental and related revenues were $83.5 million. life science. at december 31, 2009, we had interests in 98 life science properties, including four facilities owned by our investment management platform. these properties contain laboratory and office space primarily for biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, scientific research institutions, government agencies and other organizations involved in the life science industry. while these properties contain similar characteristics to commercial office buildings, they generally contain more advanced electrical, mechanical, and heating, ventilating, and air conditioning ("hvac") systems. the facilities generally have equipment including emergency generators, fume hoods, lab bench tops and related amenities. in many instances, life science tenants make significant investments to improve their leased space, in addition to landlord improvements, to accommodate biology or chemistry research initiatives. life science properties are primarily configured in business park or campus settings and include multiple facilities and buildings. the business park and campus settings allow us the opportunity to provide flexible, contiguous/adjacent expansion that accommodates the growth of existing tenants in place. our properties are located in well established geographical markets known for scientific research, including san francisco, san diego and salt lake city. 6 table of contents our life science segment accounted for approximately 22%, 21% and 10% of total revenues for the years ended december 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. the following table provides information about our life science tenant concentration for the year ended december 31, 2009: tenants percentage of segment revenues percentage of total revenues genentech, inc. ("genentech") 21 % 5 % amgen, inc. 14 % 3 % medical office. at december 31, 2009, we had interests in 251 medical office buildings ("mobs"), including 67 facilities owned by our investment management platform. these facilities typically contain physicians' offices and examination rooms, and may also include pharmacies, hospital ancillary service space and outpatient services such as diagnostic centers, rehabilitation clinics and day-surgery operating rooms. while these facilities are similar to commercial office buildings, they require additional plumbing, electrical and mechanical systems to accommodate multiple exam rooms that may require sinks in every room, and special equipment such as x-ray machines. in addition, mobs are often built to accommodate higher structural loads for certain equipment and may contain "vaults" or other specialized construction. our mobs are typically multi-tenant properties leased to healthcare providers (hospitals and physician practices) and are primarily located on hospital campuses. approximately 83% of our mobs, based on square feet, are located on hospital campuses. our medical office segment accounted for approximately 27%, 27% and 34% of total revenues for the years ended december 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. during the year ended december 31, 2009, hca, inc. ("hca"), as our tenant, contributed 6% of our medical office segment revenues. hospital. at december 31, 2009, we had interests in 22 hospitals, including four facilities owned by our investment management platform. services provided by our operators and tenants in these facilities are paid for by private sources, third-party payors (e.g., insurance and health maintenance organizations or "hmos"), or through the medicare and medicaid programs. our hospital property types include acute care, long-term acute care, specialty and rehabilitation hospitals. our hospitals are all leased to single tenants or operators under triple-net lease structures. in addition to our interests in hospitals, our hospital segment also includes mezzanine and mortgage loan investments, which at december 31, 2009 aggregated to $286 million. our hospital segment accounted for approximately 11% 11% and 13% of total revenues for the years ended december 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. the following table provides information about our hospital operator/tenant concentration for the year ended december 31, 2009: operators/tenants and borrowers percentage of segment revenues percentage of total revenues hca. 37 % 6% (1) tenet healthcare corporation ("tenet") 23 % 2 % (1) percentage of total revenues from hca includes revenues earned from both our medical office and hospital segments. skilled nursing. at december 31, 2009, we had interests in 48 skilled nursing facilities ("snfs"). snfs offer restorative, rehabilitative and custodial nursing care for people not requiring the more extensive and sophisticated treatment available at hospitals. ancillary revenues and revenues from sub-acute care services are derived from providing services to residents beyond room and board and include occupational, physical, speech, respiratory and intravenous therapy, wound care, oncology treatment, brain injury care and orthopedic therapy as well as sales of pharmaceutical products and other services. certain skilled nursing facilities provide some of the foregoing services on an out-patient basis. skilled nursing services provided by our operators and tenants in these facilities are primarily 7 table of contents paid for either by private sources or through the medicare and medicaid programs. all of our snfs are leased to single tenants under triple-net lease structures. in addition to our interests in snfs, our skilled nursing segment includes investments in mezzanine and mortgage loans to hcr manorcare, with a face amount in the aggregate of $1.72 billion at december 31, 2009. on december 21, 2007, we purchased $1.0 billion of mezzanine loans of hcr manorcare at a discount of $100 million, which resulted in an acquisition cost of $900 million, as part of the financing for the carlyle group's $6.3 billion purchase of manor care, inc. these interest-only loans mature in january 2013 and bear interest on their face values at a floating rate of one-month london interbank offered rate ("libor") plus 4.0%. these loans are mandatorily pre-payable in january 2012 unless the borrower satisfies certain performance conditions. on august 3, 2009, we purchased a $720 million participation in the first mortgage debt of hcr manorcare at a discount of $130 million, which resulted in an acquisition cost of $590 million. the $720 million participation bears interest at libor plus 1.25% and represents 45% of the $1.6 billion most senior tranche of hcr manorcare's mortgage debt incurred as part of the above mentioned financing for the carlyle group's acquisition of manor care, inc. the mortgage debt matures in january 2013 if the borrower meets certain performance conditions and exercises a one-year extension option. our skilled nursing segment accounted for approximately 10%, 11% and 5% of total revenues for the years ended december 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. the following table provides information about our skilled nursing operator operator/tenant concentration for the year ended december 31, 2009: operators/tenants and borrowers percentage of segment revenues percentage of total revenues hcr manorcare 67 % 7 % covenant care 8 % 1 % investment products properties under lease. at december 31, 2009, our investment in properties leased to third parties aggregated approximately $10 billion representing 575 properties, including 30 properties accounted for as direct financing leases ("dfls"). we primarily generate revenue by leasing properties under long-term leases. most of our rents and other earned income from leases are received under triple-net leases or leases that provide for a substantial recovery of operating expenses. however, some of our mobs and life science facility rents are structured under gross or modified gross leases. accordingly, for such gross or modified gross leases, we incur certain property operating expenses, such as real estate taxes, repairs and maintenance, property management fees, utilities and insurance. our ability to grow rental income from properties under lease depends, in part, on our ability to (i) increase rental income and other earned income from leases by increasing rental rates and occupancy levels, (ii) maximize tenant recoveries and (iii) control non-recoverable operating expenses. most of our leases include annual base rent escalation clauses that are either predetermined fixed increases and/or are a function of an inflation index. debt investments. at december 31, 2009, our mezzanine and mortgage loan investments aggregated $1.8 billion. our mezzanine loans are generally secured by a pledge of ownership interests of an entity or entities, which directly or indirectly own properties, and are subordinate to more senior debt, including mortgages and more senior mezzanine loans. our mortgages are generally secured by healthcare real estate issued by healthcare providers. 8 table of contents developments and redevelopments. at december 31, 2009, our investment in properties under development, including redevelopment and land held for future development, aggregated $632 million. we generally commit to development projects that are at least 50% pre-leased or when we believe that market conditions will support speculative construction. we work closely with our local real estate service providers, including brokerage, property management, project management and construction management companies to assist us in evaluating development proposals and completing developments. our development and redevelopment investments are primarily in our life science and medical office segments. investment management. at december 31, 2009, our investment management platform aggregated $2.0 billion in gross investments, representing 100 properties. we co-invest in real estate properties with institutional investors through joint ventures structured as partnerships or limited liability companies. we target institutional investors with long-term investment horizons who seek to benefit from our expertise in healthcare real estate. predominantly, we retain noncontrolling interests in the joint ventures ranging from 20% to 35% and serve as the managing member. these ventures generally allow us to earn acquisition and asset management fees, and have the potential for promoted interests or incentive distributions based on performance of the joint venture. non-managing member llc ("downreits"). our downreit structures enable us to acquire and hold real estate properties in operating downreit llcs. in connection with the formation of certain downreit llcs, many members contribute appreciated real estate to the downreit llc in exchange for downreit units that can be exchanged at some future date for shares of our stock or, at our election, redeemed for cash. these contributions are generally tax-deferred, so that the pre-contribution gain related to the property is not taxed to the contributing member. however, if the contributed property is later sold by the downreit llc, the unamortized pre-contribution gain that exists at the date of sale is specially allocated and taxed to the contributing members. in many of these downreits, we entered into indemnification agreements with our members, under which, if any of the appreciated real estate contributed by the members is sold by the downreit in a taxable transaction within a specified number of years after the property was contributed, we will reimburse the affected members for the income taxes associated with the pre-contribution gain that is specially allocated to the affected member. since the formation of our first downreit llc, we have acquired more than $1.0 billion of properties utilizing downreit structures. portfolio summary at december 31, 2009, we managed $13.8 billion of investments in our owned portfolio and investment management platform. at december 31, 2009, we also owned $632 million of assets under development, including redevelopment, or land held for future development. 9 table of contents owned portfolio as of december 31, 2009, our properties under lease and debt investments in our owned portfolio consisted of the following (square feet and dollars in thousands): investments year ended december 31, 2009 segment number of properties capacity (1) properties under lease (2) debt (3) total investment noi (4) interest income (5) senior housing 231 25,335 units $ 4,081,157 $ 7,013 $ 4,088,170 $ 338,373 $ 1,147 life science 94 6,083 sq. ft. 2,822,709 2,822,709 207,694 medical office 184 12,812 sq. ft. 2,137,140 2,137,140 176,663 hospital 18 2,510 beds 673,248 286,430 959,678 81,398 40,295 skilled nursing 48 5,628 beds 255,084 1,552,294 1,807,378 37,546 82,704 total 575 $ 9,969,338 $ 1,845,737 $ 11,815,075 $ 841,674 $ 124,146 see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements in this report for additional information on our business segments. (1) senior housing facilities are measured in units (e.g., studio, one or two bedroom units). life science facilities and medical office buildings are measured in square feet. hospitals and skilled nursing facilities are measured in licensed bed count. (2) investments in properties under lease represents (i) the carrying amount of real estate assets, including intangibles, after adding back accumulated depreciation and amortization, and assets under development and land held for future development, and (ii) the carrying amount of direct financing leases, excluding interest accretion. (3) debt investment represents the carrying amount of mezzanine, mortgage and other secured loan investments. (4) net operating income from continuing operations ("noi") is a non-gaap supplemental financial measure used to evaluate the operating performance of real estate properties. for the reconciliation of noi to net income for 2009, refer to note 14 in our consolidated financial statements in this report. (5) interest income represents interest earned from our debt investments. developments and redevelopments at december 31, 2009, in addition to our investments in properties under lease and debt investments, we have an aggregate investment of $632 million in assets under development, including redevelopment, and land held for future development, primarily in our life science and medical office segments. investment management platform as of december 31, 2009, our investment management platform consisted of the following properties under lease (square feet and dollars in thousands): segment number of properties capacity (1) hcp's ownership interest joint venture investment (2) total revenues total operating expenses senior housing 25 5,616 units 35% $ 1,099,376 $ 83,510 $ 7 medical office 67 3,372 sq. ft. 20 - 30% 719,760 80,015 31,682 life science 4 278 sq. ft. 50 - 63% 81,057 8,524 1,527 hospital 4 n/a (3) 20% 81,382 8,165 1,914 total 100 $ 1,981,575 $ 180,214 $ 35,130 (1) senior housing facilities are measured in units (e.g., studio, one or two bedroom units), life science facilities and medical office buildings are measured in square feet and hospitals are measured in licensed bed count. 10 table of contents (2) represents the joint ventures' carrying amount of real estate assets, including intangibles, after adding back accumulated depreciation and amortization. (3) information not provided by the respective operator or tenant. employees of hcp at december 31, 2009, we had 142 full-time employees, none of whom are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. government regulation, licensing and enforcement overview our tenants and operators are typically subject to extensive and complex federal, state and local healthcare laws and regulations relating to fraud and abuse practices, government reimbursement, licensure and certificate of need and similar laws governing the operation of healthcare facilities. these regulations are wide-ranging and can subject our tenants and operators to civil, criminal and administrative sanctions. affected tenants and operators may find it increasingly difficult to comply with this complex and evolving regulatory environment because of a relative lack of guidance in many areas as certain of our healthcare properties are subject to oversight from several government agencies and the laws may vary from one jurisdiction to another. changes in laws and regulations and reimbursement enforcement activity and regulatory non-compliance by our tenants and operators can all have a significant effect on their operations and financial condition, which in turn may adversely impact us, as detailed below and set forth under "risk factors" in item 1a. we seek to mitigate the risk to us resulting from the significant healthcare regulatory risks faced by our tenants and operators by diversifying our portfolio among property types and geographical areas, diversifying our tenant and operator base to limit our exposure to any single entity, and seeking tenants and operators who are not primarily dependent on medicare or medicaid reimbursement for their revenues. as of december 31, 2009, our investments in our senior housing, life science, medical office, hospital and skilled nursing segments represented approximately 35%, 24%, 18%, 8% and 15% of our portfolio, respectively. for the year ended december 31, 2009, we estimate that approximately 14% and 7% of our tenants' and operators' revenues were derived from medicare and medicaid, respectively, based on information provided by our tenants and operators. the following is a discussion of certain laws and regulations generally applicable to our operators and in certain cases, to us. fraud and abuse enforcement there are various extremely complex federal and state laws and regulations governing healthcare providers' relationships and arrangements and prohibiting fraudulent and abusive practices by such providers. these laws include (i) federal and state false claims acts, which, among other things, prohibit providers from filing false claims or making false statements to receive payment from medicare, medicaid or other federal or state healthcare programs, (ii) federal and state anti-kickback and fee-splitting statutes, including the medicare and medicaid anti-kickback statute, which prohibit the payment or receipt of remuneration to induce referrals or recommendations of healthcare items or services, (iii) federal and state physician self-referral laws (commonly referred to as the "stark law"), which generally prohibit referrals by physicians to entities with which the physician or an immediate family member has a financial relationship, (iv) the federal civil monetary penalties law, which prohibits, among other things, the knowing presentation of a false or fraudulent claim for certain healthcare services and (v) federal and state privacy laws, including the privacy and security rules contained in the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1997, which provide for the privacy and security of personal health information. violations of healthcare fraud and abuse laws carry 11 table of contents civil, criminal and administrative sanctions, including punitive sanctions, monetary penalties, imprisonment, denial of medicare and medicaid reimbursement and potential exclusion from medicare, medicaid or other federal or state healthcare programs. these laws are enforced by a variety of federal, state and local agencies and can also be enforced by private litigants through, among other things, federal and state false claims acts, which allow private litigants to bring qui tam or "whistleblower" actions. many of our operators and tenants are subject to these laws, and some of them may in the future become the subject of governmental enforcement actions if they fail to comply with applicable laws. reimbursement sources of revenue for many of our tenants and operators include, among other sources, governmental healthcare programs, such as the federal medicare program and state medicaid programs, and non-governmental payors, such as insurance carriers and health maintenance organizations. as federal and state governments focus on healthcare reform initiatives, and as many states face significant budget deficits, efforts to reduce costs by these payors will likely continue, which may result in reduced or slower growth in reimbursement for certain services provided by some of our tenants and operators. healthcare licensure and certificate of need certain healthcare facilities in our portfolio are subject to extensive federal, state and local licensure, certification and inspection laws and regulations. in addition, various licenses and permits are required to dispense narcotics, operate pharmacies, handle radioactive materials and operate equipment. many states require certain healthcare providers to obtain a certificate of need, which requires prior approval for the construction, expansion and closure of certain healthcare facilities. the approval process related to state certificate of need laws may impact some of our tenants' and operators' abilities to expand or change their businesses. life science facilities while certain of our life science tenants include some well-established companies, other such tenants are less established and, in some cases, may not yet have a product approved by the food and drug administration or other regulatory authorities for commercial sale. creating a new pharmaceutical product requires significant investments of time and money, in part, because of the extensive regulation of the healthcare industry; it also entails considerable risk of failure in demonstrating that the product is safe and effective and in gaining regulatory approval and market acceptance. senior housing entrance fee communities certain of the senior housing facilities mortgaged to or owned by us are operated as entrance fee communities. generally, an entrance fee is an upfront fee or consideration paid by a resident, a portion of which may be refundable, in exchange for some form of long-term benefit. some of the entrance fee communities are subject to significant state regulatory oversight, including, for example, oversight of each facility's financial condition, establishment and monitoring of reserve requirements and other financial restrictions, the right of residents to cancel their contracts within a specified period of time, lien rights in favor of the residents, restrictions on change of ownership and similar matters. 12 table of contents americans with disabilities act (the "ada") our properties must comply with the ada and any similar state or local laws to the extent that such properties are "public accommodations" as defined in those statutes. the ada may require removal of barriers to access by persons with disabilities in certain public areas of our properties where such removal is readily achievable. should barriers to access by persons with disabilities be discovered at any of our properties, we may be directly or indirectly responsible for additional costs that may be required to make facilities ada-compliant. noncompliance with the ada could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. the obligation to make readily achievable accommodations pursuant to the ada is an ongoing one, and we continue to assess our properties and make modifications as appropriate in this respect. environmental matters a wide variety of federal, state and local environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations affect healthcare facility operations. these complex federal and state statutes, and their enforcement, involve myriad regulations, many of which involve strict liability on the part of the potential offender. some of these federal and state statutes may directly impact us. under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner of real property or a secured lender, such as us, may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances at, under or disposed of in connection with such property, as well as other potential costs relating to hazardous or toxic substances (including government fines and damages for injuries to persons and adjacent property). the cost of any required remediation, removal, fines or personal or property damages and the owner's or secured lender's liability therefore could exceed or impair the value of the property, and/or the assets of the owner or secured lender. in addition, the presence of such substances, or the failure to properly dispose of or remediate such substances, may adversely affect the owner's ability to sell or rent such property or to borrow using such property as collateral which, in turn, could reduce our revenues. for a description of the risks associated with environmental matters, see "risk factors" in item 1a of this report. 13 table of contents item 1a. risk factors before deciding whether to invest in us, you should carefully consider the risks described below as well as the risks described elsewhere in this report, which risks are incorporated by reference into this section. the risks and uncertainties described herein are not the only ones facing us and there may be additional risks that we do not presently know of or that we currently consider not likely to have a significant impact on us. all of these risks could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. as the owner of healthcare and other real estate facilities, we are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. certain of these risks and uncertainties are generally associated directly with the business of owning and leasing real estate, but others are associated with our specific business model or other attributes of ours. for example, as described elsewhere in this report, most of our properties are operated by and/or leased to third parties. accordingly, adverse developments with respect to these third parties may materially adversely affect us. in addition, we operate in a manner intended to allow us to qualify as a reit, which involves the application of highly technical and complex laws and regulations. we believe that the risks facing our company generally fall into the following four categories: risks related to hcp; risks related to our operators and tenants; risks related to tax matters including reit-related risks; and risks related to our organizational structure. risks related to hcp the continuation of volatility in the financial markets may impair our ability to raise capital, obtain new financing or refinance existing obligations and fund real estate and development activities, all of which may negatively impact our operating results and financial condition . the global financial markets have undergone and may continue to experience pervasive and fundamental disruptions. the continuation of this volatility may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. among other things, the capital markets have experienced and may continue to see extreme pricing volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions, all of which may contribute further to downward pressure on stock prices, widening credit spreads on prospective debt financing and declines in the market values of u.s. and foreign stock exchanges. while the capital markets have recently shown signs of improvement, the sustainability of an economic recovery is uncertain and additional levels of market disruption and volatility could impact our ability to obtain new financing or refinance our existing obligations as they mature. market volatility could also lead to significant uncertainty in the valuation of our investments and those of our joint ventures, that may result in a substantial decrease in the value of our properties and those of our joint ventures. as a result, we may not be able to recover the carrying amount of such investments and the associated goodwill, if any, which may require us to recognize impairment charges in earnings. we rely on external sources of capital to fund future capital needs and if our access to such capital is limited or on unfavorable terms, we may not be able to meet commitments as they become due or make future investments necessary to grow our business. in order to qualify as a reit under the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the "code") and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax, we are generally required, among other things, to distribute to our stockholders each year at least 90% of our "real estate investment trust taxable income" (computed without regard to the dividends paid deduction and net capital gains). under 14 table of contents recent internal revenue service guidance, up to 90% of any taxable dividend with respect to calendar years 2008 through 2011, and in some cases dividends declared as late as december 31, 2012, could be payable in hcp, inc. stock if certain conditions are satisfied. we may not be able to fund, from cash retained from operations, all future capital needs, including capital needs in connection with acquisitions and development activities. if we are unable to obtain needed capital at all or only on unfavorable terms from these sources, we might not be able to make the investments needed to grow our business and to meet our obligations and commitments as they mature. as a result, we rely on external sources of capital, including debt and equity financing, to fulfill our capital requirements. our access to capital depends upon a number of factors, some of which we have little or no control over, including but not limited to: general availability of credit and market conditions, including rising interest rates and increased borrowing cost; the market price of the shares of our equity securities and the ratings of our debt and preferred securities; the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions; our degree of financial leverage and operational flexibility; financial deterioration of our lenders that might impair their ability to meet their commitments to us or their willingness to make additional loans to us, and our inability to replace the financing commitment of any such lender on favorable terms, or at all; the stability in the market value of our properties; the financial performance of our operators, tenants and borrowers; and issues facing the healthcare industry, including healthcare reform and changes in government reimbursement policies. if our access to capital is limited by these or other factors, it could have an impact on our ability to refinance our debt obligations, fund dividend payments, acquire properties and fund operations and development activities. there is no assurance that we will make distributions in the future. we intend to continue to pay quarterly distributions to our stockholders consistent with our historical practice. however, our ability to pay distributions may be adversely affected if any of the risks herein occur. all distributions are made at the discretion of the board of directors and our future distributions will depend upon a number of factors, including our earnings, our current and anticipated cash available for distribution, our financial condition, maintenance of our reit tax status and such other factors as our board of directors may from time to time deem relevant. there can be no assurance of our ability to pay distributions in the future and any reduction in distributions to our stockholders may negatively impact our stock price. adverse changes in our credit ratings could impair our ability to obtain additional debt and preferred stock financing on favorable terms, if at all, and significantly reduce the market price of our securities, including our common stock. we currently have a credit rating of baa3 (stable) from moody's investors service ("moody's"), bbb (stable) from standard &amp; poor's ratings service ("s&amp;p") and bbb (positive) from fitch ratings ("fitch") on our senior unsecured debt securities, and ba1 (stable) from moody's, bb+ (stable) from s&amp;p and bb+ (positive) from fitch on our preferred equity securities. the credit ratings of our senior unsecured debt and preferred equity securities are based on our operating performance, liquidity and 15 table of contents leverage ratios, overall financial position and other factors employed by the credit rating agencies in their rating analyses of us. our credit ratings can affect the amount and type of capital we can access, as well as the terms of any financings we may obtain. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings and in the event that our current credit ratings deteriorate, we would likely incur higher borrowing costs and it may be more difficult or expensive to obtain additional financing or refinance existing obligations and commitments. also, a downgrade in our credit ratings would trigger additional costs or other potentially negative consequences under our current and future credit facilities and debt instruments. our level of indebtedness could materially adversely affect us in many ways, including reducing funds available for other business purposes and reducing our operational flexibility. our indebtedness as of december 31, 2009 was approximately $5.7 billion. we may incur additional indebtedness in the future, including in connection with the development or acquisition of assets, which may be substantial. any significant additional indebtedness could negatively affect the credit ratings of our debt and preferred equity securities and require a substantial portion of our cash flow to make interest and principal payments due on our indebtedness. greater demands on our cash resources may reduce funds available to us to pay dividends, conduct development activities, make capital expenditures and acquisitions, or carry out other aspects of our business strategy. increased indebtedness can also limit our ability to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions, make us more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions and create competitive disadvantages for us compared to other companies with relatively lower debt levels. increased future debt service obligations may limit our operational flexibility, including our ability to finance or refinance our properties, contribute properties to joint ventures or sell properties as needed. covenants in our existing and future credit agreements and other debt instruments limit our operational flexibility, and a covenant breach or a default could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. the terms of our credit agreements and other indebtedness, including additional credit agreements or amendments we may enter into and other indebtedness we may incur in the future, require or will require us to comply with a number of customary financial and other covenants, such as maintaining certain levels of debt service coverage, leverage ratio and tangible net worth requirements. our continued ability to incur indebtedness and operate in general is subject to compliance with these financial and other covenants, which limit our operational flexibility. for example, mortgages on our properties contain customary covenants such as those that limit or restrict our ability, without the consent of the lender, to further encumber or sell the applicable properties, or to replace the applicable tenant or operator. breaches of certain covenants may result in defaults under the mortgages on our properties and cross-defaults under certain of our other indebtedness, even if we satisfy our payment obligations to the respective obligee. in addition, defaults under the leases or operating agreements related to mortgaged properties, including defaults associated with the bankruptcy of the applicable tenant or operator, may result in a default under the underlying mortgage and cross-defaults under certain of our other indebtedness. covenants that limit our operational flexibility as well as defaults under our debt instruments could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. an increase in interest rates would increase our interest costs on our existing variable rate debt and could increase interest cost on new debt, and could adversely impact our ability to refinance existing debt, sell assets and limit our acquisition and development activities. if interest rates increase, so could our interest costs for any new debt. this increased cost could make the financing of any acquisition and development activity more costly. we may incur more 16 table of contents variable interest rate indebtedness in the future. rising interest rates could limit our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures, or cause us to pay higher interest rates upon refinancing and increase interest expense on refinanced indebtedness. in addition, an increase in interest rates could decrease the amount third parties are willing to pay for our assets, thereby limiting our ability to reposition our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. unfavorable resolution of pending and future litigation matters and disputes, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. from time to time, we may be directly involved in a number of legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims. see "legal proceedings" in part i, item 3 in this report for a discussion of certain legal proceedings in which we are involved. we may also be named as defendants in lawsuits allegedly arising out of actions of our operators and tenants in which such operators and tenants have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with their respective businesses. see "risks related to our operators and tenants our operators and tenants are faced with litigation and may experience rising liability and insurance costs that may affect their ability to make their lease or mortgage payments ." an unfavorable resolution of pending or future litigation may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. regardless of its outcome, litigation may result in substantial costs and expenses and significantly divert the attention of management. there can be no assurance that we will be able to prevail in, or achieve a favorable settlement of, pending or future litigation. in addition, pending litigation or future litigation, government proceedings or environmental matters could lead to increased costs or interruption of our normal business operations. a small number of operators and tenants, some of whom are experiencing significant legal, financial and regulatory difficulties, account for a large percentage of our revenues. during the year ended december 31, 2009, approximately 30% of our total revenues are generated by our leasing or financial arrangements with the following four companies: sunrise 11%; hcr manorcare 7%; brookdale 6%; and hca 6%. certain of these companies are experiencing significant legal, financial and regulatory difficulties. among other things, sunrise has disclosed that as of september 30, 2009, it has no borrowing availability under its bank credit facility, has significant scheduled debt maturities in 2009 and 2010 and significant long-term debt that is in default. while we periodically evaluate the creditworthiness of our operators, tenants and borrowers, there can be no assurance that our operators, tenants or borrowers will be able to meet their obligations to us. the failure or inability of these operators, tenants or borrowers to meet their obligations to us could materially reduce our cash flow as well as our results of operations, which could in turn reduce the amount of dividends we pay, cause our stock price to decline and have other material adverse effects. see "risks related to our operators and tenants the bankruptcy, insolvency or financial deterioration of one or more of our major operators or tenants may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition " for additional information on the risks we face from a failure of one or more of our operators or tenants. we have investments in mezzanine loans, which are subject to a greater risk of loss than loans secured by the underlying real estate. at december 31, 2009, we had mezzanine loan investments with a carrying value of $934 million. our mezzanine loans generally take the form of subordinated loans secured by a pledge of ownership interests in either the entity owning the property or a pledge of the ownership interests in the entity that owns, directly or through other entities, the interest in the entities owning the properties. these types of investments involve a higher degree of risk than long-term senior mortgage loans secured by income producing real property because the investment may have a lesser likelihood of being repaid in 17 table of contents full as a result of foreclosure by the senior lender. in the event of a bankruptcy of the entity providing the pledge of its ownership interests as security, we may not have full recourse to the assets of such entity, or the assets of the entity may not be sufficient to fully repay our mezzanine loans. if a borrower defaults on our mezzanine loans or debt senior to our loans, or in the event of a borrower bankruptcy, our mezzanine loans will be satisfied only after the senior debt is paid and consistent with bankruptcy rules. as a result, we may not recover some or all of our investment. in addition, mezzanine loans may have higher loan-to-value ratios than conventional mortgage loans, resulting in less equity in the property and increasing the risk of loss of principal. if our mezzanine loans are not repaid, or are only partially repaid, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. we may be unable to successfully foreclose on the collateral securing our real estate-related loans, and even if we are successful in our foreclosure efforts, we may be unable to successfully operate or occupy the underlying real estate, which may adversely affect our ability to recover our investments. if an operator or tenant defaults under one of our mortgages or mezzanine loans, we may have to foreclose on the loan or protect our interest by acquiring title to the collateral. in some cases, as noted above, the collateral consists of the equity interests in an entity that directly or indirectly owns the applicable real property and, accordingly, we may not have full recourse to assets of that entity. operators, tenants or borrowers may contest enforcement of foreclosure or other remedies, seek bankruptcy protection against our exercise of enforcement or other remedies and/or bring claims for lender liability in response to actions to enforce mortgage obligations. foreclosure-related costs, high loan-to-value ratios or declines in the value of the facility may prevent us from realizing an amount equal to our mortgage or mezzanine loan upon foreclosure. even if we are able to successfully foreclose on the collateral securing our real estate-related loans, we may inherit properties for which we may be unable to expeditiously seek tenants or operators, if at all, which would adversely affect our ability to fully recover our investment. required regulatory approvals can delay or prohibit transfers of our healthcare facilities. transfers of healthcare facilities to successor tenants or operators may be subject to regulatory approvals, including change of ownership approvals under certificate of need laws and medicare and medicaid provider arrangements, that are not required for transfers of other types of commercial operations and other types of real estate. the replacement of any tenant or operator could be delayed by the regulatory approval process of any federal, state or local government agency necessary for the transfer of the facility or the replacement of the operator licensed to manage the facility. if we are unable to find a suitable replacement tenant or operator upon favorable terms, or at all, we may take possession of a facility, which might expose us to successor liability or require us to indemnify subsequent operators to whom we might transfer the operating rights and licenses, all of which may adversely affect our revenues and operations. we may not be able to sell properties when we desire because real estate investments are relatively illiquid. real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly. in addition, some of our properties serve as collateral for our secured debt obligations and cannot be readily sold. we may not be able to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changes in the real estate market. a downturn in the real estate market could adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to sell such properties for a price or on terms acceptable to us. we also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property or portfolio of properties. in addition, there are provisions under the federal income tax laws applicable to reits that may limit our ability to recognize the full economic benefit from a sale of our assets. these factors and any others that would impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 18 table of contents real estate is a competitive business and this competition may make it difficult to identify and purchase, or develop, suitable healthcare and other facilities, to grow our operations through these activities or to successfully reinvest proceeds. we operate in a highly competitive industry. we face competition from other reits, investment companies, private equity and hedge fund investors, sovereign funds, healthcare operators, lenders, developers and other institutional investors, some of whom may have greater resources and lower costs of capital than us. increased competition makes it more challenging for us to identify and successfully capitalize on opportunities that meet our business goals. if we cannot capitalize on our development pipeline, identify and purchase a sufficient quantity of healthcare facilities at favorable prices, or reinvest proceeds on a timely basis, or if we are unable to finance acquisitions on commercially favorable terms, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. because of the unique and specific improvements required for healthcare facilities, we may be required to incur substantial development and renovation costs to make certain of our properties suitable for other operators and tenants, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. healthcare facilities are typically highly customized and may not be easily adapted to non-healthcare-related uses. the improvements generally required to conform a property to healthcare use, such as upgrading electrical, gas and plumbing infrastructure, are costly and at times tenant-specific. a new or replacement operator or tenant may require different features in a property, depending on that operator's or tenant's particular operations. if a current operator or tenant is unable to pay rent and vacates a property, we may incur substantial expenditures to modify a property before we are able to secure another operator or tenant. also, if the property needs to be renovated to accommodate multiple operators or tenants, we may incur substantial expenditures before we are able to re-lease the space. these expenditures or renovations may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we face additional risks associated with property development that can render a project less profitable or not profitable at all and, under certain circumstances, prevent completion of development activities once undertaken, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. large-scale, ground-up development of healthcare properties presents additional risks for us, including risks that: a development opportunity may be abandoned after expending significant resources resulting in the loss of deposits or failure to recover expenses already incurred; the development and construction costs of a project may exceed original estimates due to increased interest rates and higher materials, transportation, labor, leasing or other costs, which could make the completion of the development project less profitable; construction and/or permanent financing may not be available on favorable terms or at all; the project may not be completed on schedule, which can result in increases in construction costs and debt service expenses as a result of a variety of factors that are beyond our control, including: natural disasters, labor conditions, material shortages, regulatory hurdles, civil unrest and acts of war; and occupancy rates and rents at a newly completed property may not meet expected levels and could be insufficient to make the property profitable. 19 table of contents these risks could result in substantial unanticipated delays or expenses and, under certain circumstances, could prevent completion of development activities once undertaken, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our use of joint ventures may limit our flexibility with jointly owned investments and could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we intend to develop and/or acquire properties in joint ventures with other persons or entities when circumstances warrant the use of these structures. our participation in joint ventures is subject to risks that: we could experience an impasse on certain decisions because we do not have sole decision-making authority, which could require us to expend additional resources on resolving such impasses or potential disputes; our joint venture partners could have investment goals that are not consistent with our investment objectives, including the timing, terms and strategies for any investments; our joint venture partners might become bankrupt, fail to fund their share of required capital contributions or fail to fulfill their obligations as a joint venture partner, which may require us to infuse our own capital into the venture on behalf of the partner despite other competing uses for such capital; and our joint venture partners may have competing interests in our markets that could create conflict of interest issues. from time to time, we acquire other companies and need to integrate them into our existing business. if we are unable to successfully integrate the operations of acquired companies or they fail to perform as expected, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. acquisitions require the integration of companies that have previously operated independently. successful integration of the operations of these companies depends primarily on our ability to consolidate operations, systems, procedures, properties and personnel and to eliminate redundancies and costs. we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to integrate the operations of the companies that we have acquired, or may acquire in the future, without encountering difficulties. potential difficulties associated with acquisitions include the loss of key employees, the disruption of our ongoing business or that of the acquired entity, possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies and the assumption of unexpected liabilities. estimated cost savings in connection with acquisitions are typically projected to come from various areas that our management identifies through the due diligence and integration planning process; yet, our target companies and their properties may fail to perform as expected. inaccurate assumptions regarding future rental or occupancy rates could result in overly optimistic estimates of future revenues. similarly, we may underestimate future operating expenses or the costs necessary to bring properties up to standards established for their intended use. if we have difficulties with any of these areas, or if we later discover additional liabilities or experience unforeseen costs relating to our acquired companies, we might not achieve the economic benefits we expect from our acquisitions, and this may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to significant corporate regulation as a public company and failure to comply with all applicable regulations could subject us to liability and negatively impact our stock price. we are subject to significant regulation, including the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. while we have developed corporate governance and compliance initiatives based on what we believe are the current best practices and periodically evaluate such initiatives in response to newly implemented or changing 20 table of contents regulatory requirements, we cannot provide assurance that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable corporate regulations. for example, we are required to provide a report by management on internal control over financial reporting pursuant to the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, including management's assessment of the effectiveness of such control. changes to our business will necessitate ongoing changes to our internal control systems and processes. internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely harmed, we could fail to meet our reporting obligations and there could be a material adverse effect on our stock price. loss of our key personnel could temporarily disrupt our operations and adversely affect us. we are dependent on the efforts of our executive officers. although our chief executive officer has an employment agreement with us, we cannot assure you that he will remain employed with us. the loss or limited availability of the services of our chief executive officer or any of our executive officers, or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could, at least temporarily, have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and be negatively perceived in the capital markets. we may experience uninsured or underinsured losses, which could result in a significant loss of the capital we have invested in a property, decrease anticipated future revenues or cause us to incur unanticipated expense. we maintain comprehensive insurance coverage on our properties with terms, conditions, limits and deductibles that we believe are adequate and appropriate given the relative risk and costs of such coverage. however, a large number of our properties are located in areas exposed to earthquake, windstorm and flood and may be subject to other losses. in particular, our life science portfolio is concentrated in areas known to be subject to earthquake activity. while we purchase insurance for earthquake, windstorm and flood that we believe is adequate in light of current industry practice and analysis prepared by outside consultants, there is no assurance that such insurance will fully cover such losses. these losses can decrease our anticipated revenues from a property and result in the loss of all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property. the insurance market for such exposures can be very volatile and we may be unable to purchase the limits and terms we desire on a commercially reasonable basis in the future. in addition, there are certain exposures where insurance is not purchased as we do not believe it is economically feasible to do so or where there is no viable insurance market. environmental compliance costs and liabilities associated with our real estate related investments may materially impair the value of those investments. under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, as a current or previous owner of real estate, we may be required to investigate and clean up certain hazardous substances released at a property, and may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage and for investigation and cleanup costs incurred by the third parties in connection with the contamination. in addition, some environmental laws create a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and the costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. although we (i) currently carry environmental insurance on our properties in an amount and subject to deductibles that we believe are commercially reasonable, and (ii) generally require our operators and tenants to 21 table of contents undertake to indemnify us for environmental liabilities they cause, such liabilities could exceed the amount of our insurance, the financial ability of the tenant or operator to indemnify us or the value of the contaminated property. the presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. as the owner of a site, we may also be held liable under common law to third parties for damages and injuries resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the site. we may also experience environmental liabilities arising from conditions not known to us. risks related to our operators and tenants the bankruptcy, insolvency or financial deterioration of one or more of our major operators or tenants may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we lease our properties directly to operators in most cases, and in certain other cases, we lease to third-party tenants who enter into long-term management agreements with operators to manage the properties. although our leases, financing arrangements and other agreements with our tenants and operators generally provide us the right under specified circumstances to terminate a lease, evict an operator or tenant, or demand immediate repayment of certain obligations to us, the bankruptcy laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization that may render certain of these remedies unenforceable, or at the least, delay our ability to pursue such remedies. for example, we cannot evict a tenant or operator solely because of its bankruptcy filing. a debtor has the right to assume, or to assume and assign to a third party, or reject its unexpired contracts in a bankruptcy proceeding. if a debtor were to reject its leases with us, our claim against the debtor for unpaid and future rents would be limited by the statutory cap set forth in the u.s. bankruptcy code, which may be substantially less than the remaining rent actually owed under the lease. in addition, the inability of our tenants or operators to make payments or comply with certain other lease obligations may affect our compliance with certain covenants contained in the mortgages on the properties leased or managed by such tenants and operators. moreover, if certain tenants or operators who lease or manage our mortgaged properties were to file for bankruptcy protection, such action may result in a default under the underlying mortgage and cross-defaults under our other indebtedness. although we believe that we would be able to secure amendments under the applicable agreements in those circumstances, the bankruptcy of an applicable operator or tenant may potentially result in less favorable borrowing terms than currently available, delays in the availability of funding or other material adverse consequences. many of our operating leases also contain non-contingent rent escalators for which we recognize income on a straight-line basis over the lease term. this method results in rental income in the early years of a lease being higher than actual cash received, creating a straight-line rent receivable asset included in the caption "other assets, net" on our consolidated balance sheets. at some point during the lease, depending on its terms, the cash rent payments eventually exceed the straight-line rent which results in the straight-line rent receivable asset decreasing to zero over the remainder of the lease term. we assess the collectibility of the straight-line rent that is expected to be collected in a future period, and, depending on circumstances, we may provide a reserve against the previously recognized straight-line rent receivable asset for a portion, up to its full value, that we estimate may not be recoverable. in addition, upon acquisition of a leased property that we account for as an operating lease, we may record lease-related intangible assets. the balance of straight-line rent receivable at december 31, 2009, net of allowances was $159 million. we had approximately $390 million of lease-related intangible assets, net of amortization, and $200 million of lease-related intangible liabilities, net of amortization, associated with our operating leases at december 31, 2009. to the extent any of the operators or tenants for our properties, for the reasons discussed above, become unable to pay amounts due, we may be required to impair the carrying values of the straight-line rents receivable or lease intangibles or may impair the related carrying value of leased properties. 22 table of contents the current u.s. housing market may adversely affect our operators' and tenants' ability to increase or maintain occupancy levels at, and rental income from, our senior housing facilities. our tenants and operators may have relatively flat or declining occupancy levels in the near-term due to falling home prices, declining incomes, stagnant home sales and other economic factors. seniors may choose to postpone their plans to move into senior housing facilities rather than sell their homes at a loss, or for a profit below their expectations. moreover, tightening lending standards have made it more difficult for potential buyers to obtain mortgage financing, all of which have contributed to the declining home sales. in addition, the senior housing segment may continue to experience a decline in occupancy associated with private pay residents choosing to move out of the facilities to be cared for at home by relatives due to the weak economy. a material decline in our tenants' and operators' occupancy levels and revenues may make it more difficult for them to meet their financial obligations to us, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. operators and tenants that fail to comply with the requirements of governmental reimbursement programs such as medicare or medicaid, licensing and certification requirements, fraud and abuse regulations or new legislative developments may cease to operate or be unable to meet their financial and contractual obligations to us. certain of our operators and tenants are affected by an extremely complex set of federal, state and local laws and regulations that are subject to frequent and substantial changes (sometimes applied retroactively) resulting from legislation, adoption of rules and regulations, and administrative and judicial interpretations of existing law. see "item 1 business government regulation, licensing and enforcement" above. for example, to the extent that any of our operators or tenants receive a significant portion of their revenues from governmental payors, primarily medicare and medicaid, such revenues may be subject to statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive rate adjustments, recovery of program overpayments or set-offs, administrative rulings, policy interpretations, payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries or carriers, government funding restrictions (at a program level or with respect to specific facilities) and interruption or delays in payments due to any ongoing governmental investigations and audits at such property. in recent years, governmental payors have frozen or reduced payments to healthcare providers due to budgetary pressures. healthcare reimbursement will likely continue to be of significant importance to federal and state authorities. we cannot make any assessment as to the ultimate timing or the effect that any future legislative reforms may have on our operators' and tenants' costs of doing business and on the amount of reimbursement by government and other third-party payors. the failure of any of our operators or tenants to comply with these laws, requirements and regulations could adversely affect their ability to meet their financial and contractual obligations to us. certain of our operators and tenants are also generally subject to extensive federal, state and local licensure, certification and inspection laws and regulations. our operators' or tenants' failure to comply with any of these laws could result in loss of accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension or decertification from federal and state healthcare programs, loss of license or closure of the facility. for example, certain of our properties may require a license and/or certificate of need to operate. failure of any operator or tenant to obtain a license or certificate of need, or loss of a required license or certificate of need, would prevent a facility from operating in the manner intended by such operator or tenant. additionally, failure of our operators and tenants to generally comply with applicable laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on facilities owned by or mortgaged to us, and therefore may adversely impact us. see "item 1 business government regulation, licensing and enforcement healthcare licensure and certificate of need" above. legislative proposals are introduced or proposed in congress and in some state legislatures each year that would affect major changes in the healthcare system, either nationally or at the state level. for example, congress is currently considering comprehensive legislation that could make significant 23 table of contents changes to the u.s. healthcare system. we cannot accurately predict whether any proposals will be adopted or, if adopted, what effect, if any, these proposals would have on our operators and tenants and, thus, our business. increased competition as well as increased operating costs have resulted in lower net revenues for some of our operators and tenants and may affect their ability to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us. the healthcare industry is highly competitive and can become more competitive in the future. the occupancy levels at, and rental income from, our facilities is dependent on the ability of our operators and tenants to compete with entities that have substantial capital resources. these entities compete with other operators and tenants on a number of different levels, including: the quality of care provided, reputation, the physical appearance of a facility, price, the range of services offered, family preference, alternatives for healthcare delivery, the supply of competing properties, physicians, staff, referral sources, location, and the size and demographics of the population in the surrounding area. private, federal and state payment programs and the effect of laws and regulations may also have a significant influence on the profitability of the properties and their tenants. our operators and tenants also compete with numerous other companies providing similar healthcare services or alternatives such as home health agencies, life care at home, community-based service programs, retirement communities and convalescent centers. such competition, which has intensified due to overbuilding in some segments in which we invest, has caused the fill-up rate of newly constructed buildings to slow and the monthly rate that many newly built and previously existing facilities were able to obtain for their services to decrease. we cannot be certain that the operators and tenants of all of our facilities will be able to achieve occupancy and rate levels that will enable them to meet all of their obligations to us. further, many competing companies may have resources and attributes that are superior to those of our operators and tenants. thus, our operators and tenants may encounter increased competition in the future that could limit their ability to attract residents or expand their businesses which could materially adversely affect their ability to meet their financial and other contractual obligation to us, potentially decreasing our revenues and increasing our collection and dispute costs. our operators and tenants may not procure the necessary insurance to adequately insure against losses. our leases generally require our tenants and operators to secure and maintain comprehensive liability and property insurance that covers us, as well as the tenants and operators. some types of losses may not be adequately insured by our tenants and operators. should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could incur liability or lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenues from the property. in such an event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. we continually review the insurance maintained by our tenants and operators. however, we cannot assure you that material uninsured losses, or losses in excess of insurance proceeds, will not occur in the future. our operators and tenants are faced with litigation and may experience rising liability and insurance costs that may affect their ability to make their lease or mortgage payments. in some states, advocacy groups have been created to monitor the quality of care at healthcare facilities and these groups have brought litigation against the operators and tenants of such facilities. also, in several instances, private litigation by patients has succeeded in winning large damage awards for alleged abuses. the effect of this litigation and other potential litigation may materially increase the costs incurred by our operators and tenants for monitoring and reporting quality of care compliance. in addition, their cost of liability and medical malpractice insurance can be significant and may increase so long as the present healthcare litigation environment continues. cost increases could cause our 24 table of contents operators to be unable to make their lease or mortgage payments or fail to purchase the appropriate liability and malpractice insurance, potentially decreasing our revenues and increasing our collection and litigation costs. moreover, to the extent we are required to take back the affected facilities from our operators and tenants, our revenues from those facilities could be reduced or eliminated for an extended period of time. in addition, as a result of our ownership of healthcare facilities, we may be named as a defendant in lawsuits allegedly arising from the actions of our operators or tenants, which may require unanticipated expenditures on our part. our tenants in the life science industry face high levels of regulation, expense and uncertainty that may adversely affect their ability to make payments to us and, consequently, may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. life science tenants, particularly those involved in developing and marketing pharmaceutical products, are subject to certain unique risks, as follows: some of our tenants require significant outlays of funds for the research, development and clinical testing of their products and technologies. if private investors, the government or other sources of funding are unavailable to support such activities, a tenant's business may be adversely affected or fail. the research, development, clinical testing, manufacture and marketing of some of our tenants' products require federal, state and foreign regulatory approvals. the approval process is typically long, expensive and uncertain. even if our tenants have sufficient funds to seek approvals, one or all of their products may fail to obtain the required regulatory approvals on a timely basis or at all. furthermore, some tenants may only have a small number of products under development. if one product fails to receive the required approvals at any stage of development, it could significantly adversely affect our tenant's entire business and its ability to make payments to us. even after a life science tenant gains regulatory approval and market acceptance, the product may still present significant regulatory and liability risks. such risks may include, among others, the possible later discovery of safety concerns, competition from new products, and ultimately the expiration of patent protection for the product. these factors may have an adverse effect on the operations and financial condition of our life science tenants and therefore may adversely impact us. our tenants with marketable products may be adversely affected by healthcare reform and the reimbursement policies of government or private healthcare payors. our tenants may be unable to adequately protect their intellectual property under patent, copyright or trade secret laws. failure to do so could jeopardize their ability to profit from their efforts and to protect their products from competition. we cannot assure you that our life science tenants will be successful in their businesses. if our tenants' businesses are adversely affected, they may have difficulty making payments to us, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. tax and reit-related risks loss of hcp, inc.'s tax status as a reit would substantially reduce our available funds and would have material adverse consequences to us. commencing with its taxable year ended december 31, 1985, hcp, inc. has operated in a manner that is intended to allow it to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes under the code. in addition, as described below, we own the stock of hcp life science reit, inc. ("hcp life science 25 table of contents reit") which elected to be treated as a reit commencing with its initial taxable year ended december 31, 2007. qualification as a reit involves the application of highly technical and complex code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect the ability of hcp, inc. and hcp life science reit to qualify as reits. if hcp life science reit were to fail to qualify as a reit, hcp, inc. also would fail to qualify as a reit unless hcp, inc. (or hcp life science reit) could make use of certain relief provisions provided under the code. to qualify as reits, hcp, inc. and hcp life science reit must each satisfy a number of organizational, operational, stockholder ownership, dividend distribution, asset, income and other requirements. for example, to qualify as a reit, at least 95% of hcp, inc.'s gross income in any year must be derived from qualifying sources, and hcp, inc. must make distributions to its stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of its reit taxable income, excluding net capital gains. in addition, new legislation, treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may adversely affect our investors if such future events affected hcp, inc.'s ability to qualify as a reit for tax purposes. although we believe that hcp, inc. and hcp life science reit have been organized and have operated in such manner, we can give no assurance that hcp, inc. or hcp life science reit have qualified or will continue to qualify as a reit for tax purposes. if hcp, inc. loses its reit status, we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available to make payments of principal and interest on the debt securities we issue and to make distributions to stockholders. if hcp, inc. fails to qualify as a reit: it would not be allowed an income tax deduction for dividends distributed to stockholders and would be subject to federal and state income tax at regular corporate rates or alternative minimum tax rates; it could also be subject to increased local income taxes; and unless hcp, inc. is entitled to relief under statutory provisions, it could not elect to be subject to tax as a reit for four taxable years following the year for which it was disqualified. in addition, if hcp, inc. fails to qualify as a reit, it would not be required to make distributions to stockholders; however, all distributions to stockholders would be subject to tax as qualifying corporate dividends to the extent of hcp, inc.'s current and accumulated earnings and profits. as a result of all these factors, hcp, inc.'s failure to qualify as a reit also could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and could materially adversely affect the value of our common stock. certain property transfers may generate prohibited transaction income, resulting in a penalty tax on gain attributable to the transaction. from time to time, we may transfer or otherwise dispose of some of our properties. under the code, any gain resulting from transfers of properties that we hold as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business would be treated as income from a prohibited transaction subject to a 100% penalty tax. since we acquire properties for investment purposes, we do not believe that our occasional transfers or disposals of property are properly treated as prohibited transactions. however, whether property is held for investment purposes is a question of fact that depends on all the facts and circumstances surrounding the particular transaction. the internal revenue service may contend that certain transfers or disposals of properties by us are prohibited transactions. while we believe that the internal revenue service would not prevail in any such dispute, if the internal revenue service were to argue successfully that a transfer or disposition of property constituted a prohibited transaction, then we would be required to pay a 100% penalty tax on any gain from the 26 table of contents prohibited transaction. in addition, income from a prohibited transaction might adversely affect our ability to satisfy the income tests for qualification as a reit for federal income tax purposes. to maintain our reit status, we may be forced to borrow funds on a short-term basis during unfavorable market conditions. to qualify as a reit, each year we must distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our "real estate investment trust taxable income" (computed without regard to our dividends paid deduction and our net capital gain). if we distribute less than 100% of our reit taxable income in any year, we will be subject to regular corporate income taxes. in addition, we will be subject to a 4% excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions paid by us in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. to maintain our reit status and avoid the payment of income and excise taxes, we may need to borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the reit distribution requirements even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings. these short-term borrowing needs could result from differences in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for federal income tax purposes, or the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt principal payments. we may in the future choose to pay dividends in our own stock, in which case you may be required to pay tax in excess of the cash you receive. we may distribute taxable dividends that are partially payable in cash and partially payable in hcp, inc. stock. under recent internal revenue service guidance, up to 90% of any such taxable dividend with respect to calendar years 2008 through 2011, including in some cases dividends declared as late as december 31, 2012, could be payable in hcp, inc. stock if certain conditions are satisfied. taxable stockholders receiving such dividends will be required to include the full amount of the dividend as income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits for united states federal income tax purposes. as a result, a u.s. stockholder may be required to pay tax with respect to such dividends in excess of the cash received. if a u.s. stockholder sells the stock it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of hcp, inc. stock at the time of the sale. furthermore, with respect to non-u.s. stockholders, we may be required to withhold u.s. tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in stock. in addition, if a significant number of our stockholders sell shares of stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, such sales may put downward pressure on the trading price of our stock. as a result of the acquisition of slough estates usa, inc. ("seusa"), hcp life science reit may have inherited tax liabilities and attributes from seusa. hcp life science reit is the successor to the tax attributes, including tax basis, and earnings and profits, if any, of seusa. if hcp life science reit recognizes gain on the disposition of any properties formerly owned by seusa during the ten-year period beginning on the date on which it acquired the seusa stock, it will be required to pay tax at the highest regular corporate tax rate on such gain to the extent of the excess of (a) the fair market value of the asset over (b) its adjusted basis in the asset, in each case determined as of the date on which it acquired the seusa stock. any taxes paid by hcp life science reit would reduce the amount available for distribution by hcp life science reit to us. 27 table of contents as a result of the cnl retirement properties, inc. ("crp") merger and the cnl retirement corp. ("crc") merger, we may have inherited tax liabilities and attributes from crp and crc. in connection with the crp merger, crp's reit counsel rendered an opinion to us, dated as of the closing date of the merger, substantially to the effect that on the basis of the facts, representations and assumptions set forth or referred to in such opinion, crp qualified as a reit under the code for the taxable years ending december 31, 1999 through the closing date of the merger. if, however, contrary to the opinion of crp's reit counsel, crp failed to qualify as a reit for any of its taxable years, it would be required to pay federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on its taxable income at regular corporate rates. because the crp merger was treated for income tax purposes as if crp sold all of its assets in a taxable transaction to hcp, inc., if crp did not qualify as a reit for the taxable year of the merger, it would be subject to tax on the excess of the fair market value of its assets over their adjusted tax basis. as a successor in interest to crp, hcp, inc. would be required to pay this tax. as a result of the crc merger, hcp, inc. succeeded to the assets and the liabilities of crc, including any liabilities for unpaid taxes and any tax liabilities created in connection with the crc merger. at the closing of the crc merger, we received an opinion of our counsel substantially to the effect that on the basis of the facts, representations and assumptions set forth or referred to in such opinion, for federal income tax purposes the crc merger qualified as a reorganization within the meaning of section 368(a) of the code. if, however, contrary to the opinion of our counsel, the crc merger did not qualify as a reorganization within the meaning of section 368(a) of the code, the crc merger would have been treated as a sale of crc's assets to hcp, inc. in a taxable transaction, and crc would have recognized taxable gain. in such a case, as crc's successor-in-interest, hcp, inc. would be required to pay the tax on any such gain. as a result of the crc merger and the acquisition of seusa, hcp, inc. and/or our subsidiary, hcp life science reit, may be required to distribute earnings and profits. hcp, inc. succeeded to the tax attributes, including the earnings and profits of crc (assuming the crc merger qualified as reorganizations under the code). similarly, hcp life science reit succeeded to the tax attributes, including the earnings and profits of seusa. to qualify as a reit, hcp, inc. and hcp life science reit must have distributed any non-reit earnings and profits by the close of the taxable year in which each of these transactions occurred. any adjustments to the income of crc or seusa for taxable years ending on or before the closing date of the applicable transactions, including as a result of an examination of the tax returns of either company by the internal revenue service, could affect the calculation of such company's earnings and profits. if the internal revenue service were to determine that hcp, inc. or hcp life science reit acquired non-reit earnings and profits from one or more of these predecessor entities that hcp, inc. or hcp life science reit failed to distribute prior to the end of the taxable year in which the applicable transaction occurred, hcp, inc. and hcp life science reit could avoid disqualification as a reit by paying a "deficiency dividend." under these procedures, hcp, inc. or hcp life science reit generally would be required to distribute any such non-reit earnings and profits to its respective stockholders within 90 days of the determination and pay a statutory interest charge at a specified rate to the internal revenue service. such a distribution would be in addition to the distribution of reit taxable income necessary to satisfy the reit distribution requirement and may require that hcp, inc. or hcp life science reit, as applicable, borrow funds to make the distribution even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for borrowings. in addition, payment of the statutory interest charge could materially adversely affect the cash flow of the applicable reit. 28 table of contents risks related to our organizational structure our charter contains ownership limits with respect to our common stock and other classes of capital stock. our charter, subject to certain exceptions, contains restrictions on the ownership and transfer of our common stock and preferred stock that are intended to assist us in preserving our qualification as a reit. under our charter, subject to certain exceptions, no person or entity may own, actually or constructively, more than 9.8% (by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the outstanding shares of our common or preferred stock. additionally, our charter has a 9.9% ownership limitation on the company's voting shares, which may include common stock or other classes of capital stock. our board of directors, in its sole discretion, may exempt a proposed transferee from either ownership limit. the ownership limits may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. certain provisions of maryland law and our charter and bylaws could hinder, delay or prevent a change in control transaction, even if the transaction involves a premium price for our common stock or our stockholders believe such transaction to be otherwise in their best interests. certain provisions of maryland law, our charter and our bylaws have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing transactions that involve an actual or threatened change in control, even if these transactions involve a premium price for our common stock or our stockholders believe such transaction to be otherwise in their best interests. these provisions include the following: removal of directors. subject to the rights of one or more classes or series of preferred stock to elect one or more directors, our charter provides that a director may only be removed by the affirmative vote or written consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares or by a unanimous vote of all other members of the board of directors. stockholder requested special meetings. our bylaws only permit our stockholders to call a special meeting upon the written request of the stockholders holding, in the aggregate, not less than 50% of the outstanding shares entitled to vote on the business proposed to be transacted at such meeting. advance notice provisions for stockholder nominations and proposals. our bylaws do not permit stockholders to nominate persons for election as directors at, or to bring other business before, any meeting of stockholders unless we are notified in a timely manner, in writing, prior to the meeting. preferred stock. under our charter, our board of directors has authority to issue preferred stock from time to time in one or more series and to establish the terms, preferences and rights of any such series of preferred stock, all without the approval of our stockholders. duties of directors with respect to unsolicited takeovers. maryland law provides protection for maryland corporations against unsolicited takeovers by limiting, among other things, the duties of the directors in unsolicited takeover situations. the duties of directors of maryland corporations do not require them to (a) accept, recommend or respond to any proposal by a person seeking to acquire control of the corporation, (b) make a determination under the maryland business combination act or the maryland control share acquisition act, or (c) act or fail to act solely because of the effect that the act or failure to act may have on an acquisition or potential acquisition of control of the corporation or the amount or type of consideration that may be offered or paid to the stockholders in an acquisition. moreover, an act of a director of a maryland corporation relating to or affecting an acquisition or potential acquisition of control is not subject to any higher duty or greater scrutiny than is applied to any other act of a director. 29 table of contents maryland law also contains a statutory presumption that an act of a director of a maryland corporation satisfies the applicable standards of conduct for directors under maryland law. unsolicited takeovers. under maryland law, a maryland corporation with a class of equity securities registered under the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, and at least three independent directors may elect to be subject to certain statutory provisions relating to unsolicited takeovers which, among other things, would automatically classify the board of directors into three classes with staggered terms of three years each and vest in the board of directors the exclusive right to determine the number of directors and the exclusive right, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors, to fill vacancies on the board of directors, even if the remaining directors do not constitute a quorum. these statutory provisions relating to unsolicited takeovers also provide that any director elected to fill a vacancy shall hold office for the remainder of the full term of the class of directors in which the vacancy occurred, rather than the next annual meeting of directors as would otherwise be the case, and until the director's successor is elected and qualified. an election to be subject to any or all of the foregoing statutory provisions may be made in our charter or bylaws, or by resolution of our board of directors without stockholder approval. any such statutory provision to which we elect to be subject will apply even if other provisions of maryland law or our charter or bylaws provide to the contrary. neither our charter nor our bylaws provides that we are subject to any of the foregoing statutory provisions relating to unsolicited takeovers. however, our board of directors could adopt a resolution, without stockholder approval, to elect to become subject to some or all of these statutory provisions. if we made an election to be subject to such statutory provisions and our board of directors was divided into three classes with staggered terms of office of three years each, the classification and staggered terms of office of our directors would make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our board of directors since at least two annual meetings of stockholders, instead of one, generally would be required to effect a change in the majority of our board of directors. maryland business combination act. the maryland business combination act provides that, unless exempted, a maryland corporation may not engage in business combinations, including mergers, dispositions of 10% or more of its assets, issuances of shares of stock and other specified transactions, with an "interested stockholder" or an affiliate of an interested stockholder for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder became an interested stockholder, and thereafter unless specified criteria are met. an interested stockholder is generally a person owning or controlling, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting power of the outstanding stock of a maryland corporation. unless our board of directors takes action to exempt us, generally or with respect to certain transactions, from this statute in the future, the maryland business combination act will be applicable to business combinations between us and other persons. in addition to the restrictions on business combinations provided under maryland law, our charter also contains restrictions on business combinations. our charter requires that, except in some circumstances, "business combinations" between us and a "related person," including a beneficial holder of 10% or more of our outstanding voting stock, be approved by the affirmative vote of at least 90% of our outstanding voting shares. maryland control share acquisition act. maryland law provides that "control shares" of a corporation acquired in a "control share acquisition" shall have no voting rights except to the extent approved by a vote of two-thirds of the votes eligible to be cast on the matter under the maryland control share acquisition act. "control shares" means shares of stock that, if aggregated with all other shares of stock previously acquired by the acquiror, would entitle the 30 table of contents acquiror to exercise voting power in electing directors within one of the following ranges of the voting power: one-tenth or more but less than one-third, one-third or more but less than a majority, or a majority or more of all voting power. a "control share acquisition" means the acquisition of control shares, subject to certain exceptions. if voting rights or control shares acquired in a control share acquisition are not approved at a stockholder's meeting, or if the acquiring person does not deliver an acquiring person statement as required by the maryland control share acquisition act, then subject to certain conditions and limitations, the issuer may redeem any or all of the control shares for fair value. if voting rights of such control shares are approved at a stockholder's meeting and the acquiror becomes entitled to vote a majority of the shares of stock entitled to vote, all other stockholders may exercise appraisal rights. our bylaws contain a provision exempting acquisitions of our shares from the maryland control share acquisition act. however, our board of directors may amend our bylaws in the future to repeal or modify this exemption, in which case any control shares of our company acquired in a control share acquisition will be subject to the maryland control acquisition act. our issuance of additional shares of common or preferred stock, warrants or debt securities may dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders and reduce the market price for our shares. as of december 31, 2009, we had 293.5 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding. we cannot predict the effect, if any, that potential future sales of our common or preferred stock, warrants or debt securities, or the availability of our securities for future sale, will have on the market price of our outstanding securities, including our common stock. sales of substantial amounts of our common or preferred stock, warrants or debt securities convertible into, or exercisable or exchangeable for, common stock in the public market or the perception that such sales might occur could reduce the market price of our common stock. the sales of any such securities could also dilute the interests of existing common stockholders and may cause a decrease in the market price of our common stock. additionally, we maintain equity incentive plans for our employees. we have historically made grants of stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units to our employees under such plans, and we expect to continue to do so. as of december 31, 2009, there were options to purchase approximately 6.7 million shares of our common stock outstanding of which 2.5 million shares are exercisable, approximately 509,000 unvested shares of restricted stock issued and outstanding and approximately 980,000 unvested restricted stock units issued and outstanding under our equity incentive plans. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 60 depreciation and amortization expense. depreciation and amortization expenses increased $6.2 million to $319.6 million for the year ended december 31, 2009. the increase in depreciation and amortization expense primarily relates to a $3.3 million increase due to the purchase in september 2008 of tenet's noncontrolling interest in health care property partners, a joint venture between hcp and an affiliate of tenet, and an increase of $2.0 million resulting from an adjustment to the purchase price allocation related to certain assets acquired in 2006 (see note 9 to the consolidated financial statements in this report). 48 table of contents operating expenses. year ended december 31, change segments 2009 2008 $ % (dollars in thousands) senior housing $ 3,938 $ 11,373 $ (7,435 ) (65 )% life science 47,285 43,565 3,720 9 medical office 130,601 134,919 (4,318 ) (3 ) hospital 3,873 3,264 609 19 skilled nursing 201 201 nm (1) total $ 185,898 $ 193,121 $ (7,223 ) (4 )% (1) percentage change not meaningful. operating expenses are predominantly related to mob and life science properties where we incur the expenses and recover all or a portion of those expenses under the respective leases. accordingly, the number of properties in our mob and life science portfolios directly impact operating expenses. the presentation of expenses as general and administrative or operating is based on the underlying nature of the expense. periodically, we review the classification of expenses between categories and make revisions that we believe improve the quality of our presentation. senior housing. senior housing operating expenses decreased primarily as a result of a decrease in facility-level operating expenses for three senior housing properties that were previously under management agreements and re-leased on a triple-net basis during 2009. life science. life science operating expenses increased primarily as a result of an increase in occupancy levels at our life science facilities and the impact of development assets placed in service during 2008. medical office. medical office operating expenses decreased primarily as a result of cost saving initiatives implemented in 2009 and the impact of properties which were taken out of service and placed into redevelopment during 2008 and 2009. general and administrative expenses. general and administrative expenses increased $4.8 million to $78.5 million for the year ended december 31, 2009. the increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to an increase in legal fees associated with litigation matters partially offset by lower compensation related expenses. for the year ended december 31, 2009 and 2008, in relation to the ventas litigation matter, we incurred legal expenses of $13.2 million and $6.9 million, respectively (see the information set forth under the heading "legal proceedings" of note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in this report). litigation provision. on september 4, 2009, a jury returned a verdict in favor of ventas in an action brought against us in the united states district court for the western district of kentucky for tortious interference with prospective business advantage in connection with ventas' 2007 acquisition of sunrise reit. the jury awarded ventas approximately $102 million in compensatory damages, which we recorded as a litigation provision expense during 2009 (see the information set forth under the heading "legal proceedings" of note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in this report). impairments. during the year ended december 31, 2009, we recognized impairments of $75.5 million as a result of (i) an aggregate $63.1 million provision related to dfl and loan losses (impairment charges) related to the bankruptcy of erickson retirement communities ("erickson") who is the tenant at three of our senior housing ccrc dfls and the borrower of a senior construction loan in which we have a $10 million participation (see note 6 to the consolidated financial statements 49 table of contents in this report), and (ii) $5.9 million of intangible assets on 12 of 15 senior housing communities that were written off due to the termination of the sunrise management agreements on 15 senior housing communities effective october 1, 2009, (iii) $4.3 million related to a senior secured term loan as a result of an expected restructuring of terms to the loan following the default of the borrower in our hospital segment (see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements in this report), and (iv) $2.2 million related to intangible assets associated with the early termination of a lease in our life science segment. during the year ended december 31, 2008, we recognized impairments of $27.5 million as follows: (i) $12.0 million related to intangible assets associated with the transfer of an 11-property senior housing portfolio, (ii) $3.7 million related to intangible assets associated with the early termination of three leases in the life science segment, (iii) $1.0 million related to intangible assets associated with the early termination of two leases in the hospital segment, (iv) $1.6 million related to two senior housing facilities as a result of a decrease in expected cash flows, and (v) $9.2 million, included in discontinued operations, related to the decrease in expected cash flows and anticipated dispositions of two senior housing properties and one hospital. other income, net. for the year ended december 31, 2009, other income, net decreased $17.9 million to $7.9 million. this decrease was primarily related to the $28.6 million of income related to the 2008 settlement of litigation with tenet and a $2.4 million gain on the early repayment of debt. the decrease was partially offset by increases in gains on marketable debt securities of $8.6 million and a reduction of $7.3 million of other-than-temporary impairments on marketable equity securities. for a more detailed description of our marketable securities investments, see note 10 of the consolidated financial statements in this report. interest expense. for the year ended december 31, 2009, interest expense decreased $49.5 million to $298.9 million. the decrease was primarily due to (i) a decrease of $45.7 million from the decline in libor and the repayment of the outstanding balance under our bridge loan and revolving line of credit facility, and (ii) a decrease of $8.3 million resulting from the repayment of $300 million senior unsecured floating rate notes in september 2008. these decreases in interest expense were partially offset by an increase of $5.2 million from the net impact of mortgage debt placed on senior housing assets in 2008 and the repayment of mortgage debt related to contractual maturities. our exposure to expense fluctuations related to our variable rate indebtedness is mitigated by our variable rate investments. for a more detailed discussion of our interest rate risk, see "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" in item 7a. 50 table of contents the table below sets forth information with respect to our debt, excluding premiums and discounts (dollars in thousands): as of december 31, 2009 2008 balance: fixed rate $ 4,695,082 $ 5,059,910 variable rate 972,427 892,431 total $ 5,667,509 $ 5,952,341 percent of total debt: fixed rate 83 % 85 % variable rate 17 15 total 100 % 100 % weighted-average interest rate at end of period: fixed rate 6.32 % 6.34 % variable rate 2.47 % 2.57 % total weighted average rate 5.65 % 5.77 % income taxes. for the year ended december 31, 2009, income taxes decreased $2.3 million to $1.9 million. this decrease is primarily due to lower interest earned, due to a decline in libor, for a portion of one of our mezzanine loans, the transfer of a loan investment out of one of our taxable reit subsidiary ("trs") and increased depreciation expense, due to a correction of an immaterial error for one of our real estate investments held in a trs. discontinued operations. income from discontinued operations for the year ended december 31, 2009 was $39.8 million, compared to $239.8 million for the comparable period in 2008. the decrease is primarily due to a decrease in gains on real estate dispositions of $191.9 million and a decline in operating income from discontinued operations of $17.1 million, partially offset by a reduction of impairment charges in discontinued operations of $9.1 million. during the year ended december 31, 2009, we sold 14 properties for $72 million, as compared to 51 properties for $643 million for the year ended december 31, 2008. noncontrolling interests' and participating securities' share in earnings. for the year ended december 31, 2009, noncontrolling interests' and participating securities' share in earnings decreased $8.5 million, to $16.0 million. this decrease was primarily due to (i) a $4 million decrease related to the conversions of 3.3 million downreit units that converted into shares of our common stock during 2008 and 2009, and (ii) a $4 million decrease related to purchases of other noncontrolling interests during 2008 and 2009. comparison of the year ended december 31, 2008 to the year ended december 31, 2007 we completed our acquisition of seusa on august 1, 2007 and an investment in mezzanine loans with an aggregate face value of $1.0 billion on december 21, 2007. seusa's results of operations and the results of these mezzanine loans are reflected in our consolidated financial statements from those respective dates. 51 table of contents rental and related revenues. year ended december 31, change segments 2008 2007 $ % (dollars in thousands) senior housing $ 288,625 $ 291,529 $ (2,904 ) (1 )% life science 208,415 79,660 128,755 nm (1) medical office 259,442 273,792 (14,350 ) (5 ) hospital 83,029 79,660 3,369 4 skilled nursing 35,925 35,172 753 2 total $ 875,436 $ 759,813 $ 115,623 15 % (1) percentage change not meaningful. senior housing. senior housing rental and related revenues decreased by $2.9 million to $288.6 million for the year ended december 31, 2008, primarily as a result of income of $9.1 million recognized in 2007, resulting from our change in estimate relating to the collectibility of straight-lined rents due from emeritus, which was partially offset by the additive effect of our acquisitions during 2008 and 2007. no significant changes in estimates related to the collectibility of straight-lined rents were made during the year ended december 31, 2008. life science. life science rental and related revenues increased by $128.8 million, to $208.4 million for the year ended december 31, 2008, primarily as a result of our acquisition of seusa on august 1, 2007. in addition, included in life science rental and related revenues for the year ended december 31, 2008, is lease termination income of $18 million received from a tenant in connection with the early termination of three leases on july 30, 2008 and rental revenues related to three development projects that were placed into service in 2008. medical office. medical office rental and related revenues for the year ended december 31, 2007 includes $18 million from assets that are no longer consolidated and are now in the hcp ventures iv, llc joint venture ("hcp ventures iv"). the decrease in medical office rental and related revenues resulting from hcp ventures iv was partially offset by the additive effect of our mob acquisitions during 2007. tenant recoveries. year ended december 31, change segments 2008 2007 $ % (dollars in thousands) life science $ 33,932 $ 19,311 $ 14,621 76 % medical office 46,960 44,529 2,431 5 hospital 1,919 1,092 827 76 total $ 82,811 $ 64,932 $ 17,879 28 % the increase in tenant recoveries for the year ended december 31, 2008 was primarily as a result of our acquisition of seusa on august 1, 2007, three development projects that were placed into service in 2008, and the additive effect of our other acquisitions during 2007, partially offset by tenant recoveries related to the assets contributed to hcp ventures iv. income from direct financing leases. income from dfls decreased $5.7 million to $58.1 million for the year ended december 31, 2008. the decrease was primarily due to two dfl tenants exercising 52 table of contents their purchase options on our leased assets during 2007 and two additional dfls that were placed on non-accrual status and accounted for on a cost-recovery basis beginning october 2008. no purchase options were exercised during 2008. we expect that income from dfls will decline in 2009 as a result of the two dfls that are accounted for on a cost-recovery basis. interest income. interest income increased $79.3 million to $130.9 million for the year ended december 31, 2008. the increase was primarily related to our hcr manorcare mezzanine loan investment made in december 2007. for a more detailed description of our mezzanine loan investments, see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report. our exposure to income fluctuations related to our variable rate loans is partially mitigated by our variable rate indebtedness. for a more detailed discussion of our interest rate risk, see "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" in item 7a. investment management fee income. investment management fee income decreased $7.7 million to $5.9 million for the year ended december 31, 2008. the decrease in investment management fee income was primarily due to the acquisition fees earned related to our hcp ventures ii joint venture of $5.4 million on january 5, 2007 and hcp ventures iv of $3.0 million on april 30, 2007. no acquisition fees were earned for the year ended december 31, 2008. depreciation and amortization expenses. depreciation and amortization expenses increased $55.1 million to $313.4 million for the year ended december 31, 2008. the increase was primarily related to our seusa acquisition and three development projects that were placed into service in 2008. the increase in depreciation and amortization related to seusa was partially offset by the 2007 expenses related to the assets contributed to hcp ventures iv. operating expenses. year ended december 31, change segments 2008 2007 $ % (dollars in thousands) senior housing $ 11,373 $ 13,690 $ (2,317 ) (17 )% life science 43,565 26,220 17,345 66 medical office 134,919 133,787 1,132 1 hospital 3,264 2,007 1,257 63 total $ 193,121 $ 175,704 $ 17,417 10 % operating expenses are predominantly related to mob and life science properties where we incur the expenses and recover a portion of those expenses under the respective leases. accordingly, the number of properties in our mob and life science portfolios directly impact operating expenses. the presentation of expenses as general and administrative or operating is based on the underlying nature of the expense. periodically, we review the classification of expenses between categories and make revisions based on changes in the underlying nature of the expense. senior housing. senior housing operating expenses decreased by $2.3 million to $11.4 million, for the year ended december 31, 2008, primarily as a result of a senior housing property that was previously under a management agreement and re-leased on a triple-net basis during 2008. life science. life science operating expenses increased by $17.3 million to $43.6 million for the year ended december 31, 2008, primarily as a result of our acquisition of seusa on august 1, 2007 and three development projects that were placed into service in 2008. 53 table of contents hospital. hospital operating expenses increased $1.3 million to $3.3 million for the year ended december 31, 2008, primarily as a result the additive effect of our hospital acquisitions during 2007. general and administrative expenses. for the year ended december 31, 2008, general and administrative expenses increased $6.2 million to $73.7 million. the increase in general and administrative expenses was due to an increase in legal fees of $7 million primarily resulting from litigation and an increase of $11 million related to compensation related expenses and professional fees (the information set forth under the heading "legal proceedings" of note 12 to the consolidated financial statements, included in this report, is incorporated herein by reference). these increases were partially offset by a decrease of $10 million in merger and integration-related expenses associated with the seusa acquisition and our merger with cnl retirement properties, inc. and cnl retirement corp., and a $2 million decrease in costs related to acquisitions that were not consummated in 2007. impairments. during the year ended december 31, 2008, we recognized impairments of $27.5 million as follows: (i) $12.0 million related to intangible assets associated with the transfer of an 11-property senior housing portfolio, (ii) $3.7 million related to intangible assets associated with the early termination of three leases in the life science segment, (iii) $1.0 million related to intangible assets associated with the early termination of two leases in the hospital segment, (iv) $1.6 million related to two senior housing facilities as a result of a decrease in expected cash flows, and (v) $9.2 million, included in discontinued operations, related to the decrease in expected cash flows and anticipated dispositions of two senior housing properties and one hospital. no assets were determined to be impaired during the year ended december 31, 2007. gain on sale of real estate interest. on april 30, 2007, we sold an 80% interest in hcp ventures iv, which resulted in a gain of $10.1 million. no similar transactions occurred during the year ended december 31, 2008. other income, net. other income, net increased $1.5 million, to $25.8 million, for the year ended december 31, 2008. the increase was primarily from $28.6 million related to the settlement of litigation with tenet, which was predominantly offset by (i) $7.1 million of lower interest earned on cash balances in 2008, (ii) 2007 gains resulting from insurance proceeds of $4.9 million, (iii) an increase in losses from derivatives and hedge ineffectiveness of $6.4 million, (iv) an increase in recognized losses of marketable equity securities and investments in unconsolidated joint ventures of $4.4 million, and (v) a decrease in gains from the sale of marketable debt securities of $3.2 million. interest expense. interest expense decreased $6.8 million, to $348.4 million, for the year ended december 31, 2008. the decrease was primarily due to: (i) a decrease of $17 million related to the average outstanding balance under our bridge loan and a decline in libor, (ii) an increase of $15 million of capitalized interest related to an increase in assets under development in our life science segment, (iii) a decrease of $10 million resulting from the repayment of $300 million senior unsecured floating rate notes in september 2008 and (iv) a charge of $6 million related to the write-off of unamortized loan fees associated with our previous revolving line of credit facility that was terminated in 2007. the decrease in interest expense was partially offset by: (i) an increase of $34 million of interest expense from the issuance of $1.1 billion of senior unsecured notes during 2007 and (ii) an increase of $6 million related to the average outstanding balances under our line of credit and term loan. our exposure to expense fluctuations related to our variable rate indebtedness is mitigated by our variable rate investments. for a more detailed discussion of our interest rate risk, see "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" in item 7a. 54 table of contents the table below sets forth information with respect to our debt, excluding premiums and discounts (dollars in thousands): as of december 31, 2008 2007 balance: fixed rate $ 5,059,910 $ 4,704,988 variable rate 892,431 2,822,316 total $ 5,952,341 $ 7,527,304 percent of total debt: fixed rate 85 % 63 % variable rate 15 37 total 100 % 100 % weighted-average interest rate at end of period: fixed rate 6.34 % 6.18 % variable rate 2.57 % 5.90 % total weighted average rate 5.77 % 6.08 % income taxes. for the year ended december 31, 2008, income taxes increased $2.8 million to $4.2 million. this increase is primarily due to an increase in taxable income related to a portion of one of our mezzanine loan investments, which was contributed to a trs in january 2008. equity income from unconsolidated joint ventures. for the year ended december 31, 2008, equity income from unconsolidated joint ventures decreased $2.3 million, to $3.3 million. this decrease is primarily due to a change in the expected useful life of certain intangible assets of one of our unconsolidated joint ventures that resulted in higher amounts of amortization expense. discontinued operations. income from discontinued operations for the year ended december 31, 2008 was $239.8 million, compared to $478.3 million for the comparable period in the prior year. the decrease is primarily due to a decrease in gains on real estate dispositions. during the year ended december 31, 2008, we sold 51 properties for $643 million, as compared to 97 properties for $922 million in the year-ago period. additionally, the decrease was attributable to a year over year decline in operating income from discontinued operations of $54.2 million and an increase in impairment charges of $9.2 million. discontinued operations for the year ended december 31, 2008 included 57 properties compared to 154 for the year ended december 31, 2007. also included in discontinued operations during the year ended december 31, 2007 was $6 million of rental income we recognized, as a result of a change in estimate related to the collectibility of straight-line rental income from emeritus. noncontrolling interests' and participating securities'. for the year ended december 31, 2008, noncontrolling interests' and participating securities' share in earnings decreased $3.4 million to $24.5 million. this decrease is primarily due to the conversion of 2.8 million of downreit units into shares of our common stock during 2008, and to a lesser extent, the purchase in september 2008 of tenet's noncontrolling interest in health care property partners ("hcpp"), a joint venture between hcp and an affiliate of tenet. see notes 2, 4 and 12 to the consolidated financial statements in this report for additional information on downreit units and hcpp. liquidity and capital resources our principal liquidity needs are to (i) fund normal operating expenses, (ii) meet debt service requirements, including $206 million of senior unsecured notes and $103 million of mortgage debt 55 table of contents principal payments and maturities in 2010, (iii) fund capital expenditures, including tenant improvements and leasing costs, (iv) fund acquisition and development activities, and (v) make dividend distributions. we believe these needs will be satisfied using cash flows generated by operations and from our various financing activities during the next twelve months. access to capital markets impacts our cost of capital and ability to refinance maturing indebtedness, as well as to fund future acquisitions and development through the issuance of additional securities or secured debt. during 2009, we closed $881 million of equity capital through the issuance of common stock, sold $72 million of real estate and a portion of our hca bonds for $157 million. as of january 31, 2009, we had a credit rating of baa3 (stable) from moody's, bbb (stable) from s&amp;p and bbb (positive) from fitch on our senior unsecured debt securities, and ba1 (stable) from moody's, bb+ (stable) from s&amp;p and bb+ (positive) from fitch on our preferred equity securities. net cash provided by operating activities was $516 million and $569 million for the years ended december 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. the decrease in operating cash flows from operations is primarily the result of the 2008 litigation settlement income and the decrease in termination fees. the decrease was partially offset by increased revenues, as well as fluctuations in receivables, payables, accruals and deferred revenue. our cash flows from operations are dependent upon the occupancy level of multi-tenant buildings, rental rates on leases, our tenants' performance on their lease obligations, the level of operating expenses and other factors. net cash used by investing activities was $61 million for the year ended december 31, 2009 and consisted of the net effects of funding: (i) $165 million for net investments in loans receivable, (ii) $41 million for lease commissions and tenant and capital improvements, and (iii) $96 million for development of real estate, which were partially offset by $157 million of proceeds from sales of hca marketable debt securities and $72 million of proceeds from sales of real estate. net cash used in financing activities was $400 million for the year ended december 31, 2009 and consisted of the net effects of: (i) repayment of our bridge loan credit facility of $320 million, (ii) net repayments under our bank revolving line of credit of $150 million, (iii) payments of common and preferred dividends aggregating $517 million, and (iv) repayment of our mortgage debt of $234 million, which were partially offset by net proceeds of $853 million from the issuances of common stock. debt bank line of credit and term loan. our revolving line of credit with a syndicate of banks provided for an aggregate $1.5 billion of borrowing capacity at december 31, 2009. this revolving line of credit facility accrues interest at a rate per annum equal to libor plus a margin ranging from 0.325% to 1.00%, depending upon our debt ratings. we pay a facility fee on the entire revolving commitment ranging from 0.10% to 0.25%, depending upon our debt ratings. based on our debt ratings on december 31, 2009, the margin on the revolving line of credit facility was 0.55% and the facility fee was 0.15%. our revolving line of credit facility matures on august 1, 2011. at december 31, 2009, we had no outstanding amounts drawn under this revolving line of credit facility. at december 31, 2009, a $103 million letter of credit was issued against our revolving line of credit facility as a result of the ventas litigation judgment. for further information regarding the ventas litigation judgment see note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in this report. at december 31, 2009, the outstanding balance of our term loan was $200 million with a maturity date of august 1, 2011. the term loan accrues interest at a rate per annum equal to libor plus a margin ranging from 1.825% to 2.375%, depending upon our debt ratings (weighted-average effective interest rate of 2.70% at december 31, 2009). commencing on october 25, 2010, the margin on this loan will increase by an additional 0.25% through its maturity. based on our debt ratings on december 31, 2009, the margin on the term loan facility was 2.00%. 56 table of contents our revolving line of credit facility and term loan contain certain financial restrictions and other customary requirements. among other things, these covenants, using terms defined in the agreement, (i) limit the ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to consolidated total asset value to 60%, (ii) limit the ratio of unsecured debt to consolidated unencumbered asset value to 65%, (iii) require a fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.75 times, and (iv) require a formula-determined minimum consolidated tangible net worth of $4.9 billion at december 31, 2009. at december 31, 2009, we were in compliance with each of these restrictions and requirements of our revolving line of credit facility and term loan. our revolving line of credit facility and term loan contain cross-default provisions to other indebtedness of ours, including in some instances, certain mortgages on our properties. certain mortgages contain default provisions relating to defaults under the leases or operating agreements on the applicable properties by our operators or tenants, including default provisions relating to the bankruptcy filings of such operator or tenant. although we believe that we would be able to secure amendments under the applicable agreements if a default as described above occurs, such default may result in significantly less favorable borrowing terms than currently available, material delays in the availability of funding or other material adverse consequences. senior unsecured notes. at december 31, 2009, we had $3.5 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes outstanding. interest rates on the notes ranged from 1.15% to 7.07% with a weighted-average effective rate of 6.12% at december 31, 2009. discounts and premiums are amortized to interest expense over the term of the related notes. the senior unsecured notes contain certain covenants including limitations on debt, cross-acceleration provisions and other customary terms. at december 31, 2009, we were in compliance with these covenants. mortgage and other secured debt. at december 31, 2009, we had $1.8 billion in mortgage debt secured by 165 healthcare facilities with a carrying amount of $2.3 billion. interest rates on the mortgage debt ranged from 0.31% to 8.63% with a weighted-average effective interest rate of 5.08% at december 31, 2009. mortgage debt generally requires monthly principal and interest payments, is collateralized by certain properties and is generally non-recourse. mortgage debt typically restricts transfer of the encumbered properties, prohibits additional liens, restricts prepayment, requires payment of real estate taxes, requires maintenance of the properties in good condition, requires maintenance of insurance on the properties and includes conditions to obtain lender consent to enter into and terminate material leases. some of the mortgage debt is also cross-collateralized by multiple properties and may require tenants or operators to maintain compliance with the applicable leases or operating agreements of such properties. other debt. at december 31, 2009, we had $99.9 million of non-interest bearing life care bonds at two of our ccrcs and non-interest bearing occupancy fee deposits at another of our senior housing facility, all of which were payable to certain residents of the facilities (collectively "life care bonds"). at december 31, 2009, $43.3 million of the life care bonds were refundable to the residents upon the resident moving out or to their estate upon death, and $56.6 million of the life care bonds were refundable after the unit is successfully remarketed to a new resident. 57 table of contents debt maturities the following table summarizes our stated debt maturities and scheduled principal repayments, excluding debt premiums and discounts, at december 31, 2009 (in thousands): year term loan senior unsecured notes mortgage and other secured debt total (1) 2010 $ $ 206,421 $ 102,958 $ 309,379 2011 200,000 292,265 146,987 639,252 2012 250,000 63,776 313,776 2013 550,000 675,104 1,225,104 2014 87,000 177,435 264,435 thereafter 2,150,000 665,680 2,815,680 $ 200,000 $ 3,535,686 $ 1,831,940 $ 5,567,626 (1) excludes $99.9 million of other debt that represents non-interest bearing life care bonds and occupancy fee deposits at three of our senior housing facilities, which have no scheduled maturities. derivative financial instruments. we use derivative instruments to mitigate the effects of interest rate fluctuations on specific forecasted transactions as well as recognized obligations or assets. we do not use derivative instruments for speculative or trading purposes. the following table summarizes our outstanding interest rate swap contracts as of december 31, 2009 (dollars in thousands): date entered maturity date hedge designation fixed rate floating rate index notional amount fair value july 2005 (1) july 2010 cash flow 3.82 % bma swap index $ 45,600 $ (3,311 ) june 2009 september 2011 fair value 5.95 % 1 month libor+4.21% 250,000 2,231 july 2009 july 2013 cash flow 6.13 % 1 month libor+3.65% 14,600 (127 ) august 2009 february 2011 cash flow 0.87 % 1 month libor 250,000 538 august 2009 august 2011 cash flow 1.24 % 1 month libor 250,000 754 (1) represents three interest-rate swap contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $45.6 million. for a more detailed description of our derivative financial instruments, see "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" in item 7a. equity at december 31, 2009, we had 4.0 million shares of 7.25% series e cumulative redeemable preferred stock, 7.8 million shares of 7.10% series f cumulative redeemable preferred stock and 293.5 million shares of common stock outstanding. at december 31, 2009, equity totaled $6.0 billion and our equity securities had a market value of $9.4 billion. as of december 31, 2009, there were a total of 4.3 million downreit units outstanding in six limited liability companies in which we are the managing member: (i) hcpi/tennessee, llc; (ii) hcpi/utah, llc; (iii) hcpi/utah ii, llc; (iv) hcp dr california, llc; (v) hcp dr alabama, llc; and (vi) hcp dr mcd, llc. the downreit units are redeemable for an amount of cash approximating the then-existing market value of shares of our common stock or, at our option, shares of our common stock (subject to certain adjustments, such as stock splits and reclassifications). 58 table of contents shelf registration we have a prospectus on file with the sec as part of a registration statement on form s-3, using a shelf registration process which expires in september 2012. under this "shelf" process, we may sell from time to time any combination of the securities in one or more offerings. the securities described in the prospectus include common stock, preferred stock and debt securities. each time we sell securities under the shelf registration, we will provide a prospectus supplement that will contain specific information about the terms of the securities being offered and of the offering. we may offer and sell the securities pursuant to this prospectus from time to time in one or more of the following ways: through underwriters or dealers, through agents, directly to purchasers or through a combination of any of these methods of sales. proceeds from the sale of these securities may be used for general corporate purposes, which may include repayment of indebtedness, working capital and potential acquisitions. off-balance sheet arrangements we own interests in certain unconsolidated joint ventures, including hcp ventures ii, hcp ventures iii and hcp ventures iv, as described under note 8 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report. except in limited circumstances, our risk of loss is limited to our investment in the joint venture and any outstanding loans receivable. in addition, we have certain properties which serve as collateral for debt that is owed by a previous owner of certain of our facilities, as described under note 12 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report. our risk of loss for these properties is limited to the outstanding debt balance plus penalties, if any. we have no other material off-balance sheet arrangements that we expect would materially affect our liquidity and capital resources except those described below under "contractual obligations." contractual obligations the following table summarizes our material contractual payment obligations and commitments at december 31, 2009 (in thousands): total (1) less than one year 2011-2012 2013-2014 more than five years senior unsecured notes $ 3,535,686 $ 206,421 $ 542,265 $ 637,000 $ 2,150,000 mortgage and other secured debt 1,831,940 102,958 210,763 852,539 665,680 term loan 200,000 200,000 development commitments (2) 8,269 8,269 ground and other operating leases 200,397 4,857 10,261 9,911 175,368 interest 1,570,773 300,751 530,920 406,569 332,533 total $ 7,347,065 $ 623,256 $ 1,494,209 $ 1,906,019 $ 3,323,581 (1) excludes $99.9 million of other debt that represents non-interest bearing life care bonds and occupancy fee deposits at three of our senior housing facilities, which have no scheduled maturities. (2) represents construction and other commitments for developments in progress. inflation our leases often provide for either fixed increases in base rents or indexed escalators, based on the consumer price index or other measures, and/or additional rent based on increases in the tenants' operating revenues. substantially all of our mob leases require the tenant to pay a share of property operating costs such as real estate taxes, insurance and utilities. substantially all of our senior housing, life science, skilled nursing and hospital leases require the operator or tenant to pay all of the property operating costs or reimburse us for all such costs. we believe that inflationary increases in expenses will 59 table of contents be offset, in part, by the operator or tenant expense reimbursements and contractual rent increases described above. recent accounting pronouncements see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in this report for the impact of new accounting standards. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk. at december 31, 2009, we were exposed to market risks related to fluctuations in interest rates on approximately $1.7 billion of variable-rate hcr manorcare loan investments and $83 million of other investments where the payments fluctuate with changes in libor. our exposure to income fluctuations related to our variable-rate investments is partially offset by (i) $200 million of variable-rate term loan financing, (ii) $498 million of variable-rate mortgage notes and other secured debt payable, excluding $60 million of variable-rate mortgage notes which have been hedged through interest-rate swap contracts, (iii) $25 million of variable-rate senior unsecured notes, and (iv) $750 million of additional variable interest rate exposure achieved through interest-rate swap contracts (pay float and receive fixed). interest rate fluctuations will generally not affect our future earnings or cash flows on our fixed rate debt, loans receivable and debt securities unless such instruments mature or are otherwise terminated. however, interest rate changes will affect the fair value of our fixed rate instruments. conversely, changes in interest rates on variable rate debt and investments would change our future earnings and cash flows, but not significantly affect the fair value of those instruments. assuming a one percentage point increase in the interest rate related to the variable-rate investments and variable-rate debt, and assuming no change in the outstanding balance as of december 31, 2009, net interest income would improve by approximately $3.1 million, or $0.01 per common share on a diluted basis. assuming a 50 basis point decrease in interest rates under the above circumstances and taking into consideration that the index underlying many of our arrangements is currently below 50 basis points and is not expected to go below zero, net interest income would decline by $1.6 million, or less than $0.01 per common share on a diluted basis. we use derivative financial instruments in the normal course of business to manage or hedge interest rate risk. we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. derivatives are recorded on the consolidated balance sheet at their estimated fair value. see note 24 to the consolidated financial statements in this report for further information. to illustrate the effect of movements in the interest rate markets, we performed a market sensitivity analysis on our hedging instruments. we applied various basis point spreads, to the underlying interest rate curves of the derivative portfolio in order to determine the instruments' change in estimated fair value. assuming a one percentage point change in the underlying interest rate curve, the estimated change in fair value of each of the underlying derivative instruments would not exceed $4.3 million. market risk. we are directly and indirectly affected by changes in the equity and bond markets. we have investments in marketable debt and equity securities classified as available-for-sale. gains and losses on these securities are recognized in income when realized and losses are recognized when an other-than-temporary decline in value is identified. the initial indicator of an other-than-temporary decline in value for marketable equity securities is a sustained decline in market price below the carrying value for an extended period of time. we consider a variety of factors in evaluating an other-than-temporary decline in value, such as: the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been less than our cost; the issuer's financial condition, capital strength and near-term prospects; any recent events specific to that issuer and economic conditions of its industry; and our 60 table of contents investment horizon in relationship to an anticipated near-term recovery in the stock or bond price, if any. at december 31, 2009, the fair value and cost, or the adjusted cost basis for those securities where a recognized loss was recorded, of marketable equity securities was $3.5 million and $3.7 million, respectively, and the fair value and cost basis of marketable debt securities was $172.8 million and $160.8 million, respectively. the principal amount and the average interest rates for our loans receivable and debt categorized by maturity dates is presented in the table below. the fair value for our debt securities and senior unsecured notes payable are based on prevailing market prices. the fair value estimates for loans receivable and mortgage debt payable are based on discounting future cash flows utilizing current rates offered to us for loans and debt of the same type and remaining maturity. maturity 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 thereafter total fair value (dollars in thousands) assets: loans receivable $ 94,773 $ 2,896 $ $ 1,718,483 $ 1,632 $ 35,308 $ 1,853,092 $ 1,728,599 weighted-average interest rate 13.35 % 10.44 % % 3.22 % 11.00 % 8.50 % 3.86 % debt securities available for sale $ $ $ $ $ $ 172,799 $ 172,799 $ 172,799 weighted-average interest rate % % % % % 9.58 % 9.58 % liabilities (1) : variable-rate debt: term loan $ $ 200,000 $ $ $ $ $ 200,000 $ 200,000 weighted-average interest rate % 2.70 % % % % % 2.70 % senior unsecured notes payable $ $ $ $ $ 25,000 $ $ 25,000 $ 22,793 weighted-average interest rate % % % % 1.22 % % 1.22 % mortgage debt payable $ 7,680 $ 39,752 $ 8,544 $ 430,957 $ $ 10,495 $ 497,428 $ 453,985 weighted-average interest rate 1.85 % 1.75 % 1.94 % 1.54 % % 0.99 % 1.56 % fixed-rate debt: senior unsecured notes payable (2) $ 206,421 $ 292,265 $ 250,000 $ 550,000 $ 62,000 $ 2,150,000 $ 3,510,686 $ 3,526,133 weighted-average interest rate 5.17 % 6.13 % 6.67 % 5.83 % 6.34 % 6.45 % 6.27 % mortgage debt payable $ 72,010 $ 85,817 $ 32,558 $ 235,581 $ 201,762 $ 706,784 $ 1,334,512 $ 1,336,007 weighted-average interest rate 8.14 % 6.34 % 6.34 % 6.11 % 5.86 % 6.10 % 6.20 % (1) excludes $99.9 million of other debt that represents non-interest bearing life care bonds and occupancy fee deposits at three of our senior housing facilities, which have no scheduled maturities. (2) effective interest rate includes an interest rate swap contract (pay float and receive fixed) designated in a qualifying hedging relationship with a notional amount of $250 million that terminates in september 2011. the interest rate swap contact had a fixed rate of 5.95% and a floating rate of libor plus 4.21% at december 31, 2009.risk factors 14 healthcare segments senior housing. at december 31, 2010, we had interests in 251 senior housing facilities, including 25 facilities owned by our investment management platform. senior housing facilities include independent living facilities ("ilfs"), assisted living facilities ("alfs") and continuing care retirement communities ("ccrcs"), which cater to different segments of the elderly population based upon their needs. services provided by our operators or tenants in these facilities are primarily paid for by the residents directly or through private insurance and are less reliant on government reimbursement programs such as medicaid and medicare. our senior housing property types are further described below: independent living facilities. ilfs are designed to meet the needs of seniors who choose to live in an environment surrounded by their peers with services such as housekeeping, meals and activities. these residents generally do not need assistance with activities of daily living ("adl"), such as bathing, eating and dressing. however, residents have the option to contract for these services. at december 31, 2010, we had interests in 45 ilfs. assisted living facilities. alfs are licensed care facilities that provide personal care services, support and housing for those who need help with adl yet require limited medical care. the programs and services may include transportation, social activities, exercise and fitness programs, beauty or barber shop access, hobby and craft activities, community excursions, meals in a dining room setting and other activities sought by residents. these facilities are often in apartment-like buildings with private residences ranging from single rooms to large apartments. certain alfs may offer higher levels of personal assistance for residents with alzheimer's disease or other 5 table of contents forms of dementia. levels of personal assistance are based in part on local regulations. at december 31, 2010, we had interests in 194 alfs. continuing care retirement communities. ccrcs provide housing and health-related services under long-term contracts. this alternative is appealing to residents as it eliminates the need for relocating when health and medical needs change, thus allowing residents to "age in place." some ccrcs require a substantial entry or buy-in fee and most also charge monthly maintenance fees in exchange for a living unit, meals and some health services. ccrcs typically require the individual to be in relatively good health and independent upon entry. at december 31, 2010, we had interests in 12 ccrcs. our investment management platform represents the following unconsolidated joint ventures: (i) hcp ventures ii, (ii) hcp ventures iii, llc, (iii) hcp ventures iv, llc, and (iv) the hcp life science ventures. on january 14, 2011, the company acquired its partner's 65% interest in hcp ventures ii, becoming the sole owner of this 25 senior housing property portfolio ("hcp ventures ii acquisition"). for a more detailed description of these unconsolidated joint ventures, see note 8 of the consolidated financial statements. our senior housing segment accounted for approximately 31%, 30% and 30% of total revenues for the years ended december 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. the following table provides information about our senior housing operator concentration for the year ended december 31, 2010: operators percentage of segment revenues percentage of total revenues emeritus corporation ("emeritus") (1) 32 % 10 % sunrise senior living, inc. ("sunrise") (1) (2) 25 % 8 % brookdale senior living inc. ("brookdale") 18 % 5 % (1) 27 properties formerly operated by sunrise were transitioned to emeritus effective november 1, 2010. the percentage of segment revenues and total revenues for sunrise excludes revenues from the transitioned properties, which are included in the revenues for emeritus. (2) certain of our properties are leased to tenants who have entered into management contracts with sunrise to operate the respective property on their behalf. to determine our concentration of revenues generated from properties operated by sunrise, we aggregate revenue from these tenants with revenue generated from the two properties that are leased directly to sunrise. life science. at december 31, 2010, we had interests in 102 life science properties, including four facilities owned by our investment management platform. these properties contain laboratory and office space primarily for biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, scientific research institutions, government agencies and other organizations involved in the life science industry. while these properties contain similar characteristics to commercial office buildings, they generally contain more advanced electrical, mechanical, and heating, ventilating, and air conditioning ("hvac") systems. the facilities generally have equipment including emergency generators, fume hoods, lab bench tops and related amenities. in many instances, life science tenants make significant investments to improve their leased space, in addition to landlord improvements, to accommodate biology or chemistry research initiatives. life science properties are primarily configured in business park or campus settings and include multiple facilities and buildings. the business park and campus settings allow us the opportunity to provide flexible, contiguous/adjacent expansion that accommodates the growth of existing tenants in place. our properties are located in well established geographical markets known for scientific research, including san francisco, san diego and salt lake city. 6 table of contents our life science segment accounted for approximately 22%, 22% and 21% of total revenues for the years ended december 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 respectively. the following table provides information about our life science tenant concentration for the year ended december 31, 2010: tenants percentage of segment revenues percentage of total revenues genentech, inc. ("genentech") 20 % 4 % amgen, inc. 18 % 4 % medical office. at december 31, 2010, we had interests in 253 medical office buildings ("mobs"), including 66 facilities owned by our investment management platform. these facilities typically contain physicians' offices and examination rooms, and may also include pharmacies, hospital ancillary service space and outpatient services such as diagnostic centers, rehabilitation clinics and day-surgery operating rooms. while these facilities are similar to commercial office buildings, they require additional plumbing, electrical and mechanical systems to accommodate multiple exam rooms that may require sinks in every room, and special equipment such as x-ray machines. in addition, mobs are often built to accommodate higher structural loads for certain equipment and may contain "vaults" or other specialized construction. our mobs are typically multi-tenant properties leased to healthcare providers (hospitals and physician practices) and are primarily located on hospital campuses. approximately 83% of our mobs, based on square feet, are located on hospital campuses. our medical office segment accounted for approximately 25%, 27% and 27% of total revenues for the years ended december 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. during the year ended december 31, 2010, hca, inc. ("hca"), as our tenant, contributed 13% of our medical office segment revenues. post-acute/skilled nursing. at december 31, 2010, we had interests in 45 post-acute/skilled nursing facilities ("snfs"). snfs offer restorative, rehabilitative and custodial nursing care for people not requiring the more extensive and sophisticated treatment available at hospitals. ancillary revenues and revenues from sub-acute care services are derived from providing services to residents beyond room and board and include occupational, physical, speech, respiratory and intravenous therapy, wound care, oncology treatment, brain injury care and orthopedic therapy as well as sales of pharmaceutical products and other services. certain snfs provide some of the foregoing services on an out-patient basis. post-acute/skilled nursing services provided by our operators and tenants in these facilities are primarily paid for either by private sources or through the medicare and medicaid programs. all of our snfs are leased to single tenants under triple-net lease structures. in addition to our interests in snfs, at december 31, 2010 our post-acute/skilled nursing segment includes debt investments in hcr manorcare, inc. ("hcr manorcare") and genesis healthcare ("genesis"), with par values of $1.72 billion and $328 million, respectively, at december 31, 2010. on december 13, 2010, we signed a definitive agreement to acquire substantially all of the real estate assets of hcr manorcare, for a total consideration of $6.1 billion (the "hcr manorcare acquisition") that includes: (i) $3.53 billion in cash; (ii) $1.72 billion (par value) reinvestment of our existing debt investments in hcr manorcare; and (iii) subject to certain adjustments, 25.7 million shares of our common stock to be issued directly to the shareholders of hcr manorcare, or, at our option, a cash equivalent of $852 million. upon closing, we will acquire 334 hcr manorcare post-acute, skilled nursing and assisted living facilities. a wholly-owned subsidiary of hcr manorcare will continue to operate the assets pursuant to a long-term triple-net master lease supported by a guaranty from hcr manorcare. for a more detailed description of the hcr manorcare acquisition and these debt investments, see notes 5 and 7, respectively, to the consolidated financial statements. our post-acute/skilled nursing segment accounted for approximately 12%, 10% and 11% of total revenues for the years ended december 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. the following table 7 table of contents provides information about our post-acute/skilled nursing operator/tenant concentration for the year ended december 31, 2010: operators/tenants and borrowers percentage of segment revenues percentage of total revenues hcr manorcare (1) 71 % 9 % covenant care 6 % 1 % genesis (2) 5 % 1 % (1) subsequent to closing the hcr manorcare acquisition discussed above, we expect a significant increase in revenues earned from hcr manorcare. (2) in september and october 2010, we acquired debt investments in genesis with an aggregate par value of $328 million. the percentages of segment and total revenues presented for genesis reflect revenues for a partial year. hospital. at december 31, 2010, we had interests in 21 hospitals, including four facilities owned by our investment management platform. services provided by our operators and tenants in these facilities are paid for by private sources, third-party payors (e.g., insurance and health maintenance organizations or "hmos"), or through the medicare and medicaid programs. our hospital property types include acute care, long-term acute care, specialty and rehabilitation hospitals. our hospitals are all leased to single tenants or operators under triple-net lease structures. in addition to our interests in hospitals, our hospital segment also includes mezzanine and mortgage loan investments, which at december 31, 2010 aggregated to $107 million. our hospital segment accounted for approximately 10%, 11% and 11% of total revenues for the years ended december 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. the following table provides information about our hospital operator/tenant concentration for the year ended december 31, 2010: operators/tenants and borrowers percentage of segment revenues percentage of total revenues hca 28 % 6% (1) tenet healthcare corporation ("tenet") 19 % 2 % (1) percentage of total revenues from hca includes revenues earned from both our medical office and hospital segments. during the year ended december 31, 2010, we sold our remaining hca debt investments of $141 million, which contributed $10 million of interest income during 2010. investment products properties under lease. we primarily generate revenue by leasing properties under long-term leases. most of our rents and other earned income from leases are received under triple-net leases or leases that provide for a substantial recovery of operating expenses. however, some of our mobs and life science facility rents are structured under gross or modified gross leases. accordingly, for such gross or modified gross leases, we incur certain property operating expenses, such as real estate taxes, repairs and maintenance, property management fees, utilities and insurance. our ability to grow income from properties under lease depends, in part, on our ability to (i) increase rental income and other earned income from leases by increasing rental rates and occupancy levels, (ii) maximize tenant recoveries and (iii) control non-recoverable operating expenses. most of our leases include contractual annual base rent escalation clauses that are either predetermined fixed increases and/or are a function of an inflation index. debt investments. our mezzanine loans are generally secured by a pledge of ownership interests of an entity or entities, which directly or indirectly own properties, and are subordinate to more senior debt, including mortgages and more senior mezzanine loans. our interests in mortgages are issued by healthcare providers and are generally secured by healthcare real estate. 8 table of contents developments and redevelopments. we generally commit to development projects that are at least 50% pre-leased or when we believe that market conditions will support speculative construction. we work closely with our local real estate service providers, including brokerage, property management, project management and construction management companies to assist us in evaluating development proposals and completing developments. our development and redevelopment investments are primarily in our life science and medical office segments. redevelopments are properties that require significant capital expenditures (generally more than 25% of acquisition cost or existing basis) to achieve property stabilization or to change the primary use of the properties. investment management. we co-invest in real estate properties with institutional investors through joint ventures structured as partnerships or limited liability companies. we target institutional investors with long-term investment horizons who seek to benefit from our expertise in healthcare real estate. predominantly, we retain noncontrolling interests in the joint ventures ranging from 20% to 35% and serve as the managing member. these ventures generally allow us to earn acquisition and asset management fees, and have the potential for promoted interests or incentive distributions based on performance of the joint venture. non-managing member llc ("downreits"). our downreit structures enable us to acquire and hold real estate in operating downreit limited liability companies ("llcs"). in connection with the formation of certain downreit llcs, many members contribute appreciated real estate to the downreit llc in exchange for downreit units that can be exchanged at some future date for shares of our stock or, at our election, redeemed for cash. these contributions are generally tax-deferred, so that the pre-contribution gain related to the real estate is not taxed to the contributing member. however, if the contributed real estate is later sold by the downreit llc, the unamortized pre-contribution gain that exists at the date of sale is specifically allocated and taxed to the contributing members. in many of these downreits, we entered into indemnification agreements with our members, under which, if any of the appreciated real estate contributed by the members is sold by the downreit in a taxable transaction within a specified number of years after the property was contributed, we will reimburse the affected members for the income taxes associated with the pre-contribution gain that is specifically allocated to the affected member. since the formation of our first downreit llc, we have acquired more than $1.0 billion of real estate utilizing downreit structures. portfolio summary at december 31, 2010, we managed $14.5 billion of investments in our owned portfolio and investment management platform. at december 31, 2010, we also owned $467 million of assets under development, including redevelopment, and land held for future development. 9 table of contents owned portfolio as of december 31, 2010, our properties under lease and debt investments in our owned portfolio consisted of the following (square feet and dollars in thousands): investment (2) year ended december 31, 2010 segment number of properties capacity (1) properties under lease debt total investment noi (3) interest income (4) senior housing 226 25,822 units $ 4,231,788 $ (5) $ 4,231,788 $ 354,075 $ 364 life science 98 6,508 sq. ft. 3,135,271 3,135,271 228,270 medical office 187 12,965 sq. ft. 2,226,076 2,226,076 181,981 post-acute/snf 45 5,331 beds 244,738 1,895,538 (6) 2,140,276 37,042 121,703 hospital 17 2,368 beds 648,346 107,328 (5) 755,674 78,661 38,096 total 573 $ 10,486,219 $ 2,002,866 $ 12,489,085 $ 880,029 $ 160,163 see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on our business segments. (1) senior housing facilities are measured in units (e.g., studio, one or two bedroom units). life science facilities and medical office buildings are measured in square feet. snfs and hospitals are measured in licensed bed count. (2) property investments represent: (i) the carrying amount of real estate and intangibles, after adding back accumulated depreciation and amortization; and (ii) the carrying amount of direct financing leases. debt investment represents the carrying amount of mezzanine, mortgage and other secured loan investments. (3) net operating income from continuing operations ("noi") is a non-gaap supplemental financial measure used to evaluate the operating performance of real estate properties. for the reconciliation of noi to net income for 2010, refer to note 14 in our consolidated financial statements. (4) interest income represents interest earned from our debt investments. (5) senior housing interest income includes amounts earned from secured loans that matured or paid off in 2010. hospital interest income includes amounts earned from debt securities that were sold in 2010. (6) at december 31, 2010, our debt investments with a carrying value of $1.6 billion (par value of $1.72 billion) in hcr manorcare will be paid off at closing of the hcr manorcare acquisition. for a more detailed description of the hcr manorcare acquisition, see note 5 of the consolidated financial statements. developments and redevelopments at december 31, 2010, in addition to our investments in properties under lease and debt investments, we have an aggregate investment of $467 million in assets under development, including redevelopment, and land held for future development, primarily in our life science and medical office segments. 10 table of contents investment management platform as of december 31, 2010, our investment management platform consisted of the following properties under lease (square feet and dollars in thousands): segment number of properties capacity (1) hcp's ownership interest joint venture investment (2) total revenues total operating expenses senior housing (3) 25 5,621 units 35% $ 1,101,270 $ 73,193 $ 15 medical office (4) 66 3,383 sq. ft. 20 - 30% 705,537 76,379 31,755 life science 4 278 sq. ft. 50 - 63% 143,378 11,542 1,525 hospital 4 n/a (5) 20% 81,382 7,894 1,145 total 99 $ 2,031,567 $ 169,008 $ 34,440 (1) senior housing facilities are measured in units (e.g., studio, one or two bedroom units), life science facilities and medical office buildings are measured in square feet and hospitals are measured in licensed bed count. (2) represents the joint ventures' carrying amount of real estate and intangibles, after adding back accumulated depreciation and amortization. (3) on january 14, 2011, we acquired our partner's 65% interest and became the sole owner of this 25 senior housing property portfolio. for additional information regarding hcp ventures ii see note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. (4) during 2010, one mob was placed into redevelopment; its statistics are not included in the medical office information. (5) information not provided by the respective operator or tenant. employees of hcp at december 31, 2010, we had 148 full-time employees, none of whom is subject to a collective bargaining agreement. government regulation, licensing and enforcement overview our tenants and operators are typically subject to extensive and complex federal, state and local healthcare laws and regulations relating to fraud and abuse practices, government reimbursement, licensure and certificate of need and similar laws governing the operation of healthcare facilities. these regulations are wide-ranging and can subject our tenants and operators to civil, criminal and administrative sanctions. affected tenants and operators may find it increasingly difficult to comply with this complex and evolving regulatory environment because of a relative lack of guidance in many areas as certain of our healthcare properties are subject to oversight from several government agencies and the laws may vary from one jurisdiction to another. changes in laws and regulations and reimbursement enforcement activity and regulatory non-compliance by our tenants and operators can all have a significant effect on their operations and financial condition, which in turn may adversely impact us, as detailed below and set forth under "risk factors" in item 1a. we seek to mitigate the risk to us resulting from the significant healthcare regulatory risks faced by our tenants and operators by diversifying our portfolio among property types and geographical areas, diversifying our tenant and operator base to limit our exposure to any single entity, and seeking tenants and operators who are not largely dependent on medicaid reimbursement for their revenues. based on information primarily provided by our tenants and operators, excluding our medical office segment, at december 31, 2010 we estimate that approximately 7% and 4% of the annualized base rental payments received from our tenants and operators are dependant on medicare and medicaid reimbursement, respectively. 11 table of contents the following is a discussion of certain laws and regulations generally applicable to our operators and in certain cases, to us. fraud and abuse enforcement there are various extremely complex federal and state laws and regulations governing healthcare providers' relationships and arrangements and prohibiting fraudulent and abusive practices by such providers. these laws include (i) federal and state false claims acts, which, among other things, prohibit providers from filing false claims or making false statements to receive payment from medicare, medicaid or other federal or state healthcare programs, (ii) federal and state anti-kickback and fee-splitting statutes, including the medicare and medicaid anti-kickback statute, which prohibit the payment or receipt of remuneration to induce referrals or recommendations of healthcare items or services, (iii) federal and state physician self-referral laws (commonly referred to as the "stark law"), which generally prohibit referrals by physicians to entities with which the physician or an immediate family member has a financial relationship, (iv) the federal civil monetary penalties law, which prohibits, among other things, the knowing presentation of a false or fraudulent claim for certain healthcare services and (v) federal and state privacy laws, including the privacy and security rules contained in the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1997, which provide for the privacy and security of personal health information. violations of healthcare fraud and abuse laws carry civil, criminal and administrative sanctions, including punitive sanctions, monetary penalties, imprisonment, denial of medicare and medicaid reimbursement and potential exclusion from medicare, medicaid or other federal or state healthcare programs. these laws are enforced by a variety of federal, state and local agencies and can also be enforced by private litigants through, among other things, federal and state false claims acts, which allow private litigants to bring qui tam or "whistleblower" actions. many of our operators and tenants are subject to these laws, and some of them may in the future become the subject of governmental enforcement actions if they fail to comply with applicable laws. reimbursement sources of revenue for many of our tenants and operators include, among other sources, governmental healthcare programs, such as the federal medicare program and state medicaid programs, and non-governmental payors, such as insurance carriers and health maintenance organizations. as federal and state governments focus on healthcare reform initiatives, and as many states face significant budget deficits, efforts to reduce costs by these payors will likely continue, which may result in reduced or slower growth in reimbursement for certain services provided by some of our tenants and operators. healthcare licensure and certificate of need certain healthcare facilities in our portfolio are subject to extensive federal, state and local licensure, certification and inspection laws and regulations. in addition, various licenses and permits are required to dispense narcotics, operate pharmacies, handle radioactive materials and operate equipment. many states require certain healthcare providers to obtain a certificate of need, which requires prior approval for the construction, expansion and closure of certain healthcare facilities. the approval process related to state certificate of need laws may impact some of our tenants' and operators' abilities to expand or change their businesses. life science facilities while certain of our life science tenants include some well-established companies, other such tenants are less established and, in some cases, may not yet have a product approved by the food and drug administration or other regulatory authorities for commercial sale. creating a new 12 table of contents pharmaceutical product requires substantial investments of time and money, in part, because of the extensive regulation of the healthcare industry; it also entails considerable risk of failure in demonstrating that the product is safe and effective and in gaining regulatory approval and market acceptance. senior housing entrance fee communities certain of the senior housing facilities mortgaged to or owned by us are operated as entrance fee communities. generally, an entrance fee is an upfront fee or consideration paid by a resident, a portion of which may be refundable, in exchange for some form of long-term benefit. some of the entrance fee communities are subject to significant state regulatory oversight, including, for example, oversight of each facility's financial condition, establishment and monitoring of reserve requirements and other financial restrictions, the right of residents to cancel their contracts within a specified period of time, lien rights in favor of the residents, restrictions on change of ownership and similar matters. americans with disabilities act (the "ada") our properties must comply with the ada and any similar state or local laws to the extent that such properties are "public accommodations" as defined in those statutes. the ada may require removal of barriers to access by persons with disabilities in certain public areas of our properties where such removal is readily achievable. to date, we have not received any notices of noncompliance with the ada that have caused us to incur substantial capital expenditures to address ada concerns. should barriers to access by persons with disabilities be discovered at any of our properties, we may be directly or indirectly responsible for additional costs that may be required to make facilities ada-compliant. noncompliance with the ada could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. the obligation to make readily achievable accommodations pursuant to the ada is an ongoing one, and we continue to assess our properties and make modifications as appropriate in this respect. environmental matters a wide variety of federal, state and local environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations affect healthcare facility operations. these complex federal and state statutes, and their enforcement, involve myriad regulations, many of which involve strict liability on the part of the potential offender. some of these federal and state statutes may directly impact us. under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner of real property or a secured lender, such as us, may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances at, under or disposed of in connection with such property, as well as other potential costs relating to hazardous or toxic substances (including government fines and damages for injuries to persons and adjacent property). the cost of any required remediation, removal, fines or personal or property damages and the owner's or secured lender's liability therefore could exceed or impair the value of the property, and/or the assets of the owner or secured lender. in addition, the presence of such substances, or the failure to properly dispose of or remediate such substances, may adversely affect the owner's ability to sell or rent such property or to borrow using such property as collateral which, in turn, could reduce our revenues. for a description of the risks associated with environmental matters, see "risk factors" in item 1a of this report. 13 table of contents item 1a. risk factors the section below discusses the most significant risk factors that may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. as set forth below, we believe that the risks facing our company generally fall into the following four categories: risks related to our business; risks related to tax matters including reit-related risks; and risks related to our legal organizational structure. risks related to our business volatility in the financial markets may impair our ability to raise capital, obtain new financing or refinance existing obligations and fund real estate and development activities. the global financial markets recently have undergone and may continue to experience pervasive and fundamental disruptions. while the capital markets have shown signs of improvement, the sustainability of an economic recovery is uncertain and additional levels of market disruption and volatility could materially adversely impact our ability to raise capital, obtain new financing or refinance our existing obligations as they mature and fund real estate and development activities. market volatility could also lead to significant uncertainty in the valuation of our investments and those of our joint ventures, that may result in a substantial decrease in the value of our properties and those of our joint ventures. as a result, we may not be able to recover the carrying amount of such investments and the associated goodwill, if any, which may require us to recognize impairment charges in earnings. we rely on external sources of capital to fund future capital needs and if our access to such capital is unavailable, limited or on unfavorable terms, we may not be able to meet commitments as they become due or make future investments necessary to grow our business. we may not be able to fund, from cash retained from operations, all future capital needs. if we are unable to obtain internally needed capital, we might not be able to make the investments needed to grow our business and to meet our obligations and commitments as they mature. as a result, we rely on external sources of capital, including debt and equity financing, to fulfill our capital requirements. our access to capital depends upon a number of factors, some of which we have little or no control over, including but not limited to: general availability of credit and market conditions, including rising interest rates and increased borrowing cost; the market price of the shares of our equity securities and the credit ratings of our debt and preferred securities; the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions; our degree of financial leverage and operational flexibility; financial integrity of our lenders that might impair their ability to meet their commitments to us or their willingness to make additional loans to us, and our inability to replace the financing commitment of any such lender on favorable terms, or at all; the stability in the market value of our properties; 14 table of contents the financial performance of our operators, tenants and borrowers; and issues facing the healthcare industry, including, but not limited to, healthcare reform and changes in government reimbursement policies. if our access to capital is limited by these factors or other factors, it could have a material adverse impact on our ability to refinance our debt obligations, fund dividend payments, acquire properties and fund operations and development activities. adverse changes in our credit ratings could impair our ability to obtain additional debt and equity financing on favorable terms, if at all, and negatively impact the market price of our securities, including our common stock. the credit ratings of our senior unsecured debt and preferred equity securities are based on our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position and other factors employed by the credit rating agencies in their rating analyses of us. our credit ratings can affect the amount and type of capital we can access, as well as the terms of any financings we may obtain. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings and in the event that our current credit ratings deteriorate, we would likely incur higher borrowing costs and it may be more difficult or expensive to obtain additional financing or refinance existing obligations and commitments. also, a downgrade in our credit ratings would trigger additional costs or other potentially negative consequences under our current and future credit facilities and debt instruments. our level of indebtedness may increase and materially adversely affect our future operations. our indebtedness as of december 31, 2010 was approximately $4.6 billion, and after giving effect to the sale of unsecured notes issued on january 24, 2011 was approximately $7.0 billion. we may incur additional indebtedness in the future, including in connection with the development or acquisition of assets, which may be substantial. any significant additional indebtedness could negatively affect the credit ratings of our debt and require a substantial portion of our cash flow to make interest and principal payments due on our indebtedness. greater demands on our cash resources may reduce funds available to us to pay dividends, conduct development activities, make capital expenditures and acquisitions, or carry out other aspects of our business strategy. increased indebtedness can also limit our ability to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions, make us more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions and create competitive disadvantages for us compared to other companies with relatively lower debt levels. increased future debt service obligations may limit our operational flexibility, including our ability to finance or refinance our properties, contribute properties to joint ventures or sell properties as needed. covenants related to our indebtedness limit our operational flexibility and breaches of these covenants could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. our unsecured credit facilities, unsecured debt securities and secured debt and other indebtedness that we may incur in the future, require or will require us to comply with a number of customary financial and other covenants, such as maintaining certain levels of debt service coverage, leverage ratio, tangible net worth requirements and reit status. our continued ability to incur indebtedness and operate in general is subject to compliance with these financial and other covenants, which limit our operational flexibility. for example, mortgages on our properties contain customary covenants such as those that limit or restrict our ability, without the consent of the lender, to further encumber or sell the applicable properties, or to replace the applicable tenant or operator. breaches of certain covenants may result in defaults under the mortgages on our properties and cross-defaults under certain of our other indebtedness, even if we satisfy our payment obligations to the respective obligee. additionally, defaults under the leases or operating agreements related to mortgaged properties, including defaults 15 table of contents associated with the bankruptcy of the applicable tenant or operator, may result in a default under the underlying mortgage and cross-defaults under certain of our other indebtedness. covenants that limit our operational flexibility as well as defaults under our debt instruments could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. an increase in interest rates could increase interest cost on new debt, and could materially adversely impact our ability to refinance existing debt, sell assets and limit our acquisition and development activities. if interest rates increase, so could our interest costs for any new debt. this increased cost could make the financing of any acquisition and development activity more costly. rising interest rates could limit our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures, or cause us to pay higher interest rates upon refinancing and increase interest expense on refinanced indebtedness. in addition, an increase in interest rates could decrease the amount third parties are willing to pay for our assets, thereby limiting our ability to reposition our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. unfavorable resolution of pending and future litigation matters and disputes, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. from time to time, we may be directly involved in a number of legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims. see "legal proceedings" in part i, item 3 in this report for a discussion of certain legal proceedings in which we are involved. we may also be named as defendants in lawsuits allegedly arising out of our actions or the actions of our operators and tenants in which such operators and tenants have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with their respective businesses. an unfavorable resolution of pending or future litigation may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. regardless of its outcome, litigation may result in substantial costs and expenses and significantly divert the attention of management. there can be no assurance that we will be able to prevail in, or achieve a favorable settlement of, pending or future litigation. in addition, pending litigation or future litigation, government proceedings or environmental matters could lead to increased costs or interruption of our normal business operations. a small number of operators, tenants and borrowers account for a large percentage of our revenues. during the year ended december 31, 2010, approximately 38% of our total revenues are generated by our leasing or financial arrangements with the following five companies: emeritus 10%; hcr manorcare 9%; sunrise 8%; hca 6%; and brookdale 5%. upon closing the anticipated hcr manorcare acquisition in march 2011, revenues earned from hcr manorcare will increase significantly. the failure or inability of these operators, tenants or borrowers to meet their obligations to us could materially reduce our cash flow as well as our results of operations, which could in turn reduce the amount of dividends we pay, cause our stock price to decline and have other material adverse effects on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we may be unable to successfully foreclose on the collateral securing our real estate-related loans, and even if we are successful in our foreclosure efforts, we may be unable to successfully operate or occupy the underlying real estate, which may adversely affect our ability to recover our investments. if an operator or tenant defaults under one of our mortgages or mezzanine loans, we may have to foreclose on the loan or protect our interest by acquiring title to the collateral. in some cases, as noted above, the collateral consists of the equity interests in an entity that directly or indirectly owns the applicable real property and, accordingly, we may not have full recourse to assets of that entity. operators, tenants or borrowers may contest enforcement of foreclosure or other remedies, seek bankruptcy protection against our exercise of enforcement or other remedies and/or bring claims for lender liability in response to actions to enforce mortgage obligations. foreclosure-related costs, high 16 table of contents loan-to-value ratios or declines in the value of the facility may prevent us from realizing an amount equal to our mortgage or mezzanine loan upon foreclosure. even if we are able to successfully foreclose on the collateral securing our real estate-related loans, we may inherit properties for which we may be unable to expeditiously seek tenants or operators, if at all, which would adversely affect our ability to fully recover our investment. required regulatory approvals can delay or prohibit transfers of our healthcare facilities. transfers of healthcare facilities to successor tenants or operators may be subject to regulatory approvals, including change of ownership approvals under certificate of need laws and medicare and medicaid provider arrangements, that are not required for transfers of other types of commercial operations and other types of real estate. the replacement of any tenant or operator could be delayed by the regulatory approval process of any federal, state or local government agency necessary for the transfer of the facility or the replacement of the operator licensed to manage the facility. if we are unable to find a suitable replacement tenant or operator upon favorable terms, or at all, we may take possession of a facility, which might expose us to successor liability or require us to indemnify subsequent operators to whom we might transfer the operating rights and licenses, all of which may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. competition may make it difficult to identify and purchase, or develop, suitable healthcare facilities, to grow our investment portfolio. we face significant competition from other reits, investment companies, private equity and hedge fund investors, sovereign funds, healthcare operators, lenders, developers and other institutional investors, some of whom may have greater resources and lower costs of capital than us. increased competition makes it more challenging for us to identify and successfully capitalize on opportunities that meet our business goals. if we cannot capitalize on our development pipeline, identify and purchase a sufficient quantity of healthcare facilities at favorable prices or if we are unable to finance acquisitions on commercially favorable terms, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. we may be required to incur substantial renovation costs to make certain of our healthcare properties suitable for other operators and tenants. healthcare facilities are typically highly customized and may not be easily adapted to non-healthcare-related uses. the improvements generally required to conform a property to healthcare use, such as upgrading electrical, gas and plumbing infrastructure, are costly and at times tenant-specific. a new or replacement operator or tenant may require different features in a property, depending on that operator's or tenant's particular operations. if a current operator or tenant is unable to pay rent and vacates a property, we may incur substantial expenditures to modify a property before we are able to secure another operator or tenant. also, if the property needs to be renovated to accommodate multiple operators or tenants, we may incur substantial expenditures before we are able to re-lease the space. these expenditures or renovations may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 17 table of contents we face additional risks associated with property development that can render a project less profitable or not profitable at all and, under certain circumstances, prevent completion of development activities once undertaken. large-scale, ground-up development of healthcare properties presents additional risks for us, including risks that: a development opportunity may be abandoned after expending significant resources resulting in the loss of deposits or failure to recover expenses already incurred; the development and construction costs of a project may exceed original estimates due to increased interest rates and higher materials, transportation, labor, leasing or other costs, which could make the completion of the development project less profitable; construction and/or permanent financing may not be available on favorable terms or at all; the project may not be completed on schedule, which can result in increases in construction costs and debt service expenses as a result of a variety of factors that are beyond our control, including: natural disasters, labor conditions, material shortages, regulatory hurdles, civil unrest and acts of war; and occupancy rates and rents at a newly completed property may not meet expected levels and could be insufficient to make the property profitable. these risks could result in substantial unanticipated delays or expenses and, under certain circumstances, could prevent completion of development activities once undertaken, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our use of joint ventures may limit our flexibility with jointly owned investments. we may develop and/or acquire properties in joint ventures with other persons or entities when circumstances warrant the use of these structures. our participation in joint ventures is subject to risks that: we could experience an impasse on certain decisions because we do not have sole decision-making authority, which could require us to expend additional resources on resolving such impasses or potential disputes; our joint venture partners could have investment goals that are not consistent with our investment objectives, including the timing, terms and strategies for any investments; our joint venture partners might become bankrupt, fail to fund their share of required capital contributions or fail to fulfill their obligations as a joint venture partner, which may require us to infuse our own capital into the venture on behalf of the partner despite other competing uses for such capital; and our joint venture partners may have competing interests in our markets that could create conflict of interest issues. from time to time, we acquire other companies and if we are unable to successfully integrate these operations, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. acquisitions require the integration of companies that have previously operated independently. successful integration of the operations of these companies depends primarily on our ability to consolidate operations, systems, procedures, properties and personnel and to eliminate redundancies and costs. we may encounter difficulties in these integrations. potential difficulties associated with acquisitions include the loss of key employees, the disruption of our ongoing business or that of the 18 table of contents acquired entity, possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies and the assumption of unexpected liabilities. in addition, the acquired companies and their properties may fail to perform as expected, including in respect of estimated cost savings. inaccurate assumptions regarding future rental or occupancy rates could result in overly optimistic estimates of future revenues. similarly, we may underestimate future operating expenses or the costs necessary to bring properties up to standards established for their intended use. if we have difficulties with any of these areas, or if we later discover additional liabilities or experience unforeseen costs relating to our acquired companies, we might not achieve the economic benefits we expect from our acquisitions, and this may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. from time to time we have made, and in the future we may seek to make, one or more material acquisitions, which may involve the expenditure of significant funds. we regularly review potential transactions in order to maximize shareholder value and believe that currently there are available a number of acquisition opportunities that would be complementary to our business, given the recent industry consolidation trend. in connection with our review of such transactions, we regularly engage in discussions with potential acquisition candidates, some of which are material. any future acquisitions could require the issuance of securities, the incurrence of debt, assumption of contingent liabilities or incurrence of significant expenditures, any of which could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, the financing required for such acquisitions may not be available on commercially favorable terms or at all. loss of our key personnel could temporarily disrupt our operations and adversely affect us we are dependent on the efforts of our executive officers. although our chief executive officer has an employment agreement with us, we cannot assure you that he will remain employed with us. the loss or limited availability of the services of our chief executive officer or any of our executive officers, or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could, at least temporarily, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and be negatively perceived in the capital markets. we may experience uninsured or underinsured losses, which could result in a significant loss of the capital we have invested in a property, decrease anticipated future revenues or cause us to incur unanticipated expense. we maintain comprehensive insurance coverage on our properties with terms, conditions, limits and deductibles that we believe are adequate and appropriate given the relative risk and costs of such coverage. however, a large number of our properties are located in areas exposed to earthquake, windstorm, flood and other natural disasters and may be subject to other losses. in particular, our life science portfolio is concentrated in areas known to be subject to earthquake activity. while we purchase insurance for earthquake, windstorm, flood and other natural disasters that we believe is adequate in light of current industry practice and analysis prepared by outside consultants, there is no assurance that such insurance will fully cover such losses. these losses can decrease our anticipated revenues from a property and result in the loss of all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property. the insurance market for such exposures can be very volatile and we may be unable to purchase the limits and terms we desire on a commercially reasonable basis in the future. in addition, there are certain exposures where insurance is not purchased as we do not believe it is economically feasible to do so or where there is no viable insurance market. 19 table of contents environmental compliance costs and liabilities associated with our real estate related investments may materially impair the value of those investments. under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, as a current or previous owner of real estate, we may be required to investigate and clean up certain hazardous substances released at a property, and may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage and for investigation and cleanup costs incurred by the third parties in connection with the contamination. in addition, some environmental laws create a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and the costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. although we (i) currently carry environmental insurance on our properties in an amount and subject to deductibles that we believe are commercially reasonable, and (ii) generally require our operators and tenants to undertake to indemnify us for environmental liabilities they cause, such liabilities could exceed the amount of our insurance, the financial ability of the tenant or operator to indemnify us or the value of the contaminated property. the presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may materially adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. as the owner of a site, we may also be held liable under common law to third parties for damages and injuries resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the site. we may also experience environmental liabilities arising from conditions not known to us. the bankruptcy, insolvency or financial deterioration of one or more of our major operators or tenants may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we lease our properties directly to operators in most cases, and in certain other cases, we lease to third-party tenants who enter into long-term management agreements with operators to manage the properties. although our leases, financing arrangements and other agreements with our tenants and operators generally provide us the right under specified circumstances to terminate a lease, evict an operator or tenant, or demand immediate repayment of certain obligations to us, the bankruptcy laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization that may render certain of these remedies unenforceable, or at the least, delay our ability to pursue such remedies. for example, we cannot evict a tenant or operator solely because of its bankruptcy filing. a debtor has the right to assume, or to assume and assign to a third party, or reject its unexpired contracts in a bankruptcy proceeding. if a debtor were to reject its leases with us, our claim against the debtor for unpaid and future rents would be limited by the statutory cap set forth in the u.s. bankruptcy code, which may be substantially less than the remaining rent actually owed under the lease. in addition, the inability of our tenants or operators to make payments or comply with certain other lease obligations may affect our compliance with certain covenants contained in our debt securities, credit facilities and the mortgages on the properties leased or managed by such tenants and operators. in addition, under certain conditions, defaults under the underlying mortgages may result in cross-default under our other indebtedness. although we believe that we would be able to secure amendments under the applicable agreements in those circumstances, the bankruptcy of an applicable operator or tenant may potentially result in less favorable borrowing terms than currently available, delays in the availability of funding or other material adverse consequences. in addition, many of our facilities are leased to health care providers who provide long-term custodial care to the elderly; evicting such operators for failure to pay rent while the facility is occupied may be a difficult and slow process, and may not be successful. we may be required to impair the carrying values of the straight-line rents receivable or lease intangibles or impair the related carrying value of leased properties. many of our operating leases also contain non-contingent rent escalators for which we recognize income on a straight-line basis over the lease term. this method results in rental income in the early years of a lease being higher than actual cash received, creating a straight-line rent receivable asset included in the caption "other assets, net" on our consolidated balance sheets. at some point during 20 table of contents the lease, depending on its terms, the cash rent payments eventually exceed the straight-line rent which results in the straight-line rent receivable asset decreasing to zero over the remainder of the lease term. we assess the collectability of the straight-line rent that is expected to be collected in a future period, and, depending on circumstances, we may provide a reserve against the previously recognized straight-line rent receivable asset for a portion, up to its full value, that we estimate may not be recoverable. in addition, upon acquisition of a leased property that we account for as an operating lease, we may record lease-related intangible assets. the balance of straight-line rent receivable at december 31, 2010, net of allowances was $207 million. we had approximately $316 million of lease-related intangible assets, net of amortization, and $148 million of lease-related intangible liabilities, net of amortization, associated with our operating leases at december 31, 2010. to the extent any of the operators or tenants for our properties, for the reasons discussed above, become unable to pay amounts due, we may be required to impair the carrying values of the straight-line rents receivable or lease intangibles or may impair the related carrying value of leased properties. the current u.s. housing market may adversely affect our operators' and tenants' ability to increase or maintain occupancy levels at, and rental income from, our senior housing facilities. our tenants and operators may have relatively flat or declining occupancy levels in the near-term due to falling home prices, declining incomes, stagnant home sales and other economic factors. seniors may choose to postpone their plans to move into senior housing facilities rather than sell their homes at a loss, or for a profit below their expectations. moreover, tightening lending standards have made it more difficult for potential buyers to obtain mortgage financing, all of which have contributed to the declining home sales. in addition, the senior housing segment may continue to experience a decline in occupancy associated with private pay residents choosing to move out of the facilities to be cared for at home by relatives due to the weak economy. a material decline in our tenants' and operators' occupancy levels and revenues may make it more difficult for them to meet their financial obligations to us, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. operators and tenants that fail to comply with the requirements of governmental reimbursement programs such as medicare or medicaid, may cease to operate or be unable to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us. certain of our operators and tenants are affected by an extremely complex set of federal, state and local laws and regulations that are subject to frequent and substantial changes (sometimes applied retroactively) resulting from legislation, adoption of rules and regulations, and administrative and judicial interpretations of existing law. see "item 1 business government regulation, licensing and enforcement" above. for example, to the extent that any of our operators or tenants receive a significant portion of their revenues from governmental payors, primarily medicare and medicaid, such revenues may be subject to: statutory and regulatory changes; retroactive rate adjustments; recovery of program overpayments or set-offs; administrative rulings; policy interpretations; payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries or carriers; government funding restrictions (at a program level or with respect to specific facilities); and interruption or delays in payments due to any ongoing governmental investigations and audits at such property. 21 table of contents in recent years, governmental payors have frozen or reduced payments to healthcare providers due to budgetary pressures. healthcare reimbursement will likely continue to be of significant importance to federal and state authorities. we cannot make any assessment as to the ultimate timing or the effect that any future legislative reforms may have on our operators' and tenants' costs of doing business and on the amount of reimbursement by government and other third-party payors. the failure of any of our operators or tenants to comply with these laws, requirements and regulations could materially adversely affect their ability to meet their financial and contractual obligations to us. operators and tenants that fail to comply with federal, state and local licensure, certification and inspection laws and regulations may cease to operate or be unable to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us. certain of our operators and tenants are subject to extensive federal, state and local licensure, certification and inspection laws and regulations. our operators' or tenants' failure to comply with any of these laws could result in loss of accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension or decertification from federal and state healthcare programs, loss of license or closure of the facility. for example, certain of our properties may require a license and/or certificate of need to operate. failure of any operator or tenant to obtain a license or certificate of need, or loss of a required license or certificate of need, would prevent a facility from operating in the manner intended by such operator or tenant. additionally, failure of our operators and tenants to generally comply with applicable laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on facilities owned by or mortgaged to us, and therefore may materially adversely impact us. see "item 1 business government regulation, licensing and enforcement healthcare licensure and certificate of need" above. the impact of the comprehensive healthcare regulation enacted in 2010 on us and operators and tenants cannot accurately be predicted. legislative proposals are introduced or proposed in congress and in some state legislatures each year that would affect major changes in the healthcare system, either nationally or at the state level. while congress passed comprehensive legislation last year that provides for significant changes to the u.s. healthcare system over the next ten years, congress is currently considering making changes to that new legislation. in addition, the comprehensive health care legislation passed by congress in 2010 provides for extensive future rulemaking by regulatory authorities. we cannot accurately predict whether any pending legislative proposals will be adopted or, if adopted, what effect, if any, these proposals would have on our operators and tenants and, thus, our business. similarly, while we can anticipate that some of the rulemaking that will be promulgated by regulatory authorities will affect our operators and tenants and the manner in which they are reimbursed by the federal health care programs, we cannot accurately predict today the impact of those regulations on our operators and tenants and thus on our business. increased competition, as well as an inability to grow revenues as originally forecast, have resulted in lower net revenues for some of our operators and tenants and may affect their ability to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us. the healthcare industry is highly competitive and can become more competitive in the future. the occupancy levels at, and rental income from, our facilities is dependent on our ability and the ability of our operators and tenants to maintain and increase such levels and income, and to compete with entities that have substantial capital resources. these entities compete with other operators and tenants on a number of different levels, including: the quality of care provided, reputation, the physical appearance of a facility, price, the range of services offered, family preference, alternatives for healthcare delivery, the supply of competing properties, physicians, staff, referral sources, location, and the size and demographics of the population in the surrounding area. private, federal and state 22 table of contents payment programs and the effect of laws and regulations may also have a significant influence on the profitability of the properties and their tenants. our operators and tenants also compete with numerous other companies providing similar healthcare services or alternatives such as home health agencies, life care at home, community-based service programs, retirement communities and convalescent centers. such competition, which has intensified due to overbuilding in some segments in which we invest, has caused the occupancy rate of newly constructed buildings to slow and the monthly rate that many newly built and previously existing facilities were able to obtain for their services to decrease. we cannot be certain that the operators and tenants of all of our facilities will be able to achieve occupancy and rate levels that will enable them to meet all of their obligations to us. further, many competing companies may have resources and attributes that are superior to those of our operators and tenants. thus, our operators and tenants may encounter increased competition in the future that could limit their ability to maintain or attract residents or expand their businesses which could materially adversely affect their ability to meet their financial and other contractual obligation to us, potentially decreasing our revenues and increasing our collection and dispute costs. our operators and tenants may not procure the necessary insurance to adequately insure against losses. our leases generally require our tenants and operators to secure and maintain comprehensive liability and property insurance that covers us, as well as the tenants and operators. some types of losses may not be adequately insured by our tenants and operators. should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could incur liability or lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenues from the property. in such an event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. we continually review the insurance maintained by our tenants and operators. however, we cannot assure you that material uninsured losses, or losses in excess of insurance proceeds, will not occur in the future. our operators and tenants are faced with litigation and may experience rising liability and insurance costs. in some states, advocacy groups have been created to monitor the quality of care at healthcare facilities and these groups have brought litigation against the operators and tenants of such facilities. also, in several instances, private litigation by patients has succeeded in winning large damage awards for alleged abuses. the effect of this litigation and other potential litigation may materially increase the costs incurred by our operators and tenants for monitoring and reporting quality of care compliance. in addition, their cost of liability and medical malpractice insurance can be significant and may increase so long as the present healthcare litigation environment continues. cost increases could cause our operators to be unable to make their lease or mortgage payments or fail to purchase the appropriate liability and malpractice insurance, potentially decreasing our revenues and increasing our collection and litigation costs. in addition, as a result of our ownership of healthcare facilities, we may be named as a defendant in lawsuits allegedly arising from the actions of our operators or tenants, which may require unanticipated expenditures on our part. our tenants in the life science industry face high levels of regulation, expense and uncertainty. life science tenants, particularly those involved in developing and marketing pharmaceutical products, are subject to certain unique risks, as follows: some of our tenants require significant outlays of funds for the research, development and clinical testing of their products and technologies. if private investors, the government or other sources of funding are unavailable to support such activities, a tenant's business may be adversely affected or fail; 23 table of contents the research, development, clinical testing, manufacture and marketing of some of our tenants' products require federal, state and foreign regulatory approvals which may be costly or difficult to obtain; even after a life science tenant gains regulatory approval and market acceptance, the product may still present significant regulatory and liability risks, including, among others, the possible later discovery of safety concerns, competition from new products, and ultimately the expiration of patent protection for the product; our tenants with marketable products may be adversely affected by healthcare reform and the reimbursement policies of government or private healthcare payors; and our tenants may be unable to adequately protect their intellectual property under patent, copyright or trade secret laws. we cannot assure you that our life science tenants will be successful in their businesses. if our tenants' businesses are adversely affected, they may have difficulty making payments to us, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. tax and reit-related risks loss of our tax status as a reit would substantially reduce our available funds and would have material adverse consequences to us and the value of our common stock. qualification as a reit involves the application of numerous highly technical and complex provisions of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the "code"), for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations, as well as the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. we intend to continue to operate in a manner that enables us to qualify as a reit. however, our qualification and taxation as a reit depend upon our ability to meet, through actual annual operating results, asset diversification, distribution levels and diversity of stock ownership, the various qualification tests imposed under the code. for example, to qualify as a reit, at least 95% of our gross income in any year must be derived from qualifying sources, and we must make distributions to our stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our reit taxable income, excluding net capital gains. in addition, new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could change the tax laws or interpretations of the tax laws regarding qualification as a reit, or the federal income tax consequences of that qualification, in a manner that is materially adverse to our stockholders. accordingly, there is no assurance that we have operated or will continue to operate in a manner so as to qualify or remain qualified as a reit. if we lose our reit status, we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available to make payments of principal and interest on the debt securities we issue and to make distributions to stockholders. if we fail to qualify as a reit: we will not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income; we will be subject to corporate-level income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates; we could be subject to increased local income taxes; and unless we are entitled to relief under relevant statutory provisions, we will be disqualified from taxation as a reit for the four taxable years following the year during which we fail to qualify as a reit. 24 table of contents as a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a reit also could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and could materially adversely affect the value of our common stock. certain property transfers may generate prohibited transaction income, resulting in a penalty tax on gain attributable to the transaction. from time to time, we may transfer or otherwise dispose of some of our properties. under the code, any gain resulting from transfers of properties that we hold as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business would be treated as income from a prohibited transaction subject to a 100% penalty tax. since we acquire properties for investment purposes, we do not believe that our occasional transfers of property are properly treated as prohibited transactions. however, the determination that a transfer constitutes a prohibited transaction is based on the facts and circumstances surrounding each transfer. the internal revenue service ("irs") may contend that certain transfers of properties by us are prohibited transactions. while we believe that the irs would not prevail in any such dispute, if the irs were to argue successfully that a transfer of property constituted a prohibited transaction, then we would be required to pay a 100% penalty tax on any gain from the prohibited transaction. in addition, income from a prohibited transaction might materially adversely affect our ability to satisfy the income tests for qualification as a reit for federal income tax purposes. we could in the future choose to pay dividends in our own stock, in which case you may be required to pay tax in excess of the cash you receive. under certain circumstances, a stock dividend will be a taxable dividend if each stockholder can elect to receive the distribution in cash, even if the aggregate cash amount paid to all stockholders is limited. accordingly, if we decide to pay a stock dividend in such a manner, your taxable dividend will include the amount of stock and your tax liability with respect to such dividend may be significantly greater than the amount of cash you receive. we could have potential deferred and contingent tax liabilities from corporate acquisitions that could limit, delay or impede future sales of our properties. if, during the ten-year period beginning on the date we acquire certain companies, we recognize gain on the disposition of any property acquired, then, to the extent of the excess of (i) the fair market value of such property as of the acquisition date over (ii) our adjusted income tax basis in such property as of that date, we will be required to pay a corporate-level federal income tax on this gain at the highest regular corporate rate. there can be no assurance that these triggering dispositions will not occur, and these requirements could limit, delay or impede future sales of our properties. in addition, the irs may assert liabilities against us for corporate income taxes for taxable years prior to the time that we acquire certain companies, in which case we will owe these taxes plus interest and penalties, if any. there are uncertainties relating to the calculation of non-reit tax earnings and profits ("e&amp;p") in certain acquisitions, which may require us to distribute e&amp;p. in order to remain qualified as a reit, we are required to distribute to our stockholders all of the accumulated non-reit e&amp;p of certain companies that we acquire, prior to the close of the first taxable year in which the acquisition occurs. failure to make such e&amp;p distributions would result in our disqualification as a reit. the determination of the amount to be distributed in such e&amp;p distributions is a complex factual and legal determination. we may have less than complete information at the time we undertake our analysis, or we may interpret the applicable law differently from the irs. 25 table of contents we currently believe that we have satisfied the requirements relating to such e&amp;p distributions. there are, however, substantial uncertainties relating to the determination of e&amp;p, including the possibility that the irs could successfully assert that the taxable income of the companies acquired should be increased, which would increase our non-reit e&amp;p. moreover, an audit of the acquired company following our acquisition could result in an increase in accumulated non-reit e&amp;p, which could require us to pay an additional taxable distribution to our then-existing stockholders, if we qualify under rules for curing this type of default, or could result in our disqualification as a reit. thus, we might fail to satisfy the requirement that we distribute all of our non-reit e&amp;p by the close of the first taxable year in which the acquisition occurs. moreover, although there are procedures available to cure a failure to distribute all of our e&amp;p, we cannot now determine whether we will be able to take advantage of these procedures or the economic impact on us of doing so. risks related to our legal organizational structure our charter contains ownership limits with respect to our common stock and other classes of capital stock. our charter contains restrictions on the ownership and transfer of our common stock and preferred stock that are intended to assist us in preserving our qualification as a reit. under our charter, subject to certain exceptions, no person or entity may own, actually or constructively, more than 9.8% (by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the outstanding shares of our common stock or any class or series of our preferred stock. additionally, our charter has a 9.9% ownership limitation on the direct or indirect ownership of our voting shares, which may include common stock or other classes of capital stock. our board of directors, in its sole discretion, may exempt a proposed transferee from either ownership limit. the ownership limits may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. we are subject to certain provisions of maryland law and our charter relating to business combinations. the maryland business combination act provides that unless exempted, a maryland corporation may not engage in business combinations, including a merger, consolidation, share exchange or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities with an "interested stockholder" or an affiliate of an interested stockholder for five years after the most recent date no which the interested stockholder became an interested stockholder, and thereafter unless specified criteria are met. an interested stockholder is generally a person owning or controlling, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting power of the outstanding voting stock of a maryland corporation. unless our board of directors takes action to exempt us, generally or with respect to certain transactions, from this statute in the future, the maryland business combination act will be applicable to business combinations between us and other persons. in addition to the restrictions on business combinations contained in the maryland business combination act, our charter also contains restrictions on business combinations. our charter requires that, except in certain circumstances, "business combinations", including a merger or consolidation, and certain asset transfers and issuances of securities, with a "related person", including a beneficial owner of 10% or more of our outstanding voting stock, be approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 90% of our outstanding voting stock. the restrictions on business combinations provided under maryland law and contained in our charter may delay, defer or prevent a change of control or other transaction even if such transaction involves a premium price for our common stock or our stockholders believe that such transaction is otherwise in their best interests. 26 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 58 investment management fee income. investment management fee income decreased $0.6 million to $4.7 million for the year ended december 31, 2010. depreciation and amortization expense. depreciation and amortization expenses decreased $4.8 million to $312.0 million for the year ended december 31, 2010. the decrease in depreciation and amortization expense is primarily the result of lower depreciation from assets that were fully depreciated in 2009 and 2010, partially offset by additional amortization expense from leasing costs and tenant and capital improvements expenditures that were incurred in 2009 and 2010, and increases due to our 2010 real estate acquisitions. interest expense. for the year ended december 31, 2010, interest expense decreased $10.2 million to $288.7 million. the decrease was primarily due to the decrease of: (i) $5.8 million from the net impact of the repayment of mortgage debt related to contractual maturities, partially offset by secured debt financing obtained in connection with our purchase of a participation in the first mortgage debt of hcr manorcare, (ii) $4.6 million resulting from the repayment of our bridge loan in may 2009 and term loan in march 2010, (iii) $2.9 million resulting from the repayment of $206 million of senior unsecured notes in 2010, and (iv) $1.7 million resulting from the benefit of an interest-rate swap (pay float and receive fixed) that was placed on $250 million of our unsecured senior notes in june 2009. the decreases in interest expense were partially offset by a decrease of $4.3 million of capitalized interest related to assets under development in our life science segment that were placed in service during 2010. 45 table of contents our exposure to expense fluctuations related to our variable rate indebtedness is mitigated by our variable rate investments. for a more detailed discussion of our interest rate risk, see "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" in item 7a. the table below sets forth information with respect to our debt, excluding premiums and discounts (dollars in thousands): as of december 31, 2010 2009 balance: fixed rate $ 4,352,214 $ 4,695,082 variable rate 306,290 972,427 total $ 4,658,504 $ 5,667,509 percent of total debt: fixed rate 93 % 83 % variable rate 7 17 total 100 % 100 % weighted average interest rate at end of period: fixed rate 6.35 % 6.32 % variable rate 4.03 % 2.47 % total weighted average rate 6.19 % 5.65 % operating expenses. year ended december 31, change segments 2010 2009 $ % (dollars in thousands) senior housing $ 28,871 $ 3,935 $ 24,936 nm (1) life science 48,492 47,285 1,207 3 % medical office 127,883 130,476 (2,593 ) (2 ) post-acute/skilled nursing 200 135 65 48 hospital 4,830 3,873 957 25 total $ 210,276 $ 185,704 $ 24,572 13 % (1) percentage change not meaningful. operating expenses are generally related to mob and life science properties where we incur the expenses and recover all or a portion of those expenses from the tenants. the presentation of expenses as operating or general and administrative is based on the underlying nature of the expense. periodically, we review the classification of expenses between categories and make revisions based on changes in the underlying nature of the expenses. the increase in operating expenses during the year ended december 31, 2010 was primarily the result of including facility-level expenses for 27 properties as a result of the consolidation of four vies from august 31, 2010 to november 1, 2010 (see notes 12 and 21 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding these vies). general and administrative expenses. general and administrative expenses increased $4.6 million to $83.0 million for the year ended december 31, 2010. the increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to increased costs related to acquisitions pursued in 2010, partially offset by a decrease in legal fees associated with litigation matters and lower professional fees (see the 46 table of contents information set forth under the heading "legal proceedings" of note 12 to the consolidated financial statements). litigation provision. on september 4, 2009, a jury returned a verdict in favor of ventas, inc., in an action brought against us in the united states district court for the western district of kentucky for tortious interference with prospective business advantage in connection with ventas' 2007 acquisition of sunrise reit. the jury awarded ventas approximately $102 million in compensatory damages, which we recorded as a litigation provision expense during 2009. we are seeking to have the judgment against us reversed. the appeal and cross-appeal have now been fully briefed, and oral argument before the court of appeals is scheduled for march 10, 2011 (see the information set forth under the heading "legal proceedings" of note 12 to the consolidated financial statements). impairments (recoveries). the year ended december 31, 2010 includes $11.9 million related to the march 2010 reversal of portions of an allowance established by previous impairment charges of investments related to erickson (discussed below). erickson was the tenant at three of our senior housing continuing-care-retirement-communities dfls and the borrower of a senior construction loan in which we had a participation interest (see note 6 to the consolidated financial statements). the year ended december 31, 2009 includes impairments of $75.5 million as a result of (i) an aggregate $63.1 million provision related to dfl and loan losses (impairment charges) related to the bankruptcy of erickson who was the tenant at three of our senior housing ccrc dfls and the borrower of a senior construction loan in which we had a $10 million participation (see note 6 to the consolidated financial statements), (ii) $5.9 million of intangible assets on 12 of 15 senior housing communities that were written off due to the termination of the sunrise management agreements on 15 senior housing communities effective october 1, 2009, (iii) $4.3 million related to a senior secured term loan as a result of an expected restructuring of terms to the loan following the default of the borrower in our hospital segment (see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements), and (iv) $2.2 million related to intangible assets associated with the early termination of a lease in our life science segment. other income, net. for the year ended december 31, 2010, other income, net increased $8.1 million to $15.8 million. the increase was primarily a result of: (i) increases in gains on sales of marketable securities of $5.5 million and (ii) a $1.4 million of other-than-temporary impairments of goodwill recognized in 2009. for a more detailed description of our marketable securities investments, see note 10 of the consolidated financial statements. income taxes. income taxes decreased $1.5 million to $0.4 million for the year ended december 31, 2010. the decrease in income taxes is primarily due to the tax benefit resulting from the election of one of our former taxable reit subsidiaries ("trs") to become a reit in 2010. equity income from unconsolidated joint ventures. during the year ended december 31, 2010, equity income from unconsolidated joint ventures increased $1.3 million to $4.8 million. this increase is primarily due to: (i) the recognition of additional rental revenues during 2010 from a life science tenant in one of our unconsolidated joint ventures that was previously deferred and (ii) a change in the expected useful life of certain intangible assets of one of our unconsolidated joint ventures that resulted in lower equity income due to higher amounts of amortization expense during 2009. these increases were partially offset by hcp ventures ii's conclusion to cease recognizing non-cash rental income (i.e., straight-line rents) from horizon bay effective july 1, 2010, which resulted in lower earnings for, and our share of earnings from, hcp ventures ii during the year ended december 31, 2010. impairments of investments in unconsolidated joint ventures. during the year ended december 31, 2010, we recognized impairments of $71.7 million related to our 35% interest in hcp ventures ii, an unconsolidated joint venture that owns 25 senior housing properties leased by horizon bay as a result 47 table of contents of the recent and projected deterioration of the operating performance of the properties leased by horizon bay from hcp ventures ii. discontinued operations. income from discontinued operations for the year ended december 31, 2010 was $22.8 million, compared to $45 million for the comparable period in 2009. the decrease is primarily due to a decrease in gains on real estate dispositions of $17.4 million and a decline in operating income from discontinued operations of $4.9 million. during the year ended december 31, 2010, we sold 14 properties for $56 million, compared to 14 properties for $72 million for the year ended december 31, 2009. comparison of the year ended december 31, 2009 to the year ended december 31, 2008 rental and related revenues. year ended december 31, change segments 2009 2008 $ % (dollars in thousands) senior housing $ 288,163 $ 285,988 $ 2,175 1 % life science 214,134 208,415 5,719 3 medical office 260,238 259,164 1,074 post-acute/skilled nursing 36,585 34,567 2,018 6 hospital 79,372 79,233 139 total $ 878,492 $ 867,367 $ 11,125 1 % senior housing. senior housing rental and related revenues for the year ended december 31, 2009 includes $6.4 million resulting from an adjustment to the purchase price allocation of certain assets acquired in 2006. no similar adjustments were made in the year ended december 31, 2008. as a result of the transfer of an 11-property senior housing portfolio to emeritus on december 1, 2008, our rental revenues increased by $9.8 million primarily related to new leases with emeritus. these increases were partially offset by (i) a decrease of $7.4 million related to 2008 additional rents from property level expense credits related to our properties operated by sunrise and (ii) a $7.3 million decrease in the facility-level operating revenues for three senior housing properties that were previously under management agreements and re-leased on a triple-net basis during 2009. life science. the increase in life science rental and related revenues was primarily a result of (i) a net increase of $14.9 million from lease-up activities that were partially offset by vacancies, and (ii) a $6.7 million net increase from development assets placed in service during 2008 that were partially offset by assets placed in redevelopment. these increases were partially offset by a decrease of $14.7 million in lease termination fees. tenant recoveries. year ended december 31, change segments 2009 2008 $ % (dollars in thousands) life science $ 40,845 $ 33,932 $ 6,913 20 % medical office 46,623 46,837 (214 ) hospital 1,989 1,919 70 4 total $ 89,457 $ 82,688 $ 6,769 8 % 48 table of contents life science. life science tenant recoveries increased primarily as a result of an increase in occupancy levels at our life science facilities and the impact of development assets placed in service during 2008. income from direct financing leases. income from dfls decreased $6.7 million to $51.5 million for the year ended december 31, 2009. the decrease was primarily due to three dfls that during 2009 were deemed to be substantially impaired. see note 6 to the consolidated financial statements. interest income. for the year ended december 31, 2009, interest income decreased $6.7 million to $124.1 million. this decrease was primarily related to a decline in libor resulting in a decrease of interest earned on our mezzanine variable-rate loans, which was partially offset by additional interest income earned from the purchase of a participation in the first mortgage debt of hcr manorcare in august 2009. for a more detailed description of our mezzanine loan and participation in the first mortgage debt of hcr manorcare, see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. our exposure to income fluctuations related to our variable rate loans is partially mitigated by our variable rate indebtedness. for a more detailed discussion of our interest rate risk, see "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" in item 7a. depreciation and amortization expense. depreciation and amortization expenses increased $4.7 million to $316.7 million for the year ended december 31, 2009. the increase in depreciation and amortization expense primarily relates to a $3.3 million increase due to the purchase in september 2008 of tenet's noncontrolling interest in health care property partners, a joint venture between hcp and an affiliate of tenet, and an increase of $2.0 million resulting from an adjustment to the purchase price allocation related to certain assets acquired in 2006 (see note 9 to the consolidated financial statements). interest expense. for the year ended december 31, 2009, interest expense decreased $49.5 million to $298.9 million. the decrease was primarily due to (i) a decrease of $45.7 million from the decline in libor and the repayment of the outstanding balance under our bridge loan and revolving line of credit facility, and (ii) a decrease of $8.3 million resulting from the repayment of $300 million of senior unsecured floating rate notes in september 2008. these decreases in interest expense were partially offset by an increase of $5.2 million from the net impact of mortgage debt placed on senior housing assets in 2008 and the repayment of mortgage debt related to contractual maturities. our exposure to expense fluctuations related to our variable rate indebtedness is mitigated by our variable rate investments. for a more detailed discussion of our interest rate risk, see "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" in item 7a. 49 table of contents the table below sets forth information with respect to our debt, excluding premiums and discounts (dollars in thousands): as of december 31, 2009 2008 balance: fixed rate $ 4,695,082 $ 5,059,910 variable rate 972,427 892,431 total $ 5,667,509 $ 5,952,341 percent of total debt: fixed rate 83 % 85 % variable rate 17 15 total 100 % 100 % weighted average interest rate at end of period: fixed rate 6.32 % 6.34 % variable rate 2.47 % 2.57 % total weighted average rate 5.65 % 5.77 % operating expenses. year ended december 31, change segments 2009 2008 $ % (dollars in thousands) senior housing $ 3,935 $ 11,316 $ (7,381 ) (65 )% life science 47,285 43,565 3,720 9 medical office 130,476 134,800 (4,324 ) (3 ) post-acute/skilled nursing 135 135 100 hospital 3,873 3,264 609 19 total $ 185,704 $ 192,945 $ (7,241 ) (4 )% operating expenses are predominantly related to mob and life science properties where we incur the expenses and recover all or a portion of those expenses under the respective leases. accordingly, the number of properties in our mob and life science portfolios directly impact operating expenses. the presentation of expenses as general and administrative or operating is based on the underlying nature of the expense. periodically, we review the classification of expenses between categories and make revisions that we believe improve the quality of our presentation. senior housing. senior housing operating expenses decreased primarily as a result of a decrease in facility-level operating expenses for three senior housing properties that were previously under management agreements and re-leased on a triple-net basis during 2009. life science. life science operating expenses increased primarily as a result of an increase in occupancy levels at our life science facilities and the impact of development assets placed in service during 2008. medical office. medical office operating expenses decreased primarily as a result of cost saving initiatives implemented in 2009 and the impact of properties which were taken out of service and placed into redevelopment during 2008 and 2009. 50 table of contents general and administrative expenses. general and administrative expenses increased $4.8 million to $78.5 million for the year ended december 31, 2009. the increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to an increase in legal fees associated with litigation matters partially offset by lower compensation related expenses. for the year ended december 31, 2009 and 2008, in relation to the ventas litigation matter, we incurred legal expenses of $13.2 million and $6.9 million, respectively (see the information set forth under the heading "legal proceedings" of note 12 to the consolidated financial statements). litigation provision. on september 4, 2009, a jury returned a verdict in favor of ventas in an action brought against us in the united states district court for the western district of kentucky for tortious interference with prospective business advantage in connection with ventas' 2007 acquisition of sunrise reit. the jury awarded ventas approximately $102 million in compensatory damages, which we recorded as a litigation provision expense during 2009 (see the information set forth under the heading "legal proceedings" of note 12 to the consolidated financial statements). impairments (recoveries). during the year ended december 31, 2009, we recognized impairments of $75.5 million as a result of (i) an aggregate $63.1 million provision related to dfl and loan losses (impairment charges) related to the bankruptcy of erickson who was the tenant at three of our senior housing ccrc dfls and the borrower of a senior construction loan in which we had a $10 million participation (see note 6 to the consolidated financial statements), and (ii) $5.9 million of intangible assets on 12 of 15 senior housing communities that were written off due to the termination of the sunrise management agreements on 15 senior housing communities effective october 1, 2009, (iii) $4.3 million related to a senior secured term loan as a result of an expected restructuring of terms to the loan following the default of the borrower in our hospital segment (see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements), and (iv) $2.2 million related to intangible assets associated with the early termination of a lease in our life science segment. during the year ended december 31, 2008, we recognized impairments of $27.5 million as follows: (i) $12.0 million related to intangible assets associated with the transfer of an 11-property senior housing portfolio, (ii) $3.7 million related to intangible assets associated with the early termination of three leases in the life science segment, (iii) $1.0 million related to intangible assets associated with the early termination of two leases in the hospital segment, (iv) $1.6 million related to two senior housing facilities as a result of a decrease in expected cash flows, and (v) $9.2 million, included in discontinued operations, related to the decrease in expected cash flows and anticipated dispositions of two senior housing properties and one hospital. other income, net. for the year ended december 31, 2009, other income, net decreased $17.9 million to $7.8 million. this decrease was primarily related to the $28.6 million of income related to the 2008 settlement of litigation with tenet and a $2.4 million gain on the early repayment of debt. the decrease was partially offset by increases in gains on marketable debt securities of $8.6 million and a reduction of $7.3 million of other-than-temporary impairments on marketable equity securities. for a more detailed description of our marketable securities investments, see note 10 of the consolidated financial statements. income taxes. for the year ended december 31, 2009, income taxes decreased $2.3 million to $1.9 million. this decrease is primarily due to: (i) lower interest earned, due to a decline in libor, for a portion of one of our mezzanine loans, (ii) the transfer of a loan investment out of one of our trs and (iii) increased depreciation expense, due to a correction of an immaterial error for one of our real estate investments held in a trs. discontinued operations. income from discontinued operations for the year ended december 31, 2009 was $45 million, compared to $246.5 million for the comparable period in 2008. the decrease is primarily due to a decrease in gains on real estate dispositions of $191.9 million and a decline in 51 table of contents operating income from discontinued operations of $18.7 million, partially offset by a reduction of impairment charges in discontinued operations of $9.1 million. during the year ended december 31, 2009, we sold 14 properties for $72 million, as compared to 51 properties for $643 million for the year ended december 31, 2008. noncontrolling interests' share in earnings. for the year ended december 31, 2009, noncontrolling interests' share in earnings decreased $8.0 million to $14.5 million. this decrease was primarily due to (i) a $4 million decrease related to the conversions of 3.3 million downreit units that converted into shares of our common stock during 2008 and 2009, and (ii) a $4 million decrease related to purchases of other noncontrolling interests during 2008 and 2009. liquidity and capital resources our principal liquidity needs are to: (i) fund recurring operating expenses, (ii) meet debt service requirements, including $292 million of senior unsecured notes and $58 million of mortgage debt principal payments and maturities in 2011, (iii) fund capital expenditures, including tenant improvements and leasing costs, (iv) fund acquisition and development activities, and (v) make dividend distributions. we believe these needs will be satisfied using cash flows generated by operations and from our various financing activities during the next twelve months. during the year ended december 31, 2010, distributions to shareholders and noncontrolling interest holders exceeded cash flows from operations by approximately $26 million. during 2010, we raised aggregate net proceeds of $2.6 billion from issuances of common stock and sales of marketable securities and real estate, which proceeds, among other things, were the sources of cash used to fund the excess of distributions to shareholders and noncontrolling interest holders above cash flows from operations during the year ended december 31, 2010. we intend to pay the $3.53 billion cash portion of the consideration for the hcr manorcare acquisition primarily with the proceeds from our $1.472 billion december 2010 common stock offering and $2.4 billion january 2011 senior unsecured note offering. access to capital markets impacts our cost of capital and ability to refinance maturing indebtedness, as well as our ability to fund future acquisitions and development through the issuance of additional securities or secured debt. credit ratings impact our ability to access capital and directly impact our cost of capital as well. for example, as noted below, our revolving line of credit facility accrues interest at a rate per annum equal to libor plus a margin that depends upon our debt ratings. we also pay a facility fee on the entire revolving commitment that depends upon our debt ratings. as of january 31, 2011, we had a credit rating of baa2 (stable) from moody's, bbb (stable) from s&amp;p and bbb (watch positive) from fitch on our senior unsecured debt securities, and baa3 (stable) from moody's, bb+ (stable) from s&amp;p and bb+ (watch positive) from fitch on our preferred equity securities. net cash provided by operating activities was $580 million and $516 million for the years ended december 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. the increase in operating cash flows is primarily the result of the following: (i) the additive impact of our investments in 2009 and 2010, (ii) assets placed in service in 2010 and (iii) rent escalations and resets in 2009 and 2010. our cash flows from operations are dependent upon the occupancy level of multi-tenant buildings, rental rates on leases, our tenants' performance on their lease obligations, the level of operating expenses and other factors. net cash used by investing activities was $431 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 and consisted of the net effects of funding: (i) $305 million for acquisition and development of real estate, (ii) $298 million for investments in loans receivables and dfls, and (iii) $98 million for leasing costs and tenant and capital improvements. these expenditures were partially offset by our proceeds of $179 million from the sales of marketable debt securities and $32 million from the repayment of loans receivable and dfls. 52 table of contents net cash provided by financing activities was $775 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 and consisted primarily of net proceeds of $2.4 billion from the issuances of common stock. the amount of cash provided by financing activities was partially offset by or used for the: (i) repayment of our mortgage and other secured debt of $636 million, (ii) payments of common and preferred dividends aggregating $591 million, (iii) repayment of $206 million of senior unsecured notes, and (iv) repayment of our term loan of $200 million. debt bank line of credit. our revolving line of credit facility with a syndicate of banks provides for an aggregate borrowing capacity of $1.5 billion and matures on august 1, 2011. this revolving line of credit facility accrues interest at a rate per annum equal to libor plus a margin that depends upon our debt ratings. we pay a facility fee on the entire revolving commitment that depends upon our debt ratings. based on our debt ratings at december 31, 2010, the margin on the revolving line of credit facility was 0.55% and the facility fee was 0.15%. at december 31, 2010, we had no amounts drawn under this revolving line of credit facility. at december 31, 2010, $113 million of aggregate letters of credit were outstanding against our revolving line of credit facility, including a $103 million letter of credit as a result of the ventas litigation. for further information regarding the ventas litigation see note 12 to the consolidated financial statements. our revolving line of credit facility contains certain financial restrictions and other customary requirements. among other things, these covenants, using terms defined in the agreement, (i) limit the ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to consolidated total asset value to 60%, (ii) limit the ratio of unsecured debt to consolidated unencumbered asset value to 65%, (iii) require a fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.75 times and (iv) require a formula-determined minimum consolidated tangible net worth of $6.9 billion at december 31, 2010. at december 31, 2010, we were in compliance with each of these restrictions and requirements of our revolving line of credit facility. our revolving line of credit facility also contains cross-default provisions to other indebtedness of ours, including in some instances, certain mortgages on our properties. certain mortgages contain default provisions relating to defaults under the leases or operating agreements on the applicable properties by our operators or tenants, including default provisions relating to the bankruptcy filings of such operator or tenant. although we believe that we would be able to secure amendments under the applicable agreements if a default as described above occurs, such a default may result in significantly less favorable borrowing terms than currently available, material delays in the availability of funding or other material adverse consequences. senior unsecured notes. at december 31, 2010, we had senior unsecured notes outstanding with an aggregate principal balance of $3.3 billion. interest rates on the notes ranged from 1.27% to 7.12% with a weighted average effective rate of 6.19% at december 31, 2010. discounts and premiums are amortized to interest expense over the term of the related notes. the senior unsecured notes contain certain covenants including limitations on debt, cross-acceleration provisions and other customary terms. at december 31, 2010, we believe we were in compliance with these covenants. on january 24, 2011, we issued $2.4 billion of senior unsecured notes as follows: (i) $400 million of 2.70% notes due 2014; (ii) $500 million of 3.75% notes due 2016; (iii) $1.2 billion of 5.375% notes due 2021; and (iv) $300 million of 6.75% notes due 2041. the notes have a weighted average maturity of 10.3 years and a weighted average yield of 4.83%. the net proceeds of the offering were $2.37 billion. if the hcr manorcare acquisition is not completed by june 13, 2011 (under certain conditions permitted under the purchase agreement this date may be extended to september 13, 2011), we are required to redeem all of these senior unsecured notes at 101% of the principal amount 20 business days subsequent to the earlier of such date or the date that the purchase agreement is terminated. 53 table of contents mortgage and other secured debt. at december 31, 2010, we had $1.2 billion in aggregate principal amount of mortgage debt secured by 138 healthcare facilities, which had a carrying amount of $2.0 billion. interest rates on the mortgage debt ranged from 1.96% to 8.30% with a weighted average effective interest rate of 6.14% at december 31, 2010. mortgage debt generally requires monthly principal and interest payments, is collateralized by certain properties and is generally non-recourse. mortgage debt typically restricts transfer of the encumbered properties, prohibits additional liens, restricts prepayment, requires payment of real estate taxes, requires maintenance of the properties in good condition, requires maintenance of insurance on the properties and includes requirements to obtain lender consent to enter into and terminate material leases. some of the mortgage debt is also cross-collateralized by multiple properties and may require tenants or operators to maintain compliance with the applicable leases or operating agreements of such properties. other debt. at december 31, 2010, we had $92.2 million of non-interest bearing life care bonds at two of our ccrcs and non-interest bearing occupancy fee deposits at another of our senior housing facility, all of which were payable to certain residents of the facilities (collectively, "life care bonds"). at december 31, 2010, $35.9 million of the life care bonds were refundable to the residents upon the resident moving out or to their estate upon death, and $56.3 million of the life care bonds were refundable after the unit is successfully remarketed to a new resident. debt maturities the following table summarizes our stated debt maturities and scheduled principal repayments, excluding debt premiums and discounts, at december 31, 2010 (in thousands): year senior unsecured notes mortgage and other secured debt total (1) 2011 $ 292,265 $ 57,571 $ 349,836 2012 250,000 64,103 314,103 2013 550,000 250,741 800,741 2014 87,000 177,809 264,809 2015 400,000 355,080 755,080 thereafter 1,750,000 331,748 2,081,748 3,329,265 1,237,052 4,566,317 (discounts) and premiums, net (10,886 ) (1,273 ) (12,159 ) $ 3,318,379 $ 1,235,779 $ 4,554,158 (1) excludes $92 million of other debt that represents non-interest bearing life care bonds and occupancy fee deposits at three of our senior housing facilities, which have no scheduled maturities. derivative financial instruments. we use derivative instruments to mitigate the effects of interest rate fluctuations on specific forecasted transactions as well as recognized obligations or assets. we do not use derivative instruments for speculative or trading purposes. 54 table of contents the following table summarizes our outstanding interest rate swap contracts as of december 31, 2010 (dollars in thousands): date entered maturity date hedge designation fixed rate floating rate index notional amount fair value july 2005 (1) july 2020 cash flow 3.82 % bma swap index $ 45,600 $ (4,184 ) november 2008 october 2016 cash flow 5.95 % 1 month libor+1.50% 28,200 (3,191 ) june 2009 september 2011 fair value 5.95 % 1 month libor+4.21% 250,000 2,291 july 2009 july 2013 cash flow 6.13 % 1 month libor+3.65% 14,200 (545 ) august 2009 february 2011 cash flow 0.87 % 1 month libor 250,000 165 august 2009 august 2011 cash flow 1.24 % 1 month libor 250,000 1,409 (1) represents three interest-rate swap contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $45.6 million. for a more detailed description of our derivative financial instruments, see note 24 of the consolidated financial statements and "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" in item 7a. equity at december 31, 2010, we had 4.0 million shares of 7.25% series e cumulative redeemable preferred stock, 7.8 million shares of 7.10% series f cumulative redeemable preferred stock and 370.9 million shares of common stock outstanding. at december 31, 2010, equity totaled $8.1 billion and our equity securities had a market value of $14.2 billion. as of december 31, 2010, there were a total of 4.2 million downreit units outstanding in five limited liability companies in which we are the managing member. the downreit units are exchangeable for an amount of cash approximating the then-current market value of shares of our common stock or, at our option, shares of our common stock (subject to certain adjustments, such as stock splits and reclassifications). shelf registration we have a prospectus on file with the sec as part of a registration statement on form s-3, using a shelf registration process that expires in september 2012. under this "shelf" process, we may sell from time to time any combination of the registered securities in one or more offerings. the securities described in the prospectus include common stock, preferred stock and debt securities. each time we sell securities under the shelf registration, we will provide a prospectus supplement that will contain specific information about the terms of the securities being offered and of the offering. we may offer and sell the securities pursuant to this prospectus from time to time in one or more of the following ways: through underwriters or dealers, through agents, directly to purchasers or through a combination of any of these methods of sales. proceeds from the sale of these securities may be used for general corporate purposes, which may include repayment of indebtedness, working capital and potential acquisitions. non-gaap financial measure funds from operations ("ffo") we believe ffo applicable to common shares, diluted ffo applicable to common shares, ffo, before the impact of impairments, recoveries and litigation provision, and basic and diluted ffo per common share are important supplemental measures of operating performance for a real estate investment trust. because the historical cost accounting convention used for real estate assets utilizes straight-line depreciation (except on land), such accounting presentation implies that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. since real estate values instead have historically risen and fallen with market conditions, presentations of operating results for a real estate investment trust 55 table of contents that uses historical cost accounting for depreciation could be less informative. the term ffo was designed by the real estate investment trust industry to address this issue. ffo is defined as net income applicable to common shares (computed in accordance with gaap), excluding gains or losses from real estate dispositions, plus real estate depreciation and amortization, with adjustments for joint ventures. adjustments for joint ventures are calculated to reflect ffo on the same basis. ffo does not represent cash generated from operating activities in accordance with gaap, is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund cash needs and should not be considered an alternative to net income. our computation of ffo may not be comparable to ffo reported by other real estate investment trusts that do not define the term in accordance with the current national association of real estate investment trusts' ("nareit") definition or that have a different interpretation of the current nareit definition from us. in addition, we present ffo, before the impact of impairments, recoveries, merger-related items and litigation provision ("ffo as adjusted"). management believes ffo as adjusted is a useful alternative measurement. this measure is a modification of the nareit definition of ffo and should not be used as an alternative to net income. details of certain items that affect comparability are discussed in the financials results summary of our financial results for the year months ended december 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. the following is a reconciliation from net income applicable to common shares, the most direct comparable financial measure calculated and presented with gaap, to ffo (dollars and shares in thousands): year ended december 31, 2010 2009 2008 net income applicable to common shares $ 307,498 $ 109,069 $ 425,368 depreciation and amortization of real estate, in-place lease and other intangibles: continuing operations 311,952 316,722 312,009 discontinued operations 1,495 3,403 9,227 gain on sales of real estate (19,925 ) (37,321 ) (229,189 ) equity income from unconsolidated joint ventures (4,770 ) (3,511 ) (3,326 ) ffo from unconsolidated joint ventures 25,288 26,023 24,125 noncontrolling interests' and participating securities' share in earnings 15,767 15,952 24,485 noncontrolling interests' and participating securities' share in ffo (17,904 ) (17,873 ) (26,910 ) ffo applicable to common shares $ 619,401 $ 412,464 $ 535,789 distributions on dilutive convertible units 6,676 12,974 diluted ffo applicable to common shares $ 626,077 $ 412,464 $ 548,763 diluted ffo per common share $ 2.02 $ 1.50 $ 2.24 weighted average shares used to calculate diluted ffo per common share 310,465 274,631 244,650 56 table of contents year ended december 31, 2010 2009 2008 impact of adjustments to ffo: impairments, net of recoveries $ 59,793 $ 75,514 $ 27,851 merger-related items (1) 4,339 3,897 litigation provision 101,973 $ 64,132 $ 177,487 $ 31,748 ffo as adjusted applicable to common shares $ 683,533 $ 589,951 $ 567,537 distributions on dilutive convertible units 11,632 6,088 12,974 diluted ffo as adjusted $ 695,165 $ 596,039 $ 580,511 diluted ffo as adjusted per common share $ 2.23 $ 2.14 $ 2.37 weighted average shares used to calculate diluted ffo as adjusted per common share (2) 311,285 278,134 244,650 (1) merger-related items for 2010 primarily include professional fees associated with our pending hcr manorcare acquisition; merger-related items for 2008 primarily include the amortization of fees associated with our acquisition financing for seusa. (2) our weighted average shares used to calculate diluted ffo as adjusted eliminate the impact of our december 2010 common stock offering, which issuance increased its weighted average outstanding shares by 1.5 million for the year ended december 31, 2010. proceeds from this offering will be used to fund a portion of the cash consideration of our pending hcr manorcare acquisition. off-balance sheet arrangements we own interests in certain unconsolidated joint ventures as described under note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. except in limited circumstances, our risk of loss is limited to our investment in the joint venture and any outstanding loans receivable. in addition, we have certain properties which serve as collateral for debt that is owed by a previous owner of certain of our facilities, as described under note 12 to the consolidated financial statements included. our risk of loss for these properties is limited to the outstanding debt balance plus penalties, if any. we have no other material off-balance sheet arrangements that we expect would materially affect our liquidity and capital resources except those described below under "contractual obligations." contractual obligations the following table summarizes our material contractual payment obligations and commitments at december 31, 2010 (in thousands): total (1) less than one year 2012-2013 2014-2015 more than five years senior unsecured notes $ 3,329,265 $ 292,265 $ 800,000 $ 487,000 $ 1,750,000 mortgage and other secured debt 1,237,052 57,571 314,844 532,889 331,748 development commitments (2) 4,666 4,666 ground and other operating leases 198,189 5,076 10,457 9,032 173,624 interest (3) 1,292,807 274,343 475,592 332,387 210,485 total $ 6,061,979 $ 633,921 $ 1,600,893 $ 1,361,308 $ 2,465,857 (1) excludes $92 million of other debt that represents non-interest bearing life care bonds and occupancy fee deposits at three of our senior housing facilities, which have no scheduled maturities. (2) represents construction and other commitments for developments in progress. (3) interest on variable-rate debt is calculated using rates in effect at december 31, 2010. 57 table of contents inflation our leases often provide for either fixed increases in base rents or indexed escalators, based on the consumer price index or other measures, and/or additional rent based on increases in the tenants' operating revenues. substantially all of our mob leases require the tenant to pay a share of property operating costs such as real estate taxes, insurance and utilities. substantially all of our senior housing, life science, post-acute/skilled nursing and hospital leases require the operator or tenant to pay all of the property operating costs or reimburse us for all such costs. we believe that inflationary increases in expenses will be offset, in part, by the operator or tenant expense reimbursements and contractual rent increases described above. recent accounting pronouncements see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for the impact of new accounting standards. there were no accounting pronouncements that were issued, but not yet adopted by us, that we believe will materially impact our consolidated financial statements. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk at december 31, 2010, we were exposed to market risks related to fluctuations in interest rates on approximately $1.3 billion of variable-rate loan investments (excludes $500 million of variable-rate loan investments that have been hedged through interest-rate swap contracts) and $83 million of other investments where the payments fluctuate with changes in libor. see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our loan investments. our exposure to income fluctuations related to our variable-rate investments is partially offset by (i) $31 million of variable-rate mortgage notes debt payable (excludes $88 million of variable-rate mortgage notes that have been hedged through interest-rate swap contracts), (ii) $25 million of variable-rate senior unsecured notes and (iii) $250 million of additional variable interest-rate exposure achieved through an interest-rate swap contract (pay float and receive fixed). interest rate fluctuations will generally not affect our future earnings or cash flows on our fixed rate debt and loans receivable unless such instruments mature or are otherwise terminated. however, interest rate changes will affect the fair value of our fixed rate instruments. conversely, changes in interest rates on variable rate debt and investments would change our future earnings and cash flows, but not significantly affect the fair value of those instruments. assuming a one percentage point increase in the interest rate related to the variable-rate investments and variable-rate debt, and assuming no change in the outstanding balance as of december 31, 2010, net interest income would improve by approximately $10.5 million or $0.03 per common share on a diluted basis. assuming a 50 basis point decrease in interest rates under the above circumstances and taking into consideration that the index underlying many of our arrangements is currently below 50 basis points and is not expected to go below zero, net interest income would decline by $5.2 million, or less than $0.02 per common share on a diluted basis. we use derivative financial instruments in the normal course of business to mitigate interest rate risk. we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. derivatives are recorded on the consolidated balance sheet at their fair value. see note 24 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. to illustrate the effect of movements in the interest rate markets, we performed a market sensitivity analysis on our hedging instruments. we applied various basis point spreads, to the underlying interest rate curves of the derivative portfolio in order to determine the instruments' change in fair value. assuming a one percentage point change in the underlying interest rate curve, the estimated change in fair value of each of the underlying derivative instruments would not exceed $4.0 million. see note 24 to the consolidated financial statements for additional analysis details. 58 table of contents the principal amount and the average interest rates for our loans receivable and debt categorized by maturity dates is presented in the table below. the fair value for our senior unsecured notes payable is based on prevailing market prices. the fair value estimates for loans receivable and mortgage debt payable are based on discounting future cash flows utilizing current rates for loans and debt of the same type and remaining maturity. maturity 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 thereafter total fair value (dollars in thousands) assets: loans receivable $ 89,291 $ $ 1,726,923 $ 329,190 $ 23,459 $ $ 2,168,863 $ 2,026,389 weighted average interest rate 14.00 % % 3.15 % 6.50 % 8.17 % % 4.16 % liabilities (1) : variable-rate debt: senior unsecured notes payable $ $ $ $ 25,000 $ $ $ 25,000 $ 23,944 weighted average interest rate % % % 1.27 % % % 1.27 % mortgage debt payable $ 6,672 $ 8,308 $ 6,160 $ $ 10,150 $ $ 31,290 $ 28,074 weighted average interest rate 2.18 % 1.96 % 2.06 % % 1.16 % % 1.77 % fixed-rate debt: senior unsecured notes payable (2) $ 292,265 $ 250,000 $ 550,000 $ 62,000 $ 400,000 $ 1,750,000 $ 3,304,265 $ 3,512,469 weighted average interest rate 4.85 % 6.67 % 5.82 % 6.35 % 6.64 % 6.40 % 6.22 % mortgage debt payable $ 26,134 $ 31,757 $ 231,540 $ 193,142 $ 365,747 $ 357,442 $ 1,205,762 $ 1,230,111 weighted average interest rate 6.98 % 5.90 % 6.10 % 5.74 % 6.38 % 6.48 % 6.24 % (1) excludes $92 million of other debt that represents non-interest bearing life care bonds and occupancy fee deposits at three of our senior housing facilities, which have no scheduled maturities. (2) effective interest rate includes an interest rate swap contract (pay float and receive fixed) designated in a qualifying hedging relationship with a notional amount of $250 million that terminates in september 2011. the interest rate swap contact had a fixed rate of 5.95% and a floating rate of libor plus 4.21% at december 31, 2010.risk factors 13 healthcare segments senior housing. at december 31, 2011, we had interests in 314 senior housing facilities, 21 of which are in a ridea structure. excluding ridea properties, all of our senior housing facilities are leased to single tenants under triple-net lease structures. senior housing facilities include assisted living facilities ("alfs"), independent living facilities ("ilfs") and continuing care retirement communities ("ccrcs"), which cater to different segments of the elderly population based upon their needs. services provided by our operators or tenants in these facilities are primarily paid for by the residents directly or through private insurance and are less reliant on government reimbursement programs such as medicaid and medicare. our senior housing property types are further described below: assisted living facilities. alfs are licensed care facilities that provide personal care services, support and housing for those who need help with activities of daily living ("adl") yet require limited medical care. the programs and services may include transportation, social activities, exercise and fitness programs, beauty or barber shop access, hobby and craft activities, community excursions, meals in a dining room setting and other activities sought by residents. these facilities are often in apartment-like buildings with private residences ranging from single rooms to large apartments. certain alfs may offer higher levels of personal assistance for residents with alzheimer's disease or other forms of dementia. levels of personal assistance are based in part on local regulations. at december 31, 2011, we had interests in 258 alfs. independent living facilities. ilfs are designed to meet the needs of seniors who choose to live in an environment surrounded by their peers with services such as housekeeping, meals and activities. these residents generally do not need assistance with adl, such as bathing, eating and dressing. however, residents have the option to contract for these services. at december 31, 2011, we had interests in 44 ilfs. 5 table of contents continuing care retirement communities. ccrcs provide housing and health-related services under long-term contracts. this alternative is appealing to residents as it eliminates the need for relocating when health and medical needs change, thus allowing residents to "age in place." some ccrcs require a substantial entry or buy-in fee and most also charge monthly maintenance fees in exchange for a living unit, meals and some health services. ccrcs typically require the individual to be in relatively good health and independent upon entry. at december 31, 2011, we had interests in 12 ccrcs. our senior housing segment accounted for approximately 31%, 30% and 30% of total revenues for the years ended december 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. the following table provides information about our senior housing operator concentration for the year ended december 31, 2011: operators percentage of segment revenues percentage of total revenues brookdale senior living inc. ("brookdale") (1) 24 7 emeritus corporation ("emeritus") 23 7 sunrise senior living, inc. ("sunrise") (2) 18 6 hcr manorcare 10 27 (3) (1) brookdale percentages exclude $47.1 million of senior housing, related to 21 senior housing facilities that brookdale operates on our behalf under a ridea structure. assuming that these revenues were attributable to brookdale, the percentage of segment and total revenues for brookdale would be 33% and 10%, respectively. (2) certain of our properties are leased to tenants who have entered into management contracts with sunrise to operate the respective property on their behalf. to determine our concentration of revenues generated from properties operated by sunrise, we aggregate revenue from these tenants with revenue generated from the two properties that are leased directly to sunrise. (3) percentage of total revenues from hcr manorcare includes revenues earned from both our senior housing and post-acute/skilled nursing segments. post-acute/skilled nursing. at december 31, 2011, we had interests in 313 post-acute/skilled nursing facilities ("snfs"). snfs offer restorative, rehabilitative and custodial nursing care for people not requiring the more extensive and sophisticated treatment available at hospitals. ancillary revenues and revenues from sub-acute care services are derived from providing services to residents beyond room and board and include occupational, physical, speech, respiratory and intravenous therapy, wound care, oncology treatment, brain injury care and orthopedic therapy as well as sales of pharmaceutical products and other services. certain snfs provide some of the foregoing services on an out-patient basis. post-acute/skilled nursing services provided by our operators and tenants in these facilities are primarily paid for either by private sources or through the medicare and medicaid programs. all of our snfs are leased to single tenants under triple-net lease structures. on april 7, 2011, we completed our acquisition of substantially all of the real estate assets of privately-owned hcr manorcare, inc., for a purchase price of $6.1 billion (the "hcr manorcare acquisition"). we acquired 268 post-acute/skilled nursing facilities and 66 assisted living facilities located in 30 states, with the highest concentrations in ohio, pennsylvania, florida, illinois and michigan. a wholly-owned subsidiary of hcr manorcare operates the facilities pursuant to a long-term, triple-net master lease agreement supported by a guaranty from hcr manorcare. additionally, we exercised our option to purchase an interest in the operations of hcr manorcare for $95 million that represented a 9.9% equity interest at closing. for a more detailed description of the hcr manorcare acquisition see note 3 to the consolidated financial statements. our post-acute/skilled nursing segment accounted for approximately 29%, 13% and 10% of total revenues for the years ended december 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. the following table 6 table of contents provides information about our post-acute/skilled nursing operator/tenant concentration for the year ended december 31, 2011: operators/tenants and borrowers percentage of segment revenues percentage of total revenues hcr manorcare (1) 83 27 (1) the percentage of segment revenues and total revenues from hcr manorcare includes interest income of $54.3 million from our former hcr manorcare debt investments that were settled as part of this acquisition for the period preceding the acquisition date discussed above. percentage of total revenues from hcr manorcare includes revenues earned from both our senior housing and post-acute/skilled nursing segments. life science. at december 31, 2011, we had interests in 108 life science properties, including four facilities owned by our investment management platform. these properties contain laboratory and office space primarily for biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, scientific research institutions, government agencies and other organizations involved in the life science industry. while these properties contain similar characteristics to commercial office buildings, they generally contain more advanced electrical, mechanical, and heating, ventilating, and air conditioning ("hvac") systems. the facilities generally have equipment including emergency generators, fume hoods, lab bench tops and related amenities. in many instances, life science tenants make significant investments to improve their leased space, in addition to landlord improvements, to accommodate biology, chemistry or medical device research initiatives. life science properties are primarily configured in business park or campus settings and include multiple facilities and buildings. the business park and campus settings allow us the opportunity to provide flexible, contiguous/adjacent expansion that accommodates the growth of existing tenants. our properties are located in well established geographical markets known for scientific research, including san francisco, san diego and salt lake city. at december 31, 2011, 97% of our life science leases (based on leased square feet) are under triple-net structures. our life science segment accounted for approximately 17%, 22% and 22% of total revenues for the years ended december 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. the following table provides information about our life science tenant concentration for the year ended december 31, 2011: tenants percentage of segment revenues percentage of total revenues genentech, inc. 19 3 amgen, inc. 18 3 medical office. at december 31, 2011, we had interests in 254 medical office buildings ("mobs"), including 66 facilities owned by our investment management platform. these facilities typically contain physicians' offices and examination rooms, and may also include pharmacies, hospital ancillary service space and outpatient services such as diagnostic centers, rehabilitation clinics and day-surgery operating rooms. while these facilities are similar to commercial office buildings, they require additional plumbing, electrical and mechanical systems to accommodate multiple exam rooms that may require sinks in every room, and special equipment such as x-ray machines. in addition, mobs are often built to accommodate higher structural loads for certain equipment and may contain "vaults" or other specialized construction. our mobs are typically multi-tenant properties leased to healthcare providers (hospitals and physician practices), with approximately 83% of our mobs, based on square feet, located on hospital campuses. at december 31, 2011, 48% of our medical office leases (based on leased square feet) are under triple-net structures. our medical office segment accounted for approximately 19%, 25% and 27% of total revenues for the years ended december 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. during the year ended december 31, 2011, hca, inc. ("hca"), as our tenant, contributed 13% of our medical office segment revenues. 7 table of contents our investment management platform represents the following unconsolidated joint ventures: (i) hcp ventures iii, llc, (ii) hcp ventures iv, llc, and (iii) the hcp life science ventures. for a more detailed description of these unconsolidated joint ventures, see note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. hospital. at december 31, 2011, we had interests in 21 hospitals, including four facilities owned by our investment management platform. services provided by our operators and tenants in these facilities are paid for by private sources, third-party payors (e.g., insurance and health maintenance organizations or "hmos"), or through the medicare and medicaid programs. our hospital property types include acute care, long-term acute care, specialty and rehabilitation hospitals. our hospitals are all leased to single tenants or operators under triple-net lease structures. our hospital segment accounted for approximately 5%, 10% and 11% of total revenues for the years ended december 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. the following table provides information about our hospital operator/tenant concentration for the year ended december 31, 2011: operators/tenants and borrowers percentage of segment revenues percentage of total revenues hca (1) 29 4 tenet healthcare corporation ("tenet") 27 1 (1) percentage of total revenues from hca includes revenues earned from both our medical office and hospital segments. investment products properties under lease. we primarily generate revenue by leasing properties under long-term leases. most of our rents and other earned income from leases are received under triple-net leases or leases that provide for a substantial recovery of operating expenses. however, some of our mobs and life science facility rents are structured under gross or modified gross leases. accordingly, for such gross or modified gross leases, we incur certain property operating expenses, such as real estate taxes, repairs and maintenance, property management fees, utilities and insurance. our ability to grow income from properties under lease depends, in part, on our ability to (i) increase rental income and other earned income from leases by increasing rental rates and occupancy levels, (ii) maximize tenant recoveries and (iii) control non-recoverable operating expenses. most of our leases include contractual annual base rent escalation clauses that are either predetermined fixed increases and/or are a function of an inflation index. debt investments. our mezzanine loans are generally secured by a pledge of ownership interests of an entity or entities, which directly or indirectly own properties, and are subordinate to more senior debt, including mortgages and more senior mezzanine loans. our interest in mortgages and construction financing are typically issued by healthcare providers and are generally secured by healthcare real estate. borrowers of our interests in mortgage and construction loans are typically healthcare providers and healthcare real estate generally secures these loans. developments and redevelopments. we generally commit to development projects that are at least 50% pre-leased or when we believe that market conditions will support speculative construction. we work closely with our local real estate service providers, including brokerage, property management, project management and construction management companies to assist us in evaluating development proposals and completing developments. our development and redevelopment investments are primarily in our life science and medical office segments. redevelopments are properties that require significant capital expenditures (generally more than 25% of acquisition cost or existing basis) to achieve property stabilization or to change the primary use of the properties. 8 table of contents investment management. we co-invest in real estate properties with institutional investors through joint ventures structured as partnerships or limited liability companies. we target institutional investors with long-term investment horizons who seek to benefit from our expertise in healthcare real estate. predominantly, we retain noncontrolling interests in the joint ventures ranging from 20% to 30% and serve as the managing member. these ventures generally allow us to earn acquisition and asset management fees, and have the potential for promoted interests or incentive distributions based on performance of the joint venture. operating properties ("ridea"). we entered into contracts with healthcare operators to manage communities that are placed in a structure permitted by the housing and economic recovery act of 2008 (commonly referred to as "ridea"). under the provisions of ridea, a reit may lease "qualified health care properties" on an arm's length basis to a taxable reit subsidiary ("trs") if the property is operated on behalf of such subsidiary by a person who qualifies as an "eligible independent contractor." we view ridea as a structure primarily to be used on properties that present attractive valuation entry points, where repositioning with a new operator that is aligned with hcp can bring scale, operating efficiencies, and/or ancillary services to drive growth. portfolio summary at december 31, 2011, we managed $18.7 billion of investments in our owned portfolio and investment management platform. at december 31, 2011, we also owned $563 million of assets under development, including redevelopment, and land held for future development. owned portfolio as of december 31, 2011, our properties under lease and debt investments in our owned portfolio consisted of the following (square feet and dollars in thousands): year ended december 31, 2011 investment (3) number of properties (1) total investment interest income (5) segment capacity (2) properties (1) debt noi (4) senior housing 314 36,139 units $ 5,896,175 $ 10,256 $ 5,906,431 $ 498,110 $ 178 post-acute/skilled 313 41,803 beds 5,545,472 9,746 (6) 5,555,218 398,218 98,450 (6) life science 104 6,798 sq. ft. 3,259,303 3,259,303 235,355 medical office 188 13,111 sq. ft. 2,297,218 2,297,218 192,796 hospital 17 2,379 beds 648,386 90,250 (7) 738,636 78,798 1,236 total 936 $ 17,646,554 $ 110,252 $ 17,756,806 $ 1,403,277 $ 99,864 (1) represents 915 properties under lease with an investment value of $16.9 billion and 21 operating properties under a ridea structure with an investment value of $749.9 million. (2) senior housing facilities are measured in units (e.g., studio, one or two bedroom units). life science facilities and medical office buildings are measured in square feet. snfs and hospitals are measured in licensed bed count. (3) property investments represent: (i) the carrying amount of real estate and intangibles, after adding back accumulated depreciation and amortization; and (ii) the carrying amount of direct financing leases. debt investment represents the carrying amount of mezzanine, mortgage and other secured loan investments. (4) net operating income from continuing operations ("noi") is a non-gaap supplemental financial measure used to evaluate the operating performance of real estate properties. for the reconciliation of noi to net income for 2011, refer to note 14 in our consolidated financial statements. (5) interest income represents interest earned from our debt investments. (6) post-acute/skilled nursing interest income includes amounts earned from debt investments that were settled, matured or paid off in 2011. (7) includes senior secured loan to cirrus health ("cirrus") that was placed on non-accrual status effective january 1, 2011 with a carrying value of $76 million at december 31, 2011. for a more detailed description of the senior secured loan to cirrus, see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. 9 table of contents see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on our business segments. developments and redevelopments at december 31, 2011, in addition to our investments in properties under lease and debt investments, we have an aggregate investment of $563 million in assets under development, including redevelopment, and land held for future development, primarily in our life science and medical office segments. investment management platform as of december 31, 2011, our investment management platform consisted of the following properties under lease (square feet and dollars in thousands): segment number of properties capacity (1) hcp's ownership interest joint venture investment (2) total revenues total operating expenses medical office (3) 66 3,388 sq. ft. 20 - 30% $ 717,293 $ 72,716 $ 31,330 life science 4 278 sq. ft. 50 - 63% 144,479 11,722 1,505 hospital 4 n/a (4) 20% 81,383 4,497 1,094 total 74 $ 943,155 $ 88,935 $ 33,929 (1) life science facilities and medical office buildings are measured in square feet. (2) represents the joint ventures' carrying amount of real estate and intangibles, after adding back accumulated depreciation and amortization. (3) during 2010, one mob was placed into redevelopment; its statistics are not included in the medical office information. (4) information not provided by the respective operator or tenant. employees of hcp at december 31, 2011, we had 147 full-time employees, none of whom is subject to a collective bargaining agreement. government regulation, licensing and enforcement overview our tenants and operators are typically subject to extensive and complex federal, state and local healthcare laws and regulations relating to fraud and abuse practices, government reimbursement, licensure and certificate of need and similar laws governing the operation of healthcare facilities, and we expect that the healthcare industry, in general, will continue to face increased regulation and pressure in the areas of fraud, waste and abuse, cost control, healthcare management and provision of services, among others. these regulations are wide-ranging and can subject our tenants and operators to civil, criminal and administrative sanctions. affected tenants and operators may find it increasingly difficult to comply with this complex and evolving regulatory environment because of a relative lack of guidance in many areas as certain of our healthcare properties are subject to oversight from several government agencies and the laws may vary from one jurisdiction to another. changes in laws and regulations and reimbursement enforcement activity and regulatory non-compliance by our tenants and operators can all have a significant effect on their operations and financial condition, which in turn may adversely impact us, as detailed below and set forth under "risk factors" in item 1a. we seek to mitigate the risk to us resulting from the significant healthcare regulatory risks faced by our tenants and operators by diversifying our portfolio among property types and geographical areas, diversifying our tenant and operator base to limit our exposure to any single entity, and seeking tenants and operators who are not largely dependent on medicaid reimbursement for their revenues. based on 10 table of contents information primarily provided by our tenants and operators, excluding our medical office segment, at december 31, 2011 we estimate that approximately 21% and 13% of the annualized base rental payments received from our tenants and operators are dependant on medicare and medicaid reimbursement, respectively. the increase in our exposure to medicare and medicaid reimbursement from levels reported as of december 31, 2010 is primarily the result of the facilities acquired through the hcr manorcare acquisition. for additional details of the hcr manorcare acquisition, see note 3 to the consolidated financial statements. the following is a discussion of certain laws and regulations generally applicable to our operators, and in certain cases, to us. fraud and abuse enforcement there are various extremely complex federal and state laws and regulations governing healthcare providers' relationships and arrangements and prohibiting fraudulent and abusive practices by such providers. these laws include (i) federal and state false claims acts, which, among other things, prohibit providers from filing false claims or making false statements to receive payment from medicare, medicaid or other federal or state healthcare programs, (ii) federal and state anti-kickback and fee-splitting statutes, including the medicare and medicaid anti-kickback statute, which prohibit the payment or receipt of remuneration to induce referrals or recommendations of healthcare items or services, (iii) federal and state physician self-referral laws (commonly referred to as the "stark law"), which generally prohibit referrals by physicians to entities with which the physician or an immediate family member has a financial relationship, (iv) the federal civil monetary penalties law, which prohibits, among other things, the knowing presentation of a false or fraudulent claim for certain healthcare services and (v) federal and state privacy laws, including the privacy and security rules contained in the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, which provide for the privacy and security of personal health information. violations of healthcare fraud and abuse laws carry civil, criminal and administrative sanctions, including punitive sanctions, monetary penalties, imprisonment, denial of medicare and medicaid reimbursement and potential exclusion from medicare, medicaid or other federal or state healthcare programs. these laws are enforced by a variety of federal, state and local agencies and can also be enforced by private litigants through, among other things, federal and state false claims acts, which allow private litigants to bring qui tam or "whistleblower" actions. many of our operators and tenants are subject to these laws, and some of them may in the future become the subject of governmental enforcement actions if they fail to comply with applicable laws. reimbursement sources of revenue for many of our tenants and operators include, among other sources, governmental healthcare programs, such as the federal medicare program and state medicaid programs, and non-governmental payors, such as insurance carriers and hmos. as federal and state governments focus on healthcare reform initiatives, and as many states face significant budget deficits, efforts to reduce costs by these payors will likely continue, which may result in reduced or slower growth in reimbursement for certain services provided by some of our tenants and operators. healthcare licensure and certificate of need certain healthcare facilities in our portfolio are subject to extensive federal, state and local licensure, certification and inspection laws and regulations. in addition, various licenses and permits are required to dispense narcotics, operate pharmacies, handle radioactive materials and operate equipment. many states require certain healthcare providers to obtain a certificate of need, which requires prior approval for the construction, expansion and closure of certain healthcare facilities. the approval process related to state certificate of need laws may impact some of our tenants' and operators' abilities to expand or change their businesses. 11 table of contents life science facilities while certain of our life science tenants include some well-established companies, other such tenants are less established and, in some cases, may not yet have a product approved by the food and drug administration or other regulatory authorities for commercial sale. creating a new pharmaceutical product or medical device requires substantial investments of time and money, in part, because of the extensive regulation of the healthcare industry; it also entails considerable risk of failure in demonstrating that the product is safe and effective and in gaining regulatory approval and market acceptance. senior housing entrance fee communities certain of the senior housing facilities mortgaged to or owned by us are operated as entrance fee communities. generally, an entrance fee is an upfront fee or consideration paid by a resident, a portion of which may be refundable, in exchange for some form of long-term benefit. some of the entrance fee communities are subject to significant state regulatory oversight, including, for example, oversight of each facility's financial condition, establishment and monitoring of reserve requirements and other financial restrictions, the right of residents to cancel their contracts within a specified period of time, lien rights in favor of the residents, restrictions on change of ownership and similar matters. americans with disabilities act (the "ada") our properties must comply with the ada and any similar state or local laws to the extent that such properties are "public accommodations" as defined in those statutes. the ada may require removal of barriers to access by persons with disabilities in certain public areas of our properties where such removal is readily achievable. to date, we have not received any notices of noncompliance with the ada that have caused us to incur substantial capital expenditures to address ada concerns. should barriers to access by persons with disabilities be discovered at any of our properties, we may be directly or indirectly responsible for additional costs that may be required to make facilities ada-compliant. noncompliance with the ada could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. the obligation to make readily achievable accommodations pursuant to the ada is an ongoing one, and we continue to assess our properties and make modifications as appropriate in this respect. environmental matters a wide variety of federal, state and local environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations affect healthcare facility operations. these complex federal and state statutes, and their enforcement, involve a myriad of regulations, many of which involve strict liability on the part of the potential offender. some of these federal and state statutes may directly impact us. under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner of real property or a secured lender, such as us, may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances at, under or disposed of in connection with such property, as well as other potential costs relating to hazardous or toxic substances (including government fines and damages for injuries to persons and adjacent property). the cost of any required remediation, removal, fines or personal or property damages and the owner's or secured lender's liability therefore could exceed or impair the value of the property, and/or the assets of the owner or secured lender. in addition, the presence of such substances, or the failure to properly dispose of or remediate such substances, may adversely affect the owner's ability to sell or rent such property or to borrow using such property as collateral which, in turn, could reduce our revenues. for a description of the risks associated with environmental matters, see "risk factors" in item 1a of this report. 12 table of contents item 1a. risk factors the section below discusses the most significant risk factors that may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. as set forth below, we believe that the risks facing our company generally fall into the following three categories: risks related to our business; risks related to tax matters, including reit-related risks; and risks related to our legal organizational structure. risks related to our business volatility or disruption in the financial markets may impair our ability to raise capital, obtain new financing or refinance existing obligations and fund real estate and development activities. the global financial markets recently have undergone and may continue to experience pervasive and fundamental disruptions. while the capital markets have shown signs of improvement, the sustainability of an economic recovery is uncertain and additional levels of market disruption and volatility could materially adversely impact our ability to raise capital, obtain new financing or refinance our existing obligations as they mature and fund real estate and development activities. market volatility could also lead to significant uncertainty in the valuation of our investments and those of our joint ventures, that may result in a substantial decrease in the value of our properties and those of our joint ventures. as a result, we may not be able to recover the carrying amount of such investments and the associated goodwill, if any, which may require us to recognize impairment charges in earnings. we rely on external sources of capital to fund future capital needs and limitations on our access to such capital could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to meet commitments as they become due or make future investments necessary to grow our business. we may not be able to fund all future capital needs from cash retained from operations. if we are unable to obtain enough internal capital, we may need to rely on external sources of capital (including debt and equity financing) to fulfill our capital requirements. if we cannot access these external sources of capital, we may not be able to make the investments needed to grow our business and to meet our obligations and commitments as they mature. our access to capital depends upon a number of factors, some of which we have little or no control over, including but not limited to: general availability of credit and market conditions, including rising interest rates and increased borrowing cost; the market price of the shares of our equity securities and the credit ratings of our debt and preferred securities; the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions; our degree of financial leverage and operational flexibility; the financial integrity of our lenders, which might impair their ability to meet their commitments to us or their willingness to make additional loans to us, and our inability to replace the financing commitment of any such lender on favorable terms, or at all; the stability in the market value of our properties; 13 table of contents the financial performance of our operators, tenants and borrowers; and issues facing the healthcare industry, including, but not limited to, healthcare reform and changes in government reimbursement policies. if our access to capital is limited by these factors or other factors, it could have a material adverse impact on our ability to refinance our debt obligations, fund dividend payments, acquire properties and fund operations and development activities. adverse changes in our credit ratings could impair our ability to obtain additional debt and equity financing on favorable terms, if at all, and negatively impact the market price of our securities, including our common stock. the credit ratings of our senior unsecured debt and preferred equity securities are based on our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position and other factors employed by the credit rating agencies in their rating analyses of us. our credit ratings can affect the amount and type of capital we can access, as well as the terms of any financings we may obtain. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings and in the event that our current credit ratings deteriorate, we would likely incur higher borrowing costs and it may be more difficult or expensive to obtain additional financing or refinance existing obligations and commitments. also, a downgrade in our credit ratings would trigger additional costs or other potentially negative consequences under our current and future credit facilities and debt instruments. our level of indebtedness may increase and materially adversely affect our future operations. our outstanding indebtedness as of december 31, 2011 was approximately $7.7 billion. we may incur additional indebtedness in the future, including in connection with the development or acquisition of assets, which may be substantial. any significant additional indebtedness could negatively affect the credit ratings of our debt and require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to interest and principal payments due on our indebtedness. greater demands on our cash resources may reduce funds available to us to pay dividends, conduct development activities, make capital expenditures and acquisitions, or carry out other aspects of our business strategy. increased indebtedness can also limit our ability to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions, make us more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions and create competitive disadvantages for us compared to other companies with relatively lower debt levels. increased future debt service obligations may limit our operational flexibility, including our ability to finance or refinance our properties, contribute properties to joint ventures or sell properties as needed. covenants related to our indebtedness limit our operational flexibility and breaches of these covenants could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. our unsecured credit facilities, unsecured debt securities and secured debt and other indebtedness that we may incur in the future, require or will require us to comply with a number of customary financial and other covenants, such as maintaining certain levels of debt service coverage and leverage ratio, tangible net worth requirements and maintaining reit status. our continued ability to incur additional debt and to conduct business in general is subject to compliance with these financial and other covenants, which limit our operational flexibility. for example, mortgages on our properties contain customary covenants such as those that limit or restrict our ability, without the consent of the lender, to further encumber or sell the applicable properties, or to replace the applicable tenant or operator. breaches of certain covenants may result in defaults under the mortgages on our properties and cross-defaults under certain of our other indebtedness, even if we satisfy our payment obligations to the respective obligee. additionally, defaults under the leases or operating agreements related to mortgaged properties, including defaults associated with the bankruptcy of the applicable tenant or 14 table of contents operator, may result in a default under the underlying mortgage and cross-defaults under certain of our other indebtedness. covenants that limit our operational flexibility as well as defaults under our debt instruments could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. an increase in interest rates could increase interest cost on new debt, and could materially adversely impact our ability to refinance existing debt, sell assets and limit our acquisition, investment and development activities. if interest rates increase, so could our interest costs for any new debt. this increased cost could make the financing of any acquisition and development activity more costly. rising interest rates could limit our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures, or cause us to pay higher interest rates upon refinancing and increase interest expense on refinanced indebtedness. in addition, an increase in interest rates could decrease the amount third parties are willing to pay for our assets, thereby limiting our ability to reposition our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. unfavorable resolution of litigation matters and disputes, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. from time to time, we are involved in legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims. we may also be named as defendants in lawsuits allegedly arising out of our actions or the actions of our operators and tenants in which such operators and tenants have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with their respective businesses. an unfavorable resolution of litigation may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. regardless of its outcome, litigation may result in substantial costs and expenses and significantly divert the attention of management. there can be no assurance that we will be able to prevail in, or achieve a favorable settlement of, litigation. in addition, litigation, government proceedings or environmental matters could lead to increased costs or interruption of our normal business operations. a small number of operators, tenants and borrowers account for a large percentage of our revenues. during the year ended december 31, 2011, approximately 47% of our rental and related revenues are generated by our leasing or financial arrangements with the following four companies: hcr manorcare (27%); brookdale (7%); emeritus (7%); and sunrise (6%). the failure, inability or unwillingness of these operators, tenants or borrowers to meet their obligations to us could materially reduce our cash flow as well as our results of operations, which could in turn reduce the amount of dividends we pay, cause our stock price to decline and have other material adverse effects on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we may be unable to successfully foreclose on the collateral securing our real estate-related loans, and even if we are successful in our foreclosure efforts, we may be unable to successfully operate, occupy or reposition the underlying real estate, which may adversely affect our ability to recover our investments. if an operator or tenant defaults under one of our mortgages or mezzanine loans, we may have to foreclose on the loan or protect our interest by acquiring title to the collateral and thereafter making substantial improvements or repairs in order to maximize the property's investment potential. in some cases, as noted above, the collateral consists of the equity interests in an entity that directly or indirectly owns the applicable real property or interests in operating facilities and, accordingly, we may not have full recourse to assets of that entity. operators, tenants or borrowers may contest enforcement of foreclosure or other remedies, seek bankruptcy protection against our exercise of enforcement or other remedies and/or bring claims for lender liability in response to actions to enforce mortgage obligations. foreclosure-related costs, high loan-to-value ratios or declines in the value of the facility may prevent us from realizing an amount equal to our mortgage or mezzanine loan upon foreclosure, 15 table of contents and we may be required to record valuation allowance for such losses. even if we are able to successfully foreclose on the collateral securing our real estate-related loans, we may inherit properties for which we may be unable to expeditiously seek tenants or operators, if at all, which would adversely affect our ability to fully recover our investment. required regulatory approvals can delay or prohibit transfers of our healthcare facilities. transfers of healthcare facilities to successor tenants or operators may be subject to regulatory approvals or ratifications, including, but not limited to, change of ownership approvals under certificate of need laws and medicare and medicaid provider arrangements that are not required for transfers of other types of commercial operations and other types of real estate. the replacement of any tenant or operator could be delayed by the regulatory approval process of any federal, state or local government agency necessary for the transfer of the facility or the replacement of the operator licensed to manage the facility. if we are unable to find a suitable replacement tenant or operator upon favorable terms, or at all, we may take possession of a facility, which might expose us to successor liability or require us to indemnify subsequent operators to whom we might transfer the operating rights and licenses, all of which may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. competition may make it difficult to identify and purchase, or develop, suitable healthcare facilities, to grow our investment portfolio. we face significant competition from other reits, investment companies, private equity and hedge fund investors, sovereign funds, healthcare operators, lenders, developers and other institutional investors, some of whom may have greater resources and lower costs of capital than we do. increased competition makes it more challenging for us to identify and successfully capitalize on opportunities that meet our business goals and could improve the bargaining power of property owners seeking to sell, thereby impeding our investment, acquisition and development activities. if we cannot capitalize on our development pipeline, identify and purchase a sufficient quantity of healthcare facilities at favorable prices or if we are unable to finance acquisitions on commercially favorable terms, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. we may be required to incur substantial renovation costs to make certain of our healthcare properties suitable for other operators and tenants. healthcare facilities are typically highly customized and may not be easily adapted to non-healthcare-related uses. the improvements generally required to conform a property to healthcare use, such as upgrading electrical, gas and plumbing infrastructure, are costly and at times tenant-specific. a new or replacement operator or tenant may require different features in a property, depending on that operator's or tenant's particular operations. if a current operator or tenant is unable to pay rent and vacates a property, we may incur substantial expenditures to modify a property before we are able to secure another operator or tenant. also, if the property needs to be renovated to accommodate multiple operators or tenants, we may incur substantial expenditures before we are able to re-lease the space. these expenditures or renovations may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 16 table of contents we face additional risks associated with property development that can render a project less profitable or not profitable at all and, under certain circumstances, prevent completion of development activities once undertaken. large-scale, ground-up development of healthcare properties presents additional risks for us, including risks that: a development opportunity may be abandoned after expending significant resources resulting in the loss of deposits or failure to recover expenses already incurred; the development and construction costs of a project may exceed original estimates due to increased interest rates and higher materials, transportation, labor, leasing or other costs, which could make the completion of the development project less profitable; construction and/or permanent financing may not be available on favorable terms or at all; the project may not be completed on schedule, which can result in increases in construction costs and debt service expenses as a result of a variety of factors that are beyond our control, including natural disasters, labor conditions, material shortages, regulatory hurdles, civil unrest and acts of war; and occupancy rates and rents at a newly completed property may not meet expected levels and could be insufficient to make the property profitable. these risks could result in substantial unanticipated delays or expenses and, under certain circumstances, could prevent completion of development activities once undertaken, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our use of joint ventures may limit our flexibility with jointly owned investments. we have and may continue in the future to develop and/or acquire properties in joint ventures with other persons or entities when circumstances warrant the use of these structures. our participation in joint ventures is subject to risks that may not be present with other methods of ownership, including: we could experience an impasse on certain decisions because we do not have sole decision-making authority, which could require us to expend additional resources on resolving such impasses or potential disputes, including litigation or arbitration; our joint venture partners could have investment goals that are not consistent with our investment objectives, including the timing, terms and strategies for any investments; our ability to transfer our interest in a joint venture to a third party may be restricted; our joint venture partners might become bankrupt, fail to fund their share of required capital contributions or fail to fulfill their obligations as a joint venture partner, which may require us to infuse our own capital into the venture on behalf of the partner despite other competing uses for such capital; and our joint venture partners may have competing interests in our markets that could create conflict of interest issues. from time to time, we acquire other companies and if we are unable to successfully integrate these operations, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. acquisitions require the integration of companies that have previously operated independently. successful integration of the operations of these companies depends primarily on our ability to consolidate operations, systems, procedures, properties and personnel and to eliminate redundancies and costs. we may encounter difficulties in these integrations. potential difficulties associated with 17 table of contents acquisitions include the loss of key employees, the disruption of our ongoing business or that of the acquired entity, possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies and the assumption of unexpected liabilities, including: liabilities relating to the clean-up or remediation of undisclosed environmental conditions; unasserted claims of vendors or other persons dealing with the seller; liabilities, claims and litigation, whether or not incurred in the ordinary course of business, relating to periods prior to our acquisition; claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the seller; and liabilities for taxes relating to periods prior to our acquisition. in addition, the acquired companies and their properties may fail to perform as expected, including in respect of estimated cost savings. inaccurate assumptions regarding future rental or occupancy rates could result in overly optimistic estimates of future revenues. similarly, we may underestimate future operating expenses or the costs necessary to bring properties up to standards established for their intended use. if we have difficulties with any of these areas, or if we later discover additional liabilities or experience unforeseen costs relating to our acquired companies, we might not achieve the economic benefits we expect from our acquisitions, and this may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. from time to time we have made, and in the future we may seek to make, one or more material acquisitions, which may involve the expenditure of significant funds. we regularly review potential transactions in order to maximize shareholder value and believe that currently there are available a number of acquisition opportunities that would be complementary to our business, given the recent industry consolidation trend. in connection with our review of such transactions, we regularly engage in discussions with potential acquisition candidates, some of which are material. any future acquisitions could require the issuance of securities, the incurrence of debt, assumption of contingent liabilities or incurrence of significant expenditures, any of which could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, the financing required for such acquisitions may not be available on commercially favorable terms or at all. loss of our key personnel could temporarily disrupt our operations and adversely affect us. we are dependent on the efforts of our executive officers, and competition for these individuals is intense. although our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief investment officer and general counsel have employment agreements with us, we cannot assure you that they will remain employed with us. the loss or limited availability of the services of any of our executive officers, or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could, at least temporarily, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and be negatively perceived in the capital markets. we may experience uninsured or underinsured losses, which could result in a significant loss of the capital we have invested in a property, decrease anticipated future revenues or cause us to incur unanticipated expense. we maintain comprehensive insurance coverage on our properties with terms, conditions, limits and deductibles that we believe are adequate and appropriate given the relative risk and costs of such coverage, and we continually review the insurance maintained by us. however, a large number of our properties are located in areas exposed to earthquake, windstorm, flood and other natural disasters and 18 table of contents may be subject to other losses. in particular, our life science portfolio is concentrated in areas known to be subject to earthquake activity. while we purchase insurance for earthquake, windstorm, flood and other natural disasters that we believe is adequate in light of current industry practice and analysis prepared by outside consultants, there is no assurance that such insurance will fully cover such losses. these losses can decrease our anticipated revenues from a property and result in the loss of all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property. the insurance market for such exposures can be very volatile and we may be unable to purchase the limits and terms we desire on a commercially reasonable basis in the future. in addition, there are certain exposures where insurance is not purchased as we do not believe it is economically feasible to do so or where there is no viable insurance market. environmental compliance costs and liabilities associated with our real estate related investments may materially impair the value of those investments. under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, as a current or previous owner of real estate, we may be required to investigate and clean up certain hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum released at a property, and may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage and for investigation and cleanup costs incurred by the third parties in connection with the contamination. in addition, some environmental laws create a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and the costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. although we (i) currently carry environmental insurance on our properties in an amount and subject to deductibles that we believe are commercially reasonable, and (ii) generally require our operators and tenants to undertake to indemnify us for environmental liabilities they cause, such liabilities could exceed the amount of our insurance, the financial ability of the tenant or operator to indemnify us or the value of the contaminated property. the presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may materially adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. as the owner of a site, we may also be held liable under common law to third parties for damages and injuries resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the site. although we are generally indemnified by the current operators or tenants of our properties for contamination caused by them, these indemnities may not adequately cover all environmental costs. we may also experience environmental liabilities arising from conditions not known to us. the bankruptcy, insolvency or financial deterioration of one or more of our major operators or tenants may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we lease our properties directly to operators in most cases, and in certain other cases, we lease to third-party tenants who enter into long-term management agreements with operators to manage the properties. although our leases, financing arrangements and other agreements with our tenants and operators generally provide us the right under specified circumstances to terminate a lease, evict an operator or tenant, or demand immediate repayment of certain obligations to us, the bankruptcy and insolvency laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization that may render certain of these remedies unenforceable, or at the least, delay our ability to pursue such remedies. for example, we cannot evict a tenant or operator solely because of its bankruptcy filing. a debtor has the right to assume, or to assume and assign to a third party, or to reject its unexpired contracts in a bankruptcy proceeding. if a debtor were to reject its leases with us, our claim against the debtor for unpaid and future rents would be limited by the statutory cap set forth in the u.s. bankruptcy code, which may be substantially less than the remaining rent actually owed under the lease. in addition, the inability of our tenants or operators to make payments or comply with certain other lease obligations may affect our compliance with certain covenants contained in our debt securities, credit facilities and the mortgages on the properties leased or managed by such tenants and operators. in addition, under certain conditions, defaults under the underlying mortgages may result in 19 table of contents cross-default under our other indebtedness. although we believe that we would be able to secure amendments under the applicable agreements in those circumstances, the bankruptcy of an applicable operator or tenant may potentially result in less favorable borrowing terms than currently available, delays in the availability of funding or other material adverse consequences. in addition, many of our facilities are leased to health care providers who provide long-term custodial care to the elderly; evicting such operators for failure to pay rent while the facility is occupied may be a difficult and slow process and may not be successful. the current u.s. housing market may adversely affect our operators' and tenants' ability to increase or maintain occupancy levels at, and rental income from, our senior housing facilities. our tenants and operators may have relatively flat or declining occupancy levels in the near-term due to falling home prices, declining incomes, stagnant home sales and other economic factors. seniors may choose to postpone their plans to move into senior housing facilities rather than sell their homes at a loss, or for a profit below their expectations. moreover, tightening lending standards have made it more difficult for potential buyers to obtain mortgage financing, all of which have contributed to the declining home sales. in addition, the senior housing segment may continue to experience a decline in occupancy associated with private pay residents choosing to move out of the facilities to be cared for at home by relatives due to the weak economy. a material decline in our tenants' and operators' occupancy levels and revenues may make it more difficult for them to meet their financial obligations to us, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. operators and tenants that fail to comply with the requirements of governmental reimbursement programs such as medicare or medicaid, may cease to operate or be unable to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us. certain of our operators and tenants are affected by an extremely complex set of federal, state and local laws and regulations that are subject to frequent and substantial changes (sometimes applied retroactively) resulting from legislation, adoption of rules and regulations, and administrative and judicial interpretations of existing law. see "item 1 business government regulation, licensing and enforcement" above. for example, to the extent that any of our operators or tenants receive a significant portion of their revenues from governmental payors, primarily medicare and medicaid, such revenues may be subject to: statutory and regulatory changes; retroactive rate adjustments; recovery of program overpayments or set-offs; administrative rulings; policy interpretations; payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries or carriers; government funding restrictions (at a program level or with respect to specific facilities); and interruption or delays in payments due to any ongoing governmental investigations and audits at such property. in recent years, governmental payors have frozen or reduced payments to healthcare providers due to budgetary pressures. healthcare reimbursement will likely continue to be of significant importance to federal and state authorities. we cannot make any assessment as to the ultimate timing or the effect that any future legislative reforms may have on our operators' and tenants' costs of doing business and on the amount of reimbursement by government and other third-party payors. the failure of any of our 20 table of contents operators or tenants to comply with these laws, requirements and regulations could materially adversely affect their ability to meet their financial and contractual obligations to us. operators and tenants that fail to comply with federal, state and local licensure, certification and inspection laws and regulations may cease to operate or be unable to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us. certain of our operators and tenants are subject to extensive federal, state, local and industry-related licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations and standards. our operators' or tenants' failure to comply with any of these laws, regulations or standards could result in loss of accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension or decertification from federal and state healthcare programs, loss of license or closure of the facility. for example, certain of our properties may require a license, registration and/or certificate of need to operate. failure of any operator or tenant to obtain a license, registration or certificate of need, or loss of a required license, registration or certificate of need, would prevent a facility from operating in the manner intended by such operator or tenant. additionally, failure of our operators and tenants to generally comply with applicable laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on facilities owned by or mortgaged to us, and therefore may materially adversely impact us. see "item 1 business government regulation, licensing and enforcement healthcare licensure and certificate of need" above. the impact of the comprehensive healthcare regulation enacted in 2010 on us and operators and tenants cannot accurately be predicted. legislative proposals are introduced or proposed in congress and in some state legislatures each year that would affect major changes in the healthcare system, either nationally or at the state level. notably, in march 2010, president obama signed into law the patient protection and affordable care act, along with the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (collectively, the "affordable care act"). the passage of the affordable care act has resulted in comprehensive reform legislation that is expected to expand health care coverage to millions of currently uninsured people beginning in 2014 and provide for significant changes to the u.s. healthcare system over the next ten years. to help fund this expansion, the affordable care act outlines certain reductions in medicare reimbursement rates for various healthcare providers, including long-term acute care hospitals and skilled nursing facilities, as well as certain other changes to medicare payment methodologies. this comprehensive health care legislation provides for extensive future rulemaking by regulatory authorities, and also may be altered or amended. we cannot accurately predict whether any pending legislative proposals will be adopted or, if adopted, what effect, if any, these proposals would have on our operators and tenants and, thus, our business. similarly, while we can anticipate that some of the rulemaking that will be promulgated by regulatory authorities will affect our operators and tenants and the manner in which they are reimbursed by the federal health care programs, we cannot accurately predict today the impact of those regulations on our operators and tenants and thus on our business. increased competition, as well as an inability to grow revenues as originally forecast, have resulted and may further result in lower net revenues for some of our operators and tenants and may affect their ability to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us. the healthcare industry is highly competitive and can become more competitive in the future. the occupancy levels at, and rental income from, our facilities is dependent on our ability and the ability of our operators and tenants to maintain and increase such levels and income and to compete with entities that have substantial capital resources. these entities compete with other operators and tenants on a number of different levels, including the quality of care provided, reputation, the physical appearance of a facility, price, the range of services offered, family preference, alternatives for healthcare delivery, the supply of competing properties, physicians, staff, referral sources, location and 21 table of contents the size and demographics of the population in the surrounding area. private, federal and state payment programs and the effect of laws and regulations may also have a significant influence on the profitability of the properties and their tenants. our operators and tenants also compete with numerous other companies providing similar healthcare services or alternatives such as home health agencies, life care at home, community-based service programs, retirement communities and convalescent centers. such competition, which has intensified due to overbuilding in some segments in which we invest, has caused the occupancy rate of newly constructed buildings to slow and the monthly rate that many newly built and previously existing facilities were able to obtain for their services to decrease. we cannot be certain that the operators and tenants of all of our facilities will be able to achieve occupancy and rate levels that will enable them to meet all of their obligations to us. further, many competing companies may have resources and attributes that are superior to those of our operators and tenants. thus, our operators and tenants may encounter increased competition in the future that could limit their ability to maintain or attract residents or expand their businesses which could materially adversely affect their ability to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us, potentially decreasing our revenues, impairing our assets, and increasing our collection and dispute costs. our operators and tenants may not procure the necessary insurance to adequately insure against losses. our leases generally require our tenants and operators to secure and maintain comprehensive liability and property insurance that covers us, as well as the tenants and operators. some types of losses may not be adequately insured by our tenants and operators. should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could incur liability or lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenues from the property. in such an event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. we continually review the insurance maintained by our tenants and operators and believe the coverage provided to be customary for similarly situated companies in our industry. however, we cannot assure you that material uninsured losses, or losses in excess of insurance proceeds, will not occur in the future. our operators and tenants are faced with litigation and may experience rising liability and insurance costs. in some states, advocacy groups have been created to monitor the quality of care at healthcare facilities and these groups have brought litigation against the operators and tenants of such facilities. also, in several instances, private litigation by patients has succeeded in winning large damage awards for alleged abuses. the effect of this litigation and other potential litigation may materially increase the costs incurred by our operators and tenants for monitoring and reporting quality of care compliance. in addition, their cost of liability and medical malpractice insurance can be significant and may increase so long as the present healthcare litigation environment continues. cost increases could cause our operators to be unable to make their lease or mortgage payments or fail to purchase the appropriate liability and malpractice insurance, potentially decreasing our revenues and increasing our collection and litigation costs. in addition, as a result of our ownership of healthcare facilities, we may be named as a defendant in lawsuits allegedly arising from the actions of our operators or tenants, for which claims such operators and tenants have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against, but which may require unanticipated expenditures on our part. our tenants in the life science industry face high levels of regulation, expense and uncertainty. life science tenants, particularly those involved in developing and marketing pharmaceutical products, are subject to certain unique risks, as follows: some of our tenants require significant outlays of funds for the research, development and clinical testing of their products and technologies. if private investors, the government or other sources of funding are unavailable to support such activities, a tenant's business may be adversely affected or fail; 22 table of contents the research, development, clinical testing, manufacture and marketing of some of our tenants' products require federal, state and foreign regulatory approvals which may be costly or difficult to obtain; even after a life science tenant gains regulatory approval and market acceptance, the product may still present significant regulatory and liability risks, including, among others, the possible later discovery of safety concerns, competition from new products, and ultimately the expiration of patent protection for the product; our tenants with marketable products may be adversely affected by healthcare reform and the reimbursement policies of government or private healthcare payors; and our tenants may be unable to adequately protect their intellectual property under patent, copyright or trade secret laws. we cannot assure you that our life science tenants will be successful in their businesses. if our tenants' businesses are adversely affected, they may have difficulty making payments to us, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. tax and reit-related risks loss of our tax status as a reit would substantially reduce our available funds and would have material adverse consequences for us and the value of our common stock. qualification as a reit involves the application of numerous highly technical and complex provisions of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the "code"), for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations, as well as the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. we intend to continue to operate in a manner that enables us to qualify as a reit. however, our qualification and taxation as a reit depend upon our ability to meet, through actual annual operating results, asset diversification, distribution levels and diversity of stock ownership, the various qualification tests imposed under the code. for example, to qualify as a reit, at least 95% of our gross income in any year must be derived from qualifying sources, and we must make distributions to our stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our reit taxable income, excluding net capital gains. in addition, new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could change the tax laws or interpretations of the tax laws regarding qualification as a reit, or the federal income tax consequences of that qualification, in a manner that is materially adverse to our stockholders. accordingly, there is no assurance that we have operated or will continue to operate in a manner so as to qualify or remain qualified as a reit. if we lose our reit status, we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available to make payments of principal and interest on the debt securities we issue and to make distributions to stockholders. if we fail to qualify as a reit: we will not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income; we will be subject to corporate-level income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates; we could be subject to increased state and local income taxes; and unless we are entitled to relief under relevant statutory provisions, we will be disqualified from taxation as a reit for the four taxable years following the year during which we fail to qualify as a reit. 23 table of contents as a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a reit also could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital and could materially adversely affect the value of our common stock. certain property transfers may generate prohibited transaction income, resulting in a penalty tax on gain attributable to the transaction. from time to time, we may transfer or otherwise dispose of some of our properties. under the code, any gain resulting from transfers of properties that we hold as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business would be treated as income from a prohibited transaction subject to a 100% penalty tax. since we acquire properties for investment purposes, we do not believe that our occasional transfers of property are prohibited transactions. however, the determination that a transfer constitutes a prohibited transaction is based on the facts and circumstances surrounding each transfer. the internal revenue service ("irs") may contend that certain transfers of properties by us are prohibited transactions. while we believe that the irs would not prevail in any such dispute, if the irs were to argue successfully that a transfer of property constituted a prohibited transaction, then we would be required to pay a 100% penalty tax on any gain from the prohibited transaction. in addition, income from a prohibited transaction might materially adversely affect our ability to satisfy the income tests for qualification as a reit for federal income tax purposes. certain properties are leased to our trss pursuant to the provisions of ridea. we currently lease certain qualified healthcare properties to our trss (or a limited liability company of which the trs is a member). these trss in turn contract with third-party operators to manage the healthcare operations at these properties. the rents paid by the trss in this ridea structure will be treated as qualifying rents from real property if (i) they are paid pursuant to an arms-length lease of a qualified healthcare property and (ii) the operator qualifies as an "eligible independent contractor" with respect to the property. an operator will qualify as an eligible independent contractor if it meets certain ownership tests with respect to hcp, inc., and if, at the time the operator enters into the management agreement, the operator is actively engaged in the trade or business of operating qualified healthcare properties for any person who is not a related person to hcp, inc. or the lessee. if any of the above conditions are not satisfied, then the rents will not be considered income from a qualifying source as discussed above. we could have potential deferred and contingent tax liabilities from corporate acquisitions that could limit, delay or impede future sales of our properties. if, during the ten-year period beginning on the date we acquire certain companies, we recognize gain on the disposition of any property acquired, then, to the extent of the excess of (i) the fair market value of such property as of the acquisition date over (ii) our adjusted income tax basis in such property as of that date, we will be required to pay a corporate-level federal income tax on this gain at the highest regular corporate rate. there can be no assurance that these triggering dispositions will not occur, and these requirements could limit, delay or impede future sales of our properties. in addition, the irs may assert liabilities against us for corporate income taxes for taxable years prior to the time that we acquire certain companies, in which case we will owe these taxes plus interest and penalties, if any. there are uncertainties relating to the calculation of non-reit tax earnings and profits ("e&amp;p") in certain acquisitions, which may require us to distribute e&amp;p. in order to remain qualified as a reit, we are required to distribute to our stockholders all of the accumulated non-reit e&amp;p of certain companies that we acquire, prior to the close of the first 24 table of contents taxable year in which the acquisition occurs. failure to make such e&amp;p distributions would result in our disqualification as a reit. the determination of the amount to be distributed in such e&amp;p distributions is a complex factual and legal determination. we may have less than complete information at the time we undertake our analysis, or we may interpret the applicable law differently from the irs. we currently believe that we have satisfied the requirements relating to such e&amp;p distributions. there are, however, substantial uncertainties relating to the determination of e&amp;p, including the possibility that the irs could successfully assert that the taxable income of the companies acquired should be increased, which would increase our non-reit e&amp;p. moreover, an audit of the acquired company following our acquisition could result in an increase in accumulated non-reit e&amp;p, which could require us to pay an additional taxable distribution to our then-existing stockholders, if we qualify under rules for curing this type of default, or could result in our disqualification as a reit. thus, we might fail to satisfy the requirement that we distribute all of our non-reit e&amp;p by the close of the first taxable year in which the acquisition occurs. moreover, although there are procedures available to cure a failure to distribute all of our e&amp;p, we cannot now determine whether we will be able to take advantage of these procedures or the economic impact on us of doing so. risks related to our legal organizational structure our charter contains ownership limits with respect to our common stock and other classes of capital stock. our charter contains restrictions on the ownership and transfer of our common stock and preferred stock that are intended to assist us in preserving our qualification as a reit. under our charter, subject to certain exceptions, no person or entity may own, actually or constructively, more than 9.8% (by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the outstanding shares of our common stock or any class or series of our preferred stock. additionally, our charter has a 9.9% ownership limitation on the direct or indirect ownership of our voting shares, which may include common stock or other classes of capital stock. our board of directors, in its sole discretion, may exempt a proposed transferee from either ownership limit. the ownership limits may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. we are subject to certain provisions of maryland law and our charter relating to business combinations. the maryland business combination act provides that unless exempted, a maryland corporation may not engage in business combinations, including a merger, consolidation, share exchange or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities with an "interested stockholder" or an affiliate of an interested stockholder for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder became an interested stockholder, and thereafter unless specified criteria are met. an interested stockholder is generally a person owning or controlling, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting power of the outstanding voting stock of a maryland corporation. unless our board of directors takes action to exempt us, generally or with respect to certain transactions, from this statute in the future, the maryland business combination act will be applicable to business combinations between us and other persons. in addition to the restrictions on business combinations contained in the maryland business combination act, our charter also contains restrictions on business combinations. our charter requires that, except in certain circumstances, "business combinations," including a merger or consolidation, and certain asset transfers and issuances of securities, with a "related person," including a beneficial owner of 10% or more of our outstanding voting stock, be approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 90% of our outstanding voting stock. 25 table of contents the restrictions on business combinations provided under maryland law and contained in our charter may delay, defer or prevent a change of control or other transaction even if such transaction involves a premium price for our common stock or our stockholders believe that such transaction is otherwise in their best interests. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 58 the table below sets forth information with respect to our debt, excluding premiums and discounts (dollars in thousands): as of december 31, (1) 2011 2010 balance: fixed rate $ 7,166,349 $ 4,260,027 variable rate 502,919 306,290 total $ 7,669,268 $ 4,566,317 percent of total debt: fixed rate 93 % 93 % variable rate 7 7 total 100 % 100 % weighted average interest rate at end of period: fixed rate 5.83 % 6.35 % variable rate 2.19 % 4.03 % total weighted average rate 5.59 % 6.19 % (1) excludes $88 million of other debt that represents non-interest bearing life care bonds and occupancy fee deposits at certain of our senior housing facilities, which have no scheduled maturities. operating expenses. year ended december 31, change segments 2011 2010 $ % (dollars in thousands) senior housing $ 34,546 $ 28,797 $ 5,749 20 % post-acute/skilled nursing 593 200 393 nm (1) life science 52,796 48,492 4,304 9 medical office 127,907 127,883 24 nm (1) hospital 4,330 4,830 (500 ) (10 ) total $ 220,172 $ 210,202 $ 9,970 5 % (1) percentage change not meaningful. operating expenses are generally related to mob and life science properties where we incur the expenses and recover all or a portion of those expenses from the tenants and properties managed on our behalf (e.g., ridea properties). the presentation of expenses as operating or general and administrative is based on the underlying nature of the expense. periodically, we review the classification of expenses between categories and make revisions based on changes in the underlying nature of the expenses. senior housing. the increase in senior housing operating expenses was primarily the result of the operating expenses from 21 senior housing communities managed by brookdale that are in a 46 table of contents ridea structure beginning september 1, 2011, which were partially offset by including facility-level operating expenses in 2010 for 27 properties due to the consolidation of four variable interest entities from august 31, 2010 to november 1, 2010. life science. the increase in life science operating expenses was primarily the result of the additive effect of our life science facility acquisitions during 2010 and 2011. general and administrative expenses. general and administrative expenses increased $13.1 million to $96.2 million for the year ended december 31, 2011. the increase in general and administrative expenses was a result of increases in acquisition costs, primarily attributable to our hcr manorcare acquisition and compensation related expenses. these increases were partially offset by a decrease in legal fees associated with litigation matters (see the information set forth under the heading "legal proceedings" of note 12 to the consolidated financial statements). litigation settlement and provision. on november 9, 2011, we entered into an agreement with ventas, inc. to settle all remaining claims relating to ventas's litigation against us arising out of ventas's 2007 acquisition of sunrise senior living reit. as part of the settlement, we agreed to pay $125 million to ventas, which resulted in a charge for the same amount (see the information set forth under the heading "legal proceedings" of note 12 to the consolidated financial statements). no similar charges were recognized during the year ended december 31, 2010. impairments (recoveries). during the year ended december 31, 2011, we recognized an impairment of $15.4 million related to our cirrus senior secured term loan as a result of concluding that the carrying value of this loan was in excess of the fair value of the related collateral supporting this loan (see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements). during the year ended december 31, 2010, we recognized aggregate income of $11.9 million, which represents impairment recoveries of portions of impairment charges in 2009 of investments related to erickson retirement communities and its affiliate entities ("erickson"). erickson was the tenant at three of our senior housing ccrc dfls and the borrower of a senior construction loan in which we had a participation interest (see note 6 to the consolidated financial statements). other income, net. for the year ended december 31, 2011, other income, net decreased $3.5 million to $12.3 million. the year ended december 31, 2011, included the net impact of the following: (i) a gain of $7.8 million resulting from our january 2011 acquisition of our partner's 65% interest in and consolidation of hcp ventures ii, (ii) income of $5.7 million in connection with a litigation settlement in june 2011 for proceeds owed to the company from a sale of assets, and (iii) a charge of $5.4 million for an other-than-temporary impairment of marketable equity securities. the year ended december 31, 2010 included gains on marketable securities of $14.5 million. equity income from unconsolidated joint ventures. during the year ended december 31, 2011, equity income from unconsolidated joint ventures increased $42.0 million to $46.8 million. this increase was primarily a result of equity income from our nearly 10% partnership interest in hcr manorcare, inc. (see notes 3 and 8 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information), partially offset by the impact of our consolidation of hcp ventures ii on january 14, 2011, which was previously accounted for as an equity method investment. impairments of investments in unconsolidated joint ventures. during the year ended december 31, 2010, we recognized impairments of $71.7 million related to our 35% interest in hcp ventures ii, an unconsolidated joint venture that owns 25 senior housing properties previously leased by horizon bay (see note 8 to the consolidated financial statements). no similar impairments were recognized during the year ended december 31, 2011. 47 table of contents discontinued operations. income from discontinued operations for the year ended december 31, 2011 was $4.2 million, compared to $23.7 million for the comparable period in 2010. the decrease is primarily due to a decrease in gains on real estate dispositions of $16.8 million and a decline in operating income from discontinued operations of $2.7 million. during the year ended december 31, 2011, we sold three properties for $19 million, compared to 14 properties for $56 million for the year ended december 31, 2010. comparison of the year ended december 31, 2010 to the year ended december 31, 2009 rental and related revenues. year ended december 31, change segments 2010 2009 $ % (dollars in thousands) senior housing $ 299,232 $ 286,010 $ 13,222 5 % post-acute/skilled nursing 37,242 36,585 657 2 life science 237,160 214,134 23,026 11 medical office 262,854 260,238 2,616 1 hospital 81,091 79,372 1,719 2 total $ 917,579 $ 876,339 $ 41,240 5 % senior housing. the increase in senior housing rental and related revenues for the year ended december 31, 2010 was primarily related to: (i) a $7.6 million increase as a result of improved rental revenues related to the transition of properties to new operators of 15 communities previously operated by sunrise effective october 1, 2009; (ii) the additive effect of our acquisitions in 2010 and (iii) increases from rent escalations and resets. the increase in senior housing rental and related revenues above was partially offset by income of $6.4 million in 2009 resulting from a correction to the purchase price allocation of certain assets acquired in 2006. life science. the increase in life science rental and related revenues was primarily the result of assets that were placed in service in 2010, which were previously under development. resident fees and services. resident fees and services for the year ended december 31, 2010 includes $32.6 million of revenues for 27 properties due to the consolidation of four vies from august 31, 2010 to november 1, 2010. no vies were consolidated or ridea structures were in place during 2009; therefore, no resident fees and services were recognized during the year ended december 31, 2009. income from direct financing leases. income from dfls decreased $2.1 million to $49.4 million for the year ended december 31, 2010. the decrease was primarily due to three dfls that were deemed to be substantially impaired during 2009 (see note 6 to the consolidated financial statements). interest income. for the year ended december 31, 2010, interest income increased $36.0 million to $160.2 million. the increase was primarily related to: (i) $30.4 million of additional interest earned from the purchase of a participation in the first mortgage debt of hcr manorcare in august 2009, (ii) $11 million of prepayment penalty upon the early repayment of a mortgage loan that was secured by a hospital, and (iii) $8.0 million of additional income earned from the debt investments of genesis purchased during 2010. these increases in interest income were partially offset by a $12.7 million decrease of interest earned from marketable debt securities that were sold in 2009 and 2010. for a more detailed description of our mezzanine loan and participation in the first mortgage debt of hcr manorcare and genesis, see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. 48 table of contents depreciation and amortization expense. depreciation and amortization expenses decreased $4.7 million to $311.2 million for the year ended december 31, 2010. the decrease in depreciation and amortization expense is primarily the result of lower depreciation from assets that were fully depreciated in 2009 and 2010, partially offset by additional amortization expense from leasing costs and tenant and capital improvements expenditures that were incurred in 2009 and 2010, and increases due to our 2010 real estate acquisitions. interest expense. for the year ended december 31, 2010, interest expense decreased $10.2 million to $288.7 million. the decrease was primarily due to the decrease of: (i) $5.8 million from the net impact of the repayment of mortgage debt related to contractual maturities, partially offset by secured debt financing obtained in connection with our purchase of a participation in the first mortgage debt of hcr manorcare, (ii) $4.6 million resulting from the repayment of our bridge loan in may 2009 and term loan in march 2010, (iii) $2.9 million resulting from the repayment of $206 million of senior unsecured notes in 2010 and (iv) $1.7 million resulting from the benefit of an interest-rate swap (pay float and receive fixed) that was placed on $250 million of our unsecured senior notes in june 2009. the decreases in interest expense were partially offset by a decrease of $4.3 million of capitalized interest related to assets under development in our life science segment that were placed in service during 2010. our exposure to expense fluctuations related to our variable rate indebtedness is mitigated by our variable rate investments. for a more detailed discussion of our interest rate risk, see "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" in item 7a. the table below sets forth information with respect to our debt, excluding premiums and discounts (dollars in thousands): as of december 31, (1) 2010 2009 balance: fixed rate $ 4,260,027 $ 4,595,199 variable rate 306,290 972,427 total $ 4,566,317 $ 5,567,626 percent of total debt: fixed rate 93 % 83 % variable rate 7 17 total 100 % 100 % weighted average interest rate at end of period: fixed rate 6.35 % 6.32 % variable rate 4.03 % 2.47 % total weighted average rate 6.19 % 5.65 % (1) excludes $88 million of other debt that represents non-interest bearing life care bonds and occupancy fee deposits at certain of our senior housing facilities, which have no scheduled maturities. 49 table of contents operating expenses. year ended december 31, change segments 2010 2009 $ % (dollars in thousands) senior housing $ 28,797 $ 1,525 $ 27,272 nm (1) post-acute/skilled nursing 200 135 65 48 life science 48,492 47,285 1,207 3 % medical office 127,883 130,477 (2,594 ) (2 ) hospital 4,830 3,874 956 25 total $ 210,202 $ 183,296 $ 26,906 15 % (1) percentage change not meaningful. operating expenses are generally related to mob and life science properties where we incur the expenses and recover all or a portion of those expenses from the tenants and properties managed on our behalf (e.g., ridea properties). the presentation of expenses as operating or general and administrative is based on the underlying nature of the expense. periodically, we review the classification of expenses between categories and make revisions based on changes in the underlying nature of the expenses. the increase in operating expenses during the year ended december 31, 2010 was primarily the result of including facility-level expenses for 27 properties as a result of the consolidation of four vies from august 31, 2010 to november 1, 2010. general and administrative expenses. general and administrative expenses increased $5.0 million to $83.0 million for the year ended december 31, 2010. the increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to increased costs related to acquisitions pursued in 2010, partially offset by a decrease in legal fees associated with litigation matters and lower professional fees (see the information set forth under the heading "legal proceedings" of note 12 to the consolidated financial statements). litigation settlement and provision. on september 4, 2009, a jury returned a verdict in favor of ventas, inc., in an action brought against us in the united states district court for the western district of kentucky for tortious interference with prospective business advantage in connection with ventas's 2007 acquisition of sunrise reit. the jury awarded ventas approximately $102 million in compensatory damages, which we recorded as a litigation provision expense during 2009 (see the information set forth under the heading "legal proceedings" of note 12 to the consolidated financial statements). no similar charges were recognized during the year ended december 31, 2010. impairments (recoveries). the year ended december 31, 2010 includes income of $11.9 million related to impairment recoveries of portions of previous impairment charges of investments related to erickson. erickson was the tenant at three of our senior housing ccrc dfls and the borrower of a senior construction loan in which we had a participation interest. the year ended december 31, 2009 includes impairments of $75.5 million as a result of (i) an aggregate $63.1 million provision related to dfl and loan losses (impairment charges) related to the bankruptcy of erickson who was the tenant at three of our senior housing ccrc dfls and the borrower of a senior construction loan in which we had a participation interest (see note 6 to the consolidated financial statements), (ii) $5.9 million of intangible assets on 12 of 15 senior housing communities that were written off due to the termination of the sunrise management agreements on 15 senior housing communities effective october 1, 2009, (iii) $4.3 million related to a senior secured term loan as a result of an expected restructuring of terms to the loan following the default of the borrower 50 table of contents in our hospital segment (see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements), and (iv) $2.2 million related to intangible assets associated with the early termination of a lease in our life science segment. other income, net. for the year ended december 31, 2010, other income, net increased $8.1 million to $15.8 million. the increase was primarily a result of: (i) increases in gains on sales of marketable securities of $5.5 million and (ii) a $1.4 million of other-than-temporary impairments of goodwill recognized in 2009. for a more detailed description of our marketable securities investments (see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements). income taxes. income taxes decreased $1.5 million to $0.4 million for the year ended december 31, 2010. the decrease in income taxes is primarily due to the tax benefit resulting from the election of one of our former trs to become a reit in 2010. equity income from unconsolidated joint ventures. during the year ended december 31, 2010, equity income from unconsolidated joint ventures increased $1.3 million to $4.8 million. this increase is primarily due to: (i) the recognition of additional rental revenues during 2010 from a life science tenant in one of our unconsolidated joint ventures that was previously deferred and (ii) a change in the expected useful life of certain intangible assets of one of our unconsolidated joint ventures that resulted in lower equity income due to higher amounts of amortization expense during 2009. these increases were partially offset by hcp ventures ii's conclusion to cease recognizing non-cash rental income (i.e., straight-line rents) from horizon bay effective july 1, 2010, which resulted in lower earnings for, and our share of earnings from, hcp ventures ii during the year ended december 31, 2010. impairments of investments in unconsolidated joint ventures. during the year ended december 31, 2010, we recognized impairments of $71.7 million related to our 35% interest in hcp ventures ii, an unconsolidated joint venture that owns 25 senior housing properties previously leased by horizon bay. no impairments of investments in unconsolidated joint ventures were recognized during the year ended december 31, 2009. discontinued operations. income from discontinued operations for the year ended december 31, 2010 was $23.7 million, compared to $43.5 million for the comparable period in 2009. the decrease is primarily due to a decrease in gains on real estate dispositions of $17.4 million and a decline in operating income from discontinued operations of $2.6 million. during the year ended december 31, 2010, we sold 14 properties for $56 million, compared to 14 properties for $72 million for the year ended december 31, 2009. liquidity and capital resources our principal liquidity needs are to: (i) fund recurring operating expenses, (ii) meet debt service requirements, including $250 million of senior unsecured notes and $67 million of mortgage debt principal payments and maturities in 2012, (iii) fund capital expenditures, including tenant improvements and leasing costs, (iv) fund acquisition and development activities, and (v) make dividend distributions. we believe these needs will be satisfied using cash flows generated by operations and from our various financing activities during the next twelve months. during the year ended december 31, 2011, distributions to shareholders and noncontrolling interest holders exceeded cash flows from operations by approximately $79 million. during 2011, we utilized the funds available under our revolving line of credit facility, which borrowings, among other things, were the sources of cash used to fund the excess of distributions to shareholders and noncontrolling interest holders above cash flows from operations. access to capital markets impacts our cost of capital and ability to refinance maturing indebtedness, as well as our ability to fund future acquisitions and development through the issuance of additional securities or secured debt. credit ratings impact our ability to access capital and directly impact our cost of capital as well. for example, as noted below, our revolving line of credit facility 51 table of contents accrues interest at a rate per annum equal to libor plus a margin that depends upon our debt ratings. we also pay a facility fee on the entire revolving commitment that depends upon our debt ratings. as of january 31, 2011, we had a credit rating of baa2 (stable) from moody's, bbb (positive) from s&amp;p and bbb+ (stable) from fitch on our senior unsecured debt securities, and baa3 (stable) from moody's, bb+ (positive) from s&amp;p and bbb- (stable) from fitch on our preferred equity securities. net cash provided by operating activities was $724 million and $580 million for the years ended december 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. the increase in operating cash flows is primarily the result of the following: (i) the additive impact of our acquisitions in 2010 and 2011, (ii) assets placed in service in 2010 and 2011 and (iii) rent escalations and resets in 2010 and 2011. these increases were partially offset by $227 million in payments relating to the ventas litigation. our cash flows from operations are dependent upon the occupancy level of multi-tenant buildings, rental rates on leases, our tenants' performance on their lease obligations, the level of operating expenses and other factors. net cash used by investing activities was $4.6 billion and $431 million for the years ended december 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. the cash used in investing activities for the year ended december 31, 2011 principally reflects the net effects of: (i) $4.0 billion used for our hcr manorcare acquisition; (ii) $370 million used for investments in loans receivable, (iii) $198 million used for acquisition and development of other real estate, (iv) $136 million used in the acquisition of our partner's 65% interest in hcp ventures ii, (v) $95 million used to purchase a noncontrolling equity interest in the operations of hcr manorcare propco and (vi) $53 million used for leasing costs and tenant and capital improvements, which were partially offset by $304 million received from the repayments from our investments in loans receivable. net cash provided by financing activities was $2.9 billion and $775 million for the years ended december 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. the cash provided by financing activities for the year ended december 31, 2011 consisted primarily of: (i) the issuance of senior unsecured notes of $2.4 billion, (ii) net proceeds of $1.3 billion from the issuances of common stock and exercise of stock options and (iii) net borrowings of $454 million from our revolving line of credit facility. the amount of cash provided by financing activities was partially offset by: (i) payments of common and preferred dividends aggregating $788 million, (ii) repayment of senior unsecured notes of $292 million, (iii) repayment of mortgage debt of $170 million, (iv) debt issuance costs of $44 million and (v) the purchase of noncontrolling interests of $34 million. debt bank line of credit. our revolving line of credit facility provides for an aggregate borrowing capacity of $1.5 billion and matures on march 11, 2015, with a one-year committed extension option. we have the right to increase the commitments under the revolving line of credit facility by an aggregate amount of up to $500 million, subject to customary conditions. borrowings under this revolving line of credit facility accrue interest at a rate per annum equal to libor plus a margin that depends on our debt ratings. we pay a facility fee on the entire revolving commitment that depends upon our debt ratings. based on our debt ratings at december 31, 2011, the margin on the revolving line of credit facility was 1.50% and the facility fee was 0.30%. at december 31, 2011, we had $454 million outstanding under this revolving line of credit facility with a weighted-average effective interest rate of 2.26%. our revolving line of credit facility contains certain financial restrictions and other customary requirements. among other things, these covenants, using terms defined in the agreement, (i) limit the ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to consolidated total asset value to 60%, (ii) limit the ratio of secured debt to consolidated total asset value to 30%, (iii) limit the ratio of unsecured debt to consolidated unencumbered asset value to 60%, (iv) require a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio 52 table of contents of 1.5 times, and (v) require a formula-determined minimum consolidated tangible net worth of $8.0 billion at december 31, 2011. at december 31, 2011, we were in compliance with each of these restrictions and requirements of our revolving line of credit facility. our revolving line of credit facility also contains cross-default provisions to other indebtedness of ours, including in some instances, certain mortgages on our properties. certain mortgages contain default provisions relating to defaults under the leases or operating agreements on the applicable properties by our operators or tenants, including default provisions relating to the bankruptcy filings of such operator or tenant. although we believe that we would be able to secure amendments under the applicable agreements if a default as described above occurs, such a default may result in significantly less favorable borrowing terms than currently available, material delays in the availability of funding or other material adverse consequences. senior unsecured notes. at december 31, 2011, we had senior unsecured notes outstanding with an aggregate principal balance of $5.4 billion. at december 31, 2011, interest rates on the notes ranged from 1.45% to 7.07% with a weighted average effective rate of 5.70% and a weighted average maturity of 6.34 years. discounts and premiums are amortized to interest expense over the term of the related notes. the senior unsecured notes contain certain covenants including limitations on debt, cross-acceleration provisions and other customary terms. at december 31, 2011, we believe we were in compliance with these covenants. mortgage debt. at december 31, 2011, we had $1.8 billion in aggregate principal amount of mortgage debt secured by 138 healthcare facilities (including redevelopment properties) that had a carrying amount of $2.2 billion. at december 31, 2011, interest rates on the mortgage debt range from 1.96% to 8.78% with a weighted average effective interest rate of 6.12% and a weighted average maturity of 4.37 years. mortgage debt generally requires monthly principal and interest payments, is collateralized by certain properties and is generally non-recourse. mortgage debt typically restricts transfer of the encumbered properties, prohibits additional liens, restricts prepayment, requires payment of real estate taxes, requires maintenance of the properties in good condition, requires maintenance of insurance on the properties and includes requirements to obtain lender consent to enter into and terminate material leases. some of the mortgage debt is also cross-collateralized by multiple properties and may require tenants or operators to maintain compliance with the applicable leases or operating agreements of such properties. other debt. at december 31, 2011, we had $88 million of non-interest bearing life care bonds at two of our ccrcs and non-interest bearing occupancy fee deposits at another of our senior housing facility, all of which were payable to certain residents of the facilities (collectively, "life care bonds"). at december 31, 2011, $31 million of the life care bonds are refundable to the residents upon the resident moving out or to their estate upon death, and $57 million of the life care bonds are refundable after the unit is successfully remarketed to a new resident. 53 table of contents debt maturities the following table summarizes our stated debt maturities and scheduled principal repayments at december 31, 2011 (in thousands): year line of credit senior unsecured notes mortgage total (1) 2012 $ $ 250,000 $ 66,761 $ 316,761 2013 550,000 367,374 917,374 2014 487,000 183,758 670,758 2015 454,000 400,000 302,102 1,156,102 2016 900,000 285,586 1,185,586 thereafter 2,850,000 572,687 3,422,687 454,000 5,437,000 1,778,268 7,669,268 (discounts) and premiums, net (20,937 ) (13,697 ) (34,634 ) $ 454,000 $ 5,416,063 $ 1,764,571 $ 7,634,634 (1) excludes $88 million of other debt that represents non-interest bearing life care bonds and occupancy fee deposits at certain of our senior housing facilities, which have no scheduled maturities. derivative financial instruments. we use derivative instruments to mitigate the effects of interest rate fluctuations on specific forecasted transactions as well as recognized obligations or assets. we do not use derivative instruments for speculative or trading purposes. the following table summarizes our outstanding interest rate swap contracts as of december 31, 2011 (dollars in thousands): date entered maturity date hedge designation fixed rate floating rate index notional amount fair value july 2005 (1) july 2020 cash flow 3.82 % bma swap index $ 45,600 $ (7,536 ) november 2008 october 2016 cash flow 5.95 % 1 month libor+1.50% 27,600 (4,176 ) july 2009 july 2013 cash flow 6.13 % 1 month libor+3.65% 14,000 (411 ) (1) represents three interest-rate swap contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $45.6 million. for a more detailed description of our derivative financial instruments, see note 24 to the consolidated financial statements and "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" in item 7a. equity at december 31, 2011, we had 4.0 million shares of 7.25% series e cumulative redeemable preferred stock, 7.8 million shares of 7.10% series f cumulative redeemable preferred stock and 408.6 million shares of common stock outstanding. at december 31, 2011, equity totaled $9.2 billion and our equity securities had a market value of $17.5 billion. as of december 31, 2011, there were a total of 4.2 million downreit units outstanding in five limited liability companies in which we are the managing member. the downreit units are exchangeable for an amount of cash approximating the then-current market value of shares of our common stock or, at our option, shares of our common stock (subject to certain adjustments, such as stock splits and reclassifications). 54 table of contents shelf registration we have a prospectus on file with the sec as part of a registration statement on form s-3, using a shelf registration process that expires in september 2012. under this "shelf" process, we may sell from time to time any combination of the registered securities in one or more offerings. the securities described in the prospectus include common stock, preferred stock and debt securities. each time we sell securities under the shelf registration, we will provide a prospectus supplement that will contain specific information about the terms of the securities being offered and of the offering. we may offer and sell the securities pursuant to this prospectus from time to time in one or more of the following ways: through underwriters or dealers, through agents, directly to purchasers or through a combination of any of these methods of sales. proceeds from the sale of these securities may be used for general corporate purposes, which may include repayment of indebtedness, working capital and potential acquisitions. non-gaap financial measure funds from operations ("ffo") we believe ffo applicable to common shares, diluted ffo applicable to common shares, and basic and diluted ffo per common share are important supplemental measures of operating performance for a real estate investment trust. because the historical cost accounting convention used for real estate assets utilizes straight-line depreciation (except on land), such accounting presentation implies that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. since real estate values instead have historically risen and fallen with market conditions, presentations of operating results for a real estate investment trust that uses historical cost accounting for depreciation could be less informative. the term ffo was designed by the real estate investment trust industry to address this issue. ffo is defined as net income applicable to common shares (computed in accordance with gaap), excluding gains or losses from acquisition and dispositions of depreciable real estate or related interests, impairments of, or related to, depreciable real estate, plus real estate and dfl depreciation and amortization, with adjustments for joint ventures. adjustments for joint ventures are calculated to reflect ffo on the same basis. ffo does not represent cash generated from operating activities in accordance with gaap, is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund cash needs and should not be considered an alternative to net income. our computation of ffo may not be comparable to ffo reported by other real estate investment trusts that do not define the term in accordance with the current national association of real estate investment trusts' ("nareit") definition or that have a different interpretation of the current nareit definition from us. in addition, we present ffo before the impact of litigation settlement and provision charges, other impairments, other impairment recoveries and merger-related items ("ffo as adjusted"). management believes ffo as adjusted is a useful alternative measurement. this measure is a modification of the nareit definition of ffo and should not be used as an alternative to net income. nareit recently issued updated reporting guidance that directs companies, for their computation of nareit ffo, to exclude impairments of depreciable real estate and other assets when write-downs are driven by measurable decreases in the fair value of real estate holdings (e.g., investments in joint ventures that primarily hold real estate). previously, the company's calculation of ffo (consistent with nareit's previous guidance) did not exclude impairments of, or related to, depreciable real estate. consistent with this current nareit reporting guidance, the company has restated its 2010 and 2009 ffo amounts. details of certain items that affect comparability are discussed in the financials results summary of our financial results for the year ended december 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. the following is a 55 table of contents reconciliation from net income applicable to common shares, the most direct comparable financial measure calculated and presented with gaap, to ffo (dollars and shares in thousands): year ended december 31, 2011 2010 2009 net income applicable to common shares $ 515,302 $ 307,498 $ 109,069 depreciation and amortization of real estate, in-place lease and other intangibles: continuing operations 356,834 311,218 315,947 discontinued operations 561 2,229 4,178 dfl depreciation 8,840 gain on sales of real estate (3,107 ) (19,925 ) (37,321 ) gain upon consolidation of joint venture (7,769 ) impairments of real estate and related intangibles 8,118 impairments of interests in unconsolidated joint venture 71,693 equity income from unconsolidated joint ventures (46,750 ) (4,770 ) (3,511 ) ffo from unconsolidated joint ventures 56,887 25,288 26,023 noncontrolling interests' and participating securities' share in earnings 18,062 15,767 15,952 noncontrolling interests' and participating securities' share in ffo (20,953 ) (18,361 ) (17,873 ) ffo applicable to common shares $ 877,907 $ 690,637 $ 420,582 distributions on dilutive convertible units 6,916 11,847 diluted ffo applicable to common shares $ 884,823 $ 702,484 $ 420,582 diluted ffo per common share $ 2.19 $ 2.25 $ 1.53 weighted average shares used to calculate diluted ffo per common share 403,864 312,797 274,631 diluted earnings per common share $ 1.29 $ 1.00 $ 0.40 depreciation and amortization of real estate, in-place lease and other intangibles 0.89 1.02 1.17 dfl depreciation 0.02 gain on sales of real estate and upon consolidation of joint venture (0.03 ) (0.06 ) (0.14 ) impairments of real estate, related intangibles and interests in unconsolidated joint ventures 0.23 0.03 joint venture and participating securities ffo adjustments 0.02 0.06 0.07 diluted ffo per common share $ 2.19 $ 2.25 $ 1.53 56 table of contents year ended december 31, 2011 2010 2009 impact of adjustments to ffo: litigation settlement and provision charges (1) $ 125,000 $ $ 101,973 other impairments (recoveries) (2) 15,400 (11,900 ) 67,396 merger-related items (3) 26,596 4,339 $ 166,996 $ (7,561 ) $ 169,369 ffo as adjusted applicable to common shares $ 1,044,903 $ 683,076 $ 589,951 distributions on dilutive convertible units 11,646 12,089 6,088 diluted ffo as adjusted $ 1,056,549 $ 695,165 $ 596,039 diluted ffo as adjusted per common share $ 2.69 $ 2.23 $ 2.14 weighted average shares used to calculate diluted ffo as adjusted per common share (4) 393,237 311,285 278,134 (1) the litigation settlement charge during the year ended december 31, 2011 relates to the ventas settlement. the litigation provision during the year ended december 31, 2009 relates to the ventas compensatory damages of approximately $102 million awarded by the jury on september 4, 2009. (2) the following impairments, net of recoveries had an impact on ffo: the impairment charge during the year ended december 31, 2011 relates to our senior secured loan to cirrus health. recoveries for the year ended december 31, 2010 relate to portions of previous impairment charges related to investments in three direct financing leases (non-depreciable due to lessee purchase option) and a participation interest in a senior construction loan related to erickson. the year ended december 31, 2009 includes impairments of $67.4 million as a result of (i) an aggregate $63.1 million provision related to dfl and loan losses (impairment charges) related to the bankruptcy of erickson and (ii) $4.3 million related to a senior secured loan to cirrus health as a result of an expected restructuring of terms to the loan. (3) merger-related items for the year ended december 31, 2011 are attributable to the hcr manorcare acquisition (incurred from january 1st through april 6th 2011), which include the following: (i) $26.8 million of direct transaction costs, (ii) $23.9 million of interest expense associated with the $2.4 billion senior unsecured notes issued on january 24, 2011, proceeds from which were obtained to prefund the hcr manorcare acquisition, partially offset by (iii) $24.1 million of income related to gains upon the reinvestment of the our debt investment in hcr manorcare and other miscellaneous items. merger-related items for 2010 primarily include professional fees associated with our hcr manorcare acquisition. (4) our weighted average shares used to calculate diluted ffo as adjusted eliminate the impact of 46 million shares of common stock from our december 2010 offering and 30 million shares from our march 2011 common stock offering (excludes 4.5 million shares sold to the underwriters upon exercise of their option to purchase additional shares), which issuances increased our weighted average shares by 12.9 million and 1.5 million for the years ended december 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. proceeds from these offerings were used to fund a portion of the cash consideration for the hcr manorcare acquisition. off-balance sheet arrangements we own interests in certain unconsolidated joint ventures as described under note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. except in limited circumstances, our risk of loss is limited to our investment in the joint venture and any outstanding loans receivable. in addition, we have certain properties which serve as collateral for debt that is owed by a previous owner of certain of our facilities, as described under note 12 to the consolidated financial statements included. our risk of loss for these properties is limited to the outstanding debt balance plus penalties, if any. we have no other material off-balance sheet arrangements that we expect would materially affect our liquidity and capital resources except those described below under "contractual obligations." 57 table of contents contractual obligations the following table summarizes our material contractual payment obligations and commitments at december 31, 2011 (in thousands): total (1) less than one year 2013-2014 2015-2016 more than five years bank line of credit $ 454,000 $ $ $ 454,000 $ senior unsecured notes 5,437,000 250,000 1,037,000 1,300,000 2,850,000 mortgage debt 1,778,268 66,761 551,132 587,688 572,687 construction loan commitments (2) 90,414 70,975 11,563 7,876 development commitments (3) 25,136 25,136 ground and other operating leases 202,712 5,455 10,472 8,355 178,430 interest (4) 2,587,731 405,478 709,993 536,675 935,585 total $ 10,575,261 $ 823,805 $ 2,320,160 $ 2,894,594 $ 4,536,702 (1) excludes $88 million of other debt that represents non-interest bearing life care bonds and occupancy fee deposits at certain of our senior housing facilities, which have no scheduled maturities. (2) represents commitments to finance development projects and related working capital financings. (3) represents construction and other commitments for developments in progress. (4) interest on variable-rate debt is calculated using rates in effect at december 31, 2011. inflation our leases often provide for either fixed increases in base rents or indexed escalators, based on the consumer price index or other measures, and/or additional rent based on increases in the tenants' operating revenues. substantially all of our mob leases require the tenant to pay a share of property operating costs such as real estate taxes, insurance and utilities. substantially all of our senior housing, life science, post-acute/skilled nursing and hospital leases require the operator or tenant to pay all of the property operating costs or reimburse us for all such costs. we believe that inflationary increases in expenses will be offset, in part, by the operator or tenant expense reimbursements and contractual rent increases described above. recent accounting pronouncements see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for the impact of new accounting standards. there were no accounting pronouncements that were issued, but not yet adopted by us, that we believe will materially impact our consolidated financial statements. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk. at december 31, 2011, we were exposed to market risks related to fluctuations in interest rates on the following: (i) $454 million of variable-rate line of credit borrowings, (ii) $25 million of variable-rate senior unsecured notes and (iii) $24 million of variable-rate mortgage debt payable (excluding $88 million of variable-rate mortgage notes that have been hedged through interest-rate swap contracts) that are partially offset by properties with a gross value of $83 million that are subject to leases where the payments fluctuate with changes in libor. interest rate fluctuations will generally not affect our future earnings or cash flows on our fixed rate debt and loans receivable unless such instruments mature or are otherwise terminated. however, interest rate changes will affect the fair value of our fixed rate instruments. conversely, changes in interest rates on variable rate debt and investments would change our future earnings and cash flows, 58 table of contents but not significantly affect the fair value of those instruments. assuming a one percentage point increase in the interest rate related to the variable-rate debt and variable-rate investments, and assuming no other changes in the outstanding balance as of december 31, 2011, annual net interest expense would increase by approximately $4.2 million or $0.01 per common share on a diluted basis. we use derivative financial instruments in the normal course of business to mitigate interest rate risk. we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. derivatives are recorded on the consolidated balance sheet at their fair value. see note 24 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. to illustrate the effect of movements in the interest rate markets, we performed a market sensitivity analysis on our hedging instruments. we applied various basis point spreads to the underlying interest rate curves of the derivative portfolio in order to determine the instruments' change in fair value. assuming a one percentage point change in the underlying interest rate curve, the estimated change in fair value of each of the underlying derivative instruments would not exceed $3.8 million. see note 24 to the consolidated financial statements for additional analysis details. market risk. we have investments in marketable equity securities classified as available-for-sale. gains and losses on these securities are recognized in income when realized and losses are recognized when an other-than-temporary decline in value is identified. an initial indicator of other-than-temporary decline in value for marketable equity securities is based on the severity of the decline in market value below the cost basis for an extended period of time. we consider a variety of factors in evaluating an other-than-temporary decline in value, such as: the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been less than our current cost basis; the issuer's financial condition, capital strength and near-term prospects; any recent events specific to that issuer and economic conditions of its industry; and our investment horizon in relationship to an anticipated near-term recovery in the market value, if any. at december 31, 2011, the fair value and current cost basis of marketable equity securities were both $17.1 million. the principal amount and the average interest rates for our loans receivable and debt categorized by maturity dates is presented in the table below. the fair value for our senior unsecured notes payable is based on prevailing market prices. the fair value estimates for loans receivable and mortgage debt payable are based on discounting future cash flows utilizing current rates for loans and debt of the same type and remaining maturity. maturity 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 thereafter total fair value (dollars in thousands) assets: loans receivable $ 75,650 (1) $ 8,223 $ 1,523 $ 15,640 $ 9,814 $ 443 $ 111,293 $ 111,073 weighted average interest rate % 11.50 % 11.00 % 8.00 % 8.25 % 8.25 % 12.4 % liabilities (2) : variable-rate debt: bank line of credit $ $ $ $ 454,000 $ $ $ 454,000 $ 454,000 weighted average interest rate % % % 2.26 % % % 2.26 % senior unsecured notes payable $ $ $ 25,000 $ $ $ $ 25,000 $ 24,163 weighted average interest rate % % 1.51 % % % % 1.51 % mortgage debt payable $ 8,534 $ 6,430 $ 455 $ 8,500 $ $ $ 23,919 $ 21,640 weighted average interest rate 1.96 % 2.07 % % 1.21 % % % 1.69 % fixed-rate debt: senior unsecured notes payable $ 250,000 $ 550,000 $ 462,000 $ 400,000 $ 900,000 $ 2,850,000 $ 5,412,000 $ 5,795,141 weighted average interest rate 6.67 % 5.81 % 3.37 % 6.64 % 5.07 % 6.08 % 5.72 % mortgage debt payable $ 58,227 $ 360,944 $ 183,303 $ 293,602 $ 285,586 $ 572,687 $ 1,754,349 $ 1,848,430 weighted average interest rate 5.91 % 6.11 % 5.74 % 6.17 % 6.92 % 6.02 % 6.18 % (1) effective january 1, 2011, a senior secured loan to cirrus was placed on non-accrual status. for additional information regarding the senior secured loan to cirrus see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. (2) excludes $88 million of other debt that represents non-interest bearing life care bonds and occupancy fee deposits at certain of our senior housing facilities, which have no scheduled maturities. 59 table of contentsrisk factors 13 healthcare segments senior housing. at december 31, 2012, we had interests in 441 senior housing facilities, 21 of which are in a ridea structure. excluding ridea properties, all of our senior housing facilities are leased to single tenants under triple-net lease structures. senior housing facilities include assisted living facilities ("alfs"), independent living facilities ("ilfs") and continuing care retirement communities ("ccrcs"), which cater to different segments of the elderly population based upon their personal needs. services provided by our operators or tenants in these facilities are primarily paid for by the residents directly or through private insurance and are less reliant on government reimbursement programs such as medicaid and medicare. our senior housing property types are further described below: assisted living facilities. alfs are licensed care facilities that provide personal care services, support and housing for those who need help with activities of daily living ("adl"), such as bathing, eating and dressing, yet require limited medical care. the programs and services may include transportation, social activities, exercise and fitness programs, beauty or barber shop access, hobby and craft activities, community excursions, meals in a dining room setting and other activities sought by residents. these facilities are often in apartment-like buildings with private residences ranging from single rooms to large apartments. certain alfs may offer higher levels of personal assistance for residents requiring memory care as a result of alzheimer's disease or other forms of dementia. levels of personal assistance are based in part on local regulations. at december 31, 2012, we had interests in 363 alfs. independent living facilities. ilfs are designed to meet the needs of seniors who choose to live in an environment surrounded by their peers with services such as housekeeping, meals and activities. these residents generally do not need assistance with adl. however, in some of our 5 table of contents facilities, residents have the option to contract for these services. at december 31, 2012, we had interests in 64 ilfs. continuing care retirement communities. ccrcs provide housing and health-related services under long-term contracts. this alternative is appealing to residents as it eliminates the need for relocating when health and medical needs change, thus allowing residents to "age in place." some ccrcs require a substantial entry or buy-in fee and most also charge monthly maintenance fees in exchange for a living unit, meals and some health services. ccrcs typically require the individual to be in relatively good health and independent upon entry. at december 31, 2012, we had interests in 14 ccrcs. during the fourth quarter of 2012, we acquired 129 senior housing communities for $1.7 billion, from a joint venture between emeritus corporation and blackstone real estate partners vi, an affiliate of blackstone (the "blackstone jv"). located in 29 states, the portfolio encompasses 10,077 units representing a diversified care mix of 61% assisted living, 25% independent living, 13% memory care and 1% skilled nursing. emeritus continues to operate the communities pursuant to a new triple-net, master lease for the 129 properties guaranteed by emeritus. for a more detailed description of the acquisition see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. our senior housing segment accounted for approximately 33%, 30% and 30% of total revenues for the years ended december 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. the following table provides information about our senior housing operator concentration for the year ended december 31, 2012: operators percentage of segment revenues percentage of total revenues hcr manorcare, inc. ("hcr manorcare") (1) 11 30 emeritus corporation ("emeritus") (2) 23 8 sunrise senior living inc. ("sunrise") (3) 15 5 brookdale senior living, inc. ("brookdale") (4) 14 5 (1) percentage of total revenues includes revenues earned from both our senior housing and post-acute/skilled nursing facilities leased to hcr manorcare. (2) percentage of total revenues from emeritus includes partial results for blackstone jv acquisition. assuming that full-year results were included for this acquisition in our 2012 revenues, the percentage of segment revenues and total revenues would be 36% and 12%, respectively. (3) certain of our properties are leased to tenants who have entered into management contracts with sunrise to operate the respective property on their behalf. to determine our concentration of revenues generated from properties operated by sunrise, we aggregate revenue from these tenants with revenue generated from the two properties that are leased directly to sunrise. (4) brookdale percentages do not include $143 million of senior housing revenues, related to 21 senior housing facilities that brookdale operates on our behalf under a ridea structure. assuming that these revenues were attributable to brookdale, the percentage of combined segment and total revenues associated brookdale would be 36% and 12% respectively. post-acute/skilled nursing. at december 31, 2012, we had interests in 312 post-acute/skilled nursing facilities ("snfs"). snfs offer restorative, rehabilitative and custodial nursing care for people not requiring the more extensive and sophisticated treatment available at hospitals. ancillary revenues and revenues from sub-acute care services are derived from providing services to residents beyond room and board and include occupational, physical, speech, respiratory and intravenous therapy, wound care, oncology treatment, brain injury care and orthopedic therapy as well as sales of pharmaceutical products and other services. certain snfs provide some of the foregoing services on an out-patient basis. post-acute/skilled nursing services provided by our operators and tenants in these facilities are primarily paid for either by private sources or through the medicare and medicaid programs. all of our snfs are leased to single tenants under triple-net lease structures. 6 table of contents our post-acute/skilled nursing segment accounted for approximately 29%, 29% and 13% of total revenues for the years ended december 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. the following table provides information about our post-acute/skilled nursing operator/tenant concentration for the year ended december 31, 2012: operators/tenants and borrowers percentage of segment revenues percentage of total revenues hcr manorcare (1) 90 30 (1) percentage of total revenues includes revenues earned from both senior housing and post-acute/skilled nursing facilities leased to hcr manorcare. life science. at december 31, 2012, we had interests in 113 life science properties, including four facilities owned by our investment management platform. these properties contain laboratory and office space primarily for biotechnology, medical device and pharmaceutical companies, scientific research institutions, government agencies and other organizations involved in the life science industry. while these properties contain similar characteristics to commercial office buildings, they generally contain more advanced electrical, mechanical, and heating, ventilating, and air conditioning ("hvac") systems. the facilities generally have specialty equipment including emergency generators, fume hoods, lab bench tops and related amenities. in many instances, life science tenants make significant investments to improve their leased space, in addition to landlord improvements, to accommodate biology, chemistry or medical device research initiatives. life science properties are primarily configured in business park or campus settings and include multiple buildings. the business park and campus settings allow us the opportunity to provide flexible, contiguous/adjacent expansion to accommodate the growth of existing tenants. our properties are located in well-established geographical markets known for scientific research, including san francisco, san diego and salt lake city. at december 31, 2012, 96% of our life science leases (based on leased square feet) were under triple-net structures. our life science segment accounted for approximately 15%, 17% and 22% of total revenues for the years ended december 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. the following table provides information about our life science tenant concentration for the year ended december 31, 2012: tenants percentage of segment revenues percentage of total revenues genentech, inc. 19 3 amgen, inc. 18 3 medical office. at december 31, 2012, we had interests in 273 medical office buildings ("mobs"), including 66 facilities owned by our investment management platform. these facilities typically contain physicians' offices and examination rooms, and may also include pharmacies, hospital ancillary service space and outpatient services such as diagnostic centers, rehabilitation clinics and day-surgery operating rooms. while these facilities are similar to commercial office buildings, they require additional plumbing, electrical and mechanical systems to accommodate multiple exam rooms that may require sinks in every room, and special equipment such as x-ray machines. in addition, mobs are often built to accommodate higher structural loads for certain equipment and may contain "vaults" or other specialized construction. our mobs are typically multi-tenant properties leased to healthcare providers (hospitals and physician practices), with approximately 77% of our mobs, based on square feet, located on hospital campuses and 94% are affiliated with hospital systems. at december 31, 2012, 47% of our medical office leases (based on leased square feet) were under triple-net structures. 7 table of contents our medical office segment accounted for approximately 18%, 19% and 25% of total revenues for the years ended december 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. during the year ended december 31, 2012, hca, inc. ("hca"), as our tenant, contributed 14% of our medical office segment revenues. our investment management platform represents the following unconsolidated joint ventures: (i) hcp ventures iii, llc, and hcp ventures iv, llc, which consists of mob portfolios, and (ii) the hcp life science ventures. for a more detailed description of these unconsolidated joint ventures, see note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. hospital. at december 31, 2012, we had interests in 21 hospitals, including four facilities owned by our investment management platform. services provided by our operators and tenants in these facilities are paid for by private sources, third-party payors (e.g., insurance and health maintenance organizations or "hmos"), or through the medicare and medicaid programs. our hospital property types include acute care, long-term acute care, specialty and rehabilitation hospitals. our hospitals are generally leased to single tenants or operators under triple-net lease structures. our hospital segment accounted for approximately 5%, 5% and 10% of total revenues for the years ended december 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. the following table provides information about our hospital operator/tenant concentration for the year ended december 31, 2012: operators/tenants and borrowers percentage of segment revenues percentage of total revenues hca (1) 29 4 tenet healthcare corporation 27 1 (1) percentage of total revenues from hca includes revenues earned from both our medical office and hospital segments. investment products properties under lease. we primarily generate revenue by leasing properties under long-term leases. most of our rents and other earned income from leases are received under triple-net leases or leases that provide for a substantial recovery of operating expenses. however, some of our mobs and life science facility rents are structured under gross or modified gross leases. accordingly, for such gross or modified gross leases, we incur certain property operating expenses, such as real estate taxes, repairs and maintenance, property management fees, utilities and insurance. our ability to grow income from properties under lease depends, in part, on our ability to (i) increase rental income and other earned income from leases by increasing rental rates and occupancy levels, (ii) maximize tenant recoveries and (iii) control non-recoverable operating expenses. most of our leases include contractual annual base rent escalation clauses that are either predetermined fixed increases and/or are a function of an inflation index. debt investments. our mezzanine loans are generally secured by a pledge of ownership interests of an entity or entities, which directly or indirectly own properties, and are subordinate to more senior debt, including mortgages and more senior mezzanine loans. borrowers of our interests in mortgage and construction loans are typically healthcare providers and healthcare real estate generally secures these loans. developments and redevelopments. we generally commit to development projects that are at least 50% pre-leased or when we believe that market conditions will support speculative construction. we work closely with our local real estate service providers, including brokerage, property management, project management and construction management companies to assist us in evaluating development proposals and completing developments. our development and redevelopment investments are primarily in our life science and medical office segments. redevelopments are properties that require 8 table of contents significant capital expenditures (generally more than 25% of acquisition cost or existing basis) to update, achieve stabilization or to change the primary use of the properties. investment management. we co-invest in real estate properties with institutional investors through joint ventures structured as partnerships or limited liability companies. we target institutional investors with long-term investment horizons who seek to benefit from our expertise in healthcare real estate. predominantly, we retain noncontrolling interests in the joint ventures ranging from 20% to 30% and serve as the managing member. these ventures generally allow us to earn acquisition and asset management fees, and have the potential for promoted interests or incentive distributions based on performance of the joint venture. operating properties ("ridea"). we may enter into contracts with healthcare operators to manage communities that are placed in a structure permitted by the housing and economic recovery act of 2008 (commonly referred to as "ridea"). under the provisions of ridea, a reit may lease "qualified healthcare properties" on an arm's length basis to a taxable reit subsidiary ("trs") if the property is operated on behalf of such subsidiary by a person who qualifies as an "eligible independent contractor." we view ridea as a structure primarily to be used on properties that present attractive valuation entry points and to drive growth by: (i) transitioning the asset to a new operator that can bring scale, operating efficiencies, and/or ancillary services; or (ii) investing capital to reposition the asset. portfolio summary at december 31, 2012, we managed $21.3 billion of investments in our owned portfolio and investment management platform. at december 31, 2012, we also owned $540 million of assets under development, including redevelopment, and land held for future development. owned portfolio as of december 31, 2012, our leases and operating properties and debt investments in our owned portfolio consisted of the following (square feet and dollars in thousands): year ended december 31, 2012 investment (3) number of properties (1) total investment interest income (5) segment capacity (2) properties (1) debt noi (4) senior housing 441 45,669 units $ 7,543,163 $ 123,642 $ 7,666,805 $ 531,419 $ 3,503 post-acute/skilled 312 41,538 beds 5,669,469 328,905 5,998,374 538,856 19,993 life science 109 7,002 sq. ft. 3,362,298 3,362,298 236,491 medical office 207 14,274 sq. ft. 2,613,254 2,613,254 202,547 hospital 17 2,410 beds 650,937 46,292 (6) 697,229 80,980 1,040 total 1,086 $ 19,839,121 $ 498,839 $ 20,337,960 $ 1,590,293 $ 24,536 (1) represents 1,065 properties under lease with an investment value of $19.1 billion and 21 operating properties under a ridea structure with an investment value of $759 million. (2) senior housing facilities are measured in units (e.g., studio, one or two bedroom units). life science facilities and medical office buildings are measured in square feet. snfs and hospitals are measured in licensed bed count. (3) property investments represent: (i) the carrying amount of real estate and intangibles, after adding back accumulated depreciation and amortization; and (ii) the carrying amount of direct financing leases. debt investment represents the carrying amount of mezzanine, mortgage and other secured loan investments. (4) net operating income from continuing operations ("noi") is a non-gaap supplemental financial measure used to evaluate the operating performance of real estate properties. for the reconciliation of noi to net income for 2012, refer to note 14 in our consolidated financial statements. 9 table of contents (5) interest income represents interest earned from our debt investments. (6) includes a senior secured loan to delphis operations, l.p. ("delphis") that was placed on non-accrual status effective january 1, 2011 with a carrying value of $31 million at december 31, 2012. for a more detailed description of the senior secured loan to delphis, see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on our business segments. developments and redevelopments at december 31, 2012, in addition to our investments in properties under lease and debt investments, we have an aggregate investment of $540 million in assets under development, including redevelopment, and land held for future development, primarily in our life science and medical office segments. investment management platform as of december 31, 2012, our investment management platform consisted of the following properties under lease (square feet and dollars in thousands): segment number of properties capacity (1) hcp's ownership interest joint venture investment (2) total revenues total operating expenses medical office (3) 66 3,389 sq. ft. 20 - 30% $ 729,831 $ 72,421 $ 30,870 life science 4 278 sq. ft. 50 - 63% 144,489 10,881 1,513 hospital 4 149 beds 20% 81,383 4,001 963 total 74 $ 955,703 $ 87,303 $ 33,346 (1) life science facilities and medical office buildings are measured in square feet. (2) represents the joint ventures' carrying amount of real estate and intangibles, after adding back accumulated depreciation and amortization. (3) during 2010, one mob was placed into redevelopment; its statistics are not included in the medical office information. employees of hcp at december 31, 2012, we had 149 full-time employees, none of whom are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. government regulation, licensing and enforcement overview our tenants and operators are typically subject to extensive and complex federal, state and local healthcare laws and regulations relating to fraud and abuse practices, government reimbursement, licensure and certificate of need and similar laws governing the operation of healthcare facilities, and we expect that the healthcare industry, in general, will continue to face increased regulation and pressure in the areas of fraud, waste and abuse, cost control, healthcare management and provision of services, among others. these regulations are wide-ranging and can subject our tenants and operators to civil, criminal and administrative sanctions. affected tenants and operators may find it increasingly difficult to comply with this complex and evolving regulatory environment because of a relative lack of guidance in many areas as certain of our healthcare properties are subject to oversight from several government agencies and the laws may vary from one jurisdiction to another. changes in laws and regulations and reimbursement enforcement activity and regulatory non-compliance by our tenants and 10 table of contents operators can all have a significant effect on their operations and financial condition, which in turn may adversely impact us, as detailed below and set forth under "risk factors" in item 1a. based on information primarily provided by our tenants and operators, excluding our medical office segment, at december 31, 2012 we estimate that approximately 18% and 14% of the annualized base rental payments received from our tenants and operators were dependent on medicare and medicaid reimbursement, respectively. the following is a discussion of certain laws and regulations generally applicable to our operators, and in certain cases, to us. fraud and abuse enforcement there are various extremely complex federal and state laws and regulations governing healthcare providers' relationships and arrangements and prohibiting fraudulent and abusive practices by such providers. these laws include (i) federal and state false claims acts, which, among other things, prohibit providers from filing false claims or making false statements to receive payment from medicare, medicaid or other federal or state healthcare programs, (ii) federal and state anti-kickback and fee-splitting statutes, including the medicare and medicaid anti-kickback statute, which prohibit the payment or receipt of remuneration to induce referrals or recommendations of healthcare items or services, (iii) federal and state physician self-referral laws (commonly referred to as the "stark law"), which generally prohibit referrals by physicians to entities with which the physician or an immediate family member has a financial relationship, (iv) the federal civil monetary penalties law, which prohibits, among other things, the knowing presentation of a false or fraudulent claim for certain healthcare services and (v) federal and state privacy laws, including the privacy and security rules contained in the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, which provide for the privacy and security of personal health information. violations of healthcare fraud and abuse laws carry civil, criminal and administrative sanctions, including punitive sanctions, monetary penalties, imprisonment, denial of medicare and medicaid reimbursement and potential exclusion from medicare, medicaid or other federal or state healthcare programs. these laws are enforced by a variety of federal, state and local agencies and can also be enforced by private litigants through, among other things, federal and state false claims acts, which allow private litigants to bring qui tam or "whistleblower" actions. many of our operators and tenants are subject to these laws, and some of them may in the future become the subject of governmental enforcement actions if they fail to comply with applicable laws. reimbursement sources of revenue for many of our tenants and operators include, among other sources, governmental healthcare programs, such as the federal medicare program and state medicaid programs, and non-governmental payors, such as insurance carriers and hmos. as federal and state governments focus on healthcare reform initiatives, and as the federal government and many states face significant budget deficits, efforts to reduce costs by these payors will likely continue, which may result in reduced or slower growth in reimbursement for certain services provided by some of our tenants and operators. healthcare licensure and certificate of need certain healthcare facilities in our portfolio are subject to extensive federal, state and local licensure, certification and inspection laws and regulations. in addition, various licenses and permits are required to dispense narcotics, operate pharmacies, handle radioactive materials and operate equipment. many states require certain healthcare providers to obtain a certificate of need, which requires prior approval for the construction, expansion and closure of certain healthcare facilities. the 11 table of contents approval process related to state certificate of need laws may impact some of our tenants' and operators' abilities to expand or change their businesses. life science facilities while certain of our life science tenants include some well-established companies, other such tenants are less established and, in some cases, may not yet have a product approved by the food and drug administration or other regulatory authorities for commercial sale. creating a new pharmaceutical product or medical device requires substantial investments of time and money, in part, because of the extensive regulation of the healthcare industry; it also entails considerable risk of failure in demonstrating that the product is safe and effective and in gaining regulatory approval and market acceptance. senior housing entrance fee communities certain of the senior housing facilities mortgaged to or owned by us are operated as entrance fee communities. generally, an entrance fee is an upfront fee or consideration paid by a resident, a portion of which may be refundable, in exchange for some form of long-term benefit. some of the entrance fee communities are subject to significant state regulatory oversight, including, for example, oversight of each facility's financial condition, establishment and monitoring of reserve requirements and other financial restrictions, the right of residents to cancel their contracts within a specified period of time, lien rights in favor of the residents, restrictions on change of ownership and similar matters. americans with disabilities act (the "ada") our properties must comply with the ada and any similar state or local laws to the extent that such properties are "public accommodations" as defined in those statutes. the ada may require removal of barriers to access by persons with disabilities in certain public areas of our properties where such removal is readily achievable. to date, we have not received any notices of noncompliance with the ada that have caused us to incur substantial capital expenditures to address ada concerns. should barriers to access by persons with disabilities be discovered at any of our properties, we may be directly or indirectly responsible for additional costs that may be required to make facilities ada-compliant. noncompliance with the ada could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. the obligation to make readily achievable accommodations pursuant to the ada is an ongoing one, and we continue to assess our properties and make modifications as appropriate in this respect. environmental matters a wide variety of federal, state and local environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations affect healthcare facility operations. these complex federal and state statutes, and their enforcement, involve a myriad of regulations, many of which involve strict liability on the part of the potential offender. some of these federal and state statutes may directly impact us. under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner of real property or a secured lender, such as us, may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances at, under or disposed of in connection with such property, as well as other potential costs relating to hazardous or toxic substances (including government fines and damages for injuries to persons and adjacent property). the cost of any required remediation, removal, fines or personal or property damages and the owner's or secured lender's liability therefore could exceed or impair the value of the property, and/or the assets of the owner or secured lender. in addition, the presence of such substances, or the failure to properly dispose of or remediate such substances, may adversely affect the owner's ability to sell or rent such property or to borrow using such property as collateral which, in turn, could reduce our revenues. for a description of the risks associated with environmental matters, see "risk factors" in item 1a of this report. 12 table of contents item 1a. risk factors the section below discusses the most significant risk factors that may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. as set forth below, we believe that the risks facing our company generally fall into the following categories: risks related to our business; and risks related to tax matters, including reit-related risks. risks related to our business volatility or disruption in the financial markets may impair our ability to raise capital, obtain new financing or refinance existing obligations and fund real estate and development activities. the global financial markets recently have experienced pervasive and fundamental disruptions. while these conditions have stabilized since the first quarter of 2009 and the capital markets generally have shown signs of improvement, the sustainability of an economic recovery is uncertain and additional levels of market disruption and volatility could materially adversely impact our ability to raise capital, obtain new financing or refinance our existing obligations as they mature and fund real estate and development activities. market volatility could also lead to significant uncertainty in the valuation of our investments and those of our joint ventures, that may result in a substantial decrease in the value of our properties and those of our joint ventures. as a result, we may not be able to recover the carrying amount of such investments and the associated goodwill, if any, which may require us to recognize impairment charges in earnings. we rely on external sources of capital to fund future capital needs and limitations on our access to such capital could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to meet commitments as they become due or make future investments necessary to grow our business. we may not be able to fund all future capital needs from cash retained from operations. if we are unable to obtain enough internal capital, we may need to rely on external sources of capital (including debt and equity financing) to fulfill our capital requirements. if we cannot access these external sources of capital, we may not be able to make the investments needed to grow our business and to meet our obligations and commitments as they mature. our access to capital depends upon a number of factors, some of which we have little or no control over, including but not limited to: general availability of credit and market conditions, including rising interest rates and increased borrowing cost; the market price of the shares of our equity securities and the credit ratings of our debt and preferred securities; the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions; our degree of financial leverage and operational flexibility; the financial integrity of our lenders, which might impair their ability to meet their commitments to us or their willingness to make additional loans to us, and our inability to replace the financing commitment of any such lender on favorable terms, or at all; the stability in the market value of our properties; 13 table of contents the financial performance and general market perception of our operators, tenants and borrowers; changes in the credit ratings on u.s. government debt securities or default or delay in payment by the united states of its obligations; and issues facing the healthcare industry, including, but not limited to, healthcare reform and changes in government reimbursement policies. if our access to capital is limited by these factors or other factors, it could have a material adverse impact on our ability to fund operations, refinance our debt obligations, fund dividend payments, acquire properties and development activities. adverse changes in our credit ratings could impair our ability to obtain additional debt and equity financing on favorable terms, if at all, and negatively impact the market price of our securities, including our common stock. the credit ratings of our senior unsecured debt are based on our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position and other factors employed by the credit rating agencies in their rating analyses of us. our credit ratings can affect the amount and type of capital we can access, as well as the terms of any financings we may obtain. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings and in the event that our current credit ratings deteriorate, we would likely incur higher borrowing costs and it may be more difficult or expensive to obtain additional financing or refinance existing obligations and commitments. also, a downgrade in our credit ratings would trigger additional costs or other potentially negative consequences under our current and future credit facilities and debt instruments. our level of indebtedness may increase and materially adversely affect our future operations. our outstanding indebtedness as of december 31, 2012 was approximately $8.7 billion. we may incur additional indebtedness in the future, including in connection with the development or acquisition of assets, which may be substantial. any significant additional indebtedness could negatively affect the credit ratings of our debt and require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to interest and principal payments due on our indebtedness. greater demands on our cash resources may reduce funds available to us to pay dividends, conduct development activities, make capital expenditures and acquisitions, or carry out other aspects of our business strategy. increased indebtedness can also limit our ability to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions, make us more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions and create competitive disadvantages for us compared to other companies with relatively lower debt levels. increased future debt service obligations may limit our operational flexibility, including our ability to finance or refinance our properties, contribute properties to joint ventures or sell properties as needed. covenants related to our indebtedness limit our operational flexibility and breaches of these covenants could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. our unsecured credit facilities, unsecured debt securities and secured debt and other indebtedness that we may incur in the future, require or will require us to comply with a number of customary financial and other covenants, such as maintaining certain levels of debt service coverage and leverage ratio, tangible net worth requirements and maintaining reit status. our continued ability to incur additional debt and to conduct business in general is subject to compliance with these financial and other covenants, which limit our operational flexibility. for example, mortgages on our properties contain customary covenants such as those that limit or restrict our ability, without the consent of the lender, to further encumber or sell the applicable properties, or to replace the applicable tenant or operator. breaches of certain covenants may result in defaults under the mortgages on our properties 14 table of contents and cross-defaults under certain of our other indebtedness, even if we satisfy our payment obligations to the respective obligee. additionally, defaults under the leases or operating agreements related to mortgaged properties, including defaults associated with the bankruptcy of the applicable tenant or operator, may result in a default under the underlying mortgage and cross-defaults under certain of our other indebtedness. covenants that limit our operational flexibility as well as defaults under our debt instruments could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. an increase in interest rates could increase interest cost on new debt, and could materially adversely impact our ability to refinance existing debt, sell assets and limit our acquisition, investment and development activities. if interest rates increase, so could our interest costs for any new debt. this increased cost could make the financing of any acquisition and development activity more costly. rising interest rates could limit our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures, or cause us to pay higher interest rates upon refinancing and increase interest expense on refinanced indebtedness. in addition, an increase in interest rates could decrease the amount third parties are willing to pay for our assets, thereby limiting our ability to reposition our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. we depend on a limited number of operators and tenants that account for a large percentage of our revenues. during the year ended december 31, 2012, approximately 48% of our revenues were generated by our leasing or financial arrangements with the following four companies: hcr manorcare (30%); emeritus (8%); sunrise (5%); and brookdale (5%). the failure, inability or unwillingness of these operators or tenants to meet their obligations to us could materially reduce our cash flow as well as our results of operations, which could in turn reduce the amount of dividends we pay, cause our stock price to decline and have other material adverse effects on our business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, any failure by these operators or tenants to effectively conduct their operations or to maintain and improve our properties could adversely affect their business reputation and their ability to attract and retain patients and residents in our properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. these operators and tenants generally have also agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with their respective businesses, and we cannot provide any assurance that they will have sufficient assets, income, access to financing and insurance coverage to enable it to satisfy its indemnification obligations. economic and other conditions that negatively affect geographic areas to which a greater percentage of our revenue is attributed could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. for the year ended december 31, 2012, approximately 44% of our revenue was derived from properties located in california (22%), texas (12%) and florida (10%). as a result, we are subject to increased exposure to adverse conditions affecting these regions, including downturns in the local economies or changes in local real estate conditions, increased competition or decreased demand, and changes in state-specific legislation, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. the bankruptcy, insolvency or financial deterioration of one or more of our major operators or tenants may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we lease our properties directly to operators in most cases, and in certain other cases, we lease to third-party tenants who enter into long-term management agreements with operators to manage the 15 table of contents properties. although our leases, financing arrangements and other agreements with our tenants and operators generally provide us the right under specified circumstances to terminate a lease, evict an operator or tenant, or demand immediate repayment of certain obligations to us, the bankruptcy and insolvency laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization that may render certain of these remedies unenforceable, or at the least, delay our ability to pursue such remedies. for example, we cannot evict a tenant or operator solely because of its bankruptcy filing. a debtor has the right to assume, or to assume and assign to a third party, or to reject its unexpired contracts in a bankruptcy proceeding. if a debtor were to reject its leases with us, our claim against the debtor for unpaid and future rents would be limited by the statutory cap set forth in the u.s. bankruptcy code, which may be substantially less than the remaining rent actually owed under the lease. in addition, the inability of our tenants or operators to make payments or comply with certain other lease obligations may affect our compliance with certain covenants contained in our debt securities, credit facilities and the mortgages on the properties leased or managed by such tenants and operators. in addition, under certain conditions, defaults under the underlying mortgages may result in cross-default under our other indebtedness. although we believe that we would be able to secure amendments under the applicable agreements in those circumstances, the bankruptcy of an applicable operator or tenant may potentially result in less favorable borrowing terms than currently available, delays in the availability of funding or other material adverse consequences. in addition, many of our facilities are leased to healthcare providers who provide long-term custodial care to the elderly; evicting such operators for failure to pay rent while the facility is occupied may be a difficult and slow process and may not be successful. our operators and tenants may not procure the necessary insurance to adequately insure against losses. our leases generally require our tenants and operators to secure and maintain comprehensive liability and property insurance that covers us, as well as the tenants and operators. some types of losses may not be adequately insured by our tenants and operators. should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could incur liability or lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenues from the property. in such an event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. we continually review the insurance maintained by our tenants and operators and believe the coverage provided to be customary for similarly situated companies in our industry. however, we cannot assure you that material uninsured losses, or losses in excess of insurance proceeds, will not occur in the future. our operators and tenants are faced with litigation and may experience rising liability and insurance costs. in some states, advocacy groups have been created to monitor the quality of care at healthcare facilities and these groups have brought litigation against the operators and tenants of such facilities. also, in several instances, private litigation by patients has succeeded in winning large damage awards for alleged abuses. the effect of this litigation and other potential litigation may materially increase the costs incurred by our operators and tenants for monitoring and reporting quality of care compliance. in addition, their cost of liability and medical malpractice insurance can be significant and may increase so long as the present healthcare litigation environment continues. cost increases could cause our operators to be unable to make their lease or mortgage payments or fail to purchase the appropriate liability and malpractice insurance, potentially decreasing our revenues and increasing our collection and litigation costs. in addition, as a result of our ownership of healthcare facilities, we may be named as a defendant in lawsuits allegedly arising from the actions of our operators or tenants, for which claims such operators and tenants have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against, but which may require unanticipated expenditures on our part. 16 table of contents operators and tenants that fail to comply with the requirements of, or changes to, governmental reimbursement programs such as medicare or medicaid, may cease to operate or be unable to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us. certain of our operators and tenants are affected by an extremely complex set of federal, state and local laws and regulations that are subject to frequent and substantial changes (sometimes applied retroactively) resulting from legislation, adoption of rules and regulations, and administrative and judicial interpretations of existing law. see "item 1 business government regulation, licensing and enforcement" above. for example, to the extent that any of our operators or tenants receive a significant portion of their revenues from governmental payors, primarily medicare and medicaid, such revenues may be subject to: statutory and regulatory changes; retroactive rate adjustments; recovery of program overpayments or set-offs; administrative rulings; policy interpretations; payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries or carriers; government funding restrictions (at a program level or with respect to specific facilities); and interruption or delays in payments due to any ongoing governmental investigations and audits at such property. in recent years, governmental payors have frozen or reduced payments to healthcare providers due to budgetary pressures. healthcare reimbursement will likely continue to be of significant importance to federal and state authorities. we cannot make any assessment as to the ultimate timing or the effect that any future legislative reforms may have on our operators' and tenants' costs of doing business and on the amount of reimbursement by government and other third-party payors. the failure of any of our operators or tenants to comply with these laws, requirements and regulations could materially adversely affect their ability to meet their financial and contractual obligations to us. legislation to address the federal government's projected operating deficit could have a material adverse effect on our operators' liquidity, financial condition or results of operations. congress may consider legislation to address the fiscal condition of the united states that may include entitlement reform, tax reform, reductions in domestic discretionary spending, budget sequestration of certain non-defense discretionary federal programs, and an increase in the national debt limit that could have a material adverse effect on our operators' liquidity, financial condition or results of operations. in particular, congress may consider legislation affecting the funding of entitlement programs such as medicare, medicaid and medicare advantage plans that may result in reductions in funding and reimbursements to providers; tax reform that may impact corporate and individual tax rates and retirement plans; and an increase in the federal debt limit that may have an impact on credit markets. additionally, the administration may implement proposals under current law or legislation that may be approved by congress that could modify the delivery of services and benefits under medicare, medicaid or medicare advantage plans. such changes could have a material adverse effect on our operators' liquidity, financial condition or results of operations, which could adversely affect their ability to satisfy their obligations to us and could have a material adverse effect on us. 17 table of contents operators and tenants that fail to comply with federal, state and local licensure, certification and inspection laws and regulations may cease to operate or be unable to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us. certain of our operators and tenants are subject to extensive federal, state, local and industry-related licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations and standards. our operators' or tenants' failure to comply with any of these laws, regulations or standards could result in loss of accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension or decertification from federal and state healthcare programs, loss of license or closure of the facility. for example, certain of our properties may require a license, registration and/or certificate of need to operate. failure of any operator or tenant to obtain a license, registration or certificate of need, or loss of a required license, registration or certificate of need, would prevent a facility from operating in the manner intended by such operator or tenant. additionally, failure of our operators and tenants to generally comply with applicable laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on facilities owned by or mortgaged to us, and therefore may materially adversely impact us. see "item 1 business government regulation, licensing and enforcement healthcare licensure and certificate of need" above. increased competition, as well as an inability to grow revenues as originally forecast, have resulted and may further result in lower net revenues for some of our operators and tenants and may affect their ability to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us. the healthcare industry is highly competitive and can become more competitive in the future. the occupancy levels at, and rental income from, our facilities is dependent on our ability and the ability of our operators and tenants to maintain and increase such levels and income and to compete with entities that have substantial capital resources. these entities compete with other operators and tenants on a number of different levels, including the quality of care provided, reputation, the physical appearance of a facility, price, the range of services offered, family preference, alternatives for healthcare delivery, the supply of competing properties, physicians, staff, referral sources, location and the size and demographics of the population in the surrounding area. private, federal and state payment programs and the effect of laws and regulations may also have a significant influence on the profitability of the properties and their tenants. our operators and tenants also compete with numerous other companies providing similar healthcare services or alternatives such as home health agencies, life care at home, community-based service programs, retirement communities and convalescent centers. such competition, which has intensified due to overbuilding in some segments in which we invest, has caused the occupancy rate of newly constructed buildings to slow and the monthly rate that many newly built and previously existing facilities were able to obtain for their services to decrease. we cannot be certain that the operators and tenants of all of our facilities will be able to achieve occupancy and rate levels that will enable them to meet all of their obligations to us. further, many competing companies may have resources and attributes that are superior to those of our operators and tenants. thus, our operators and tenants may encounter increased competition in the future that could limit their ability to maintain or attract residents or expand their businesses which could materially adversely affect their ability to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us, potentially decreasing our revenues, impairing our assets, and increasing our collection and dispute costs. our tenants in the life science industry face high levels of regulation, expense and uncertainty. life science tenants, particularly those involved in developing and marketing pharmaceutical products, are subject to certain unique risks, as follows: some of our tenants require significant outlays of funds for the research, development and clinical testing of their products and technologies. if private investors, the government or other sources of funding are unavailable to support such activities, a tenant's business may be adversely affected or fail; 18 table of contents the research, development, clinical testing, manufacture and marketing of some of our tenants' products require federal, state and foreign regulatory approvals which may be costly or difficult to obtain; even after a life science tenant gains regulatory approval and market acceptance, the product may still present significant regulatory and liability risks, including, among others, the possible later discovery of safety concerns, competition from new products, and ultimately the expiration of patent protection for the product; our tenants with marketable products may be adversely affected by healthcare reform and the reimbursement policies of government or private healthcare payors; and our tenants may be unable to adequately protect their intellectual property under patent, copyright or trade secret laws. we cannot assure you that our life science tenants will be successful in their businesses. if our tenants' businesses are adversely affected, they may have difficulty making payments to us, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we may be unable to successfully foreclose on the collateral securing our real estate-related loans, and even if we are successful in our foreclosure efforts, we may be unable to successfully operate, occupy or reposition the underlying real estate, which may adversely affect our ability to recover our investments. if an operator or tenant defaults under one of our mortgages or mezzanine loans, we may have to foreclose on the loan or protect our interest by acquiring title to the collateral and thereafter making substantial improvements or repairs in order to maximize the property's investment potential. in some cases, as noted above, the collateral consists of the equity interests in an entity that directly or indirectly owns the applicable real property or interests in operating facilities and, accordingly, we may not have full recourse to assets of that entity. operators, tenants or borrowers may contest enforcement of foreclosure or other remedies, seek bankruptcy protection against our exercise of enforcement or other remedies and/or bring claims for lender liability in response to actions to enforce mortgage obligations. foreclosure-related costs, high loan-to-value ratios or declines in the value of the facility may prevent us from realizing an amount equal to our mortgage or mezzanine loan upon foreclosure, and we may be required to record valuation allowance for such losses. even if we are able to successfully foreclose on the collateral securing our real estate-related loans, we may inherit properties for which we may be unable to expeditiously seek tenants or operators, if at all, which would adversely affect our ability to fully recover our investment. required regulatory approvals can delay or prohibit transfers of our healthcare facilities. transfers of healthcare facilities to successor tenants or operators may be subject to regulatory approvals or ratifications, including, but not limited to, change of ownership approvals under certificate of need laws and medicare and medicaid provider arrangements that are not required for transfers of other types of commercial operations and other types of real estate. the replacement of any tenant or operator could be delayed by the regulatory approval process of any federal, state or local government agency necessary for the transfer of the facility or the replacement of the operator licensed to manage the facility. if we are unable to find a suitable replacement tenant or operator upon favorable terms, or at all, we may take possession of a facility, which might expose us to successor liability or require us to indemnify subsequent operators to whom we might transfer the operating rights and licenses, all of which may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 19 table of contents competition may make it difficult to identify and purchase, or develop, suitable healthcare facilities, to grow our investment portfolio. we face significant competition from other reits, investment companies, private equity and hedge fund investors, sovereign funds, healthcare operators, lenders, developers and other institutional investors, some of whom may have greater resources and lower costs of capital than we do. increased competition makes it more challenging for us to identify and successfully capitalize on opportunities that meet our business goals and could improve the bargaining power of property owners seeking to sell, thereby impeding our investment, acquisition and development activities. if we cannot capitalize on our development pipeline, identify and purchase a sufficient quantity of healthcare facilities at favorable prices or if we are unable to finance acquisitions on commercially favorable terms, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. we may be required to incur substantial renovation costs to make certain of our healthcare properties suitable for other operators and tenants. healthcare facilities are typically highly customized and may not be easily adapted to non-healthcare-related uses. the improvements generally required to conform a property to healthcare use, such as upgrading electrical, gas and plumbing infrastructure, are costly and at times tenant-specific. a new or replacement operator or tenant may require different features in a property, depending on that operator's or tenant's particular operations. if a current operator or tenant is unable to pay rent and vacates a property, we may incur substantial expenditures to modify a property before we are able to secure another operator or tenant. also, if the property needs to be renovated to accommodate multiple operators or tenants, we may incur substantial expenditures before we are able to re-lease the space. these expenditures or renovations may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 20 table of contents we face additional risks associated with property development that can render a project less profitable or not profitable at all and, under certain circumstances, prevent completion of development activities once undertaken. large-scale, ground-up development of healthcare properties presents additional risks for us, including risks that: a development opportunity may be abandoned after expending significant resources resulting in the loss of deposits or failure to recover expenses already incurred; the development and construction costs of a project may exceed original estimates due to increased interest rates and higher materials, transportation, labor, leasing or other costs, which could make the completion of the development project less profitable; construction and/or permanent financing may not be available on favorable terms or at all; the project may not be completed on schedule, which can result in increases in construction costs and debt service expenses as a result of a variety of factors that are beyond our control, including natural disasters, labor conditions, material shortages, regulatory hurdles, civil unrest and acts of war; and occupancy rates and rents at a newly completed property may not meet expected levels and could be insufficient to make the property profitable. these risks could result in substantial unanticipated delays or expenses and, under certain circumstances, could prevent completion of development activities once undertaken, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our use of joint ventures may limit our flexibility with jointly owned investments. we have and may continue in the future to develop and/or acquire properties in joint ventures with other persons or entities when circumstances warrant the use of these structures. our participation in joint ventures is subject to risks that may not be present with other methods of ownership, including: we could experience an impasse on certain decisions because we do not have sole decision-making authority, which could require us to expend additional resources on resolving such impasses or potential disputes, including litigation or arbitration; our joint venture partners could have investment goals that are not consistent with our investment objectives, including the timing, terms and strategies for any investments; our ability to transfer our interest in a joint venture to a third party may be restricted; our joint venture partners might become bankrupt, fail to fund their share of required capital contributions or fail to fulfill their obligations as a joint venture partner, which may require us to infuse our own capital into the venture on behalf of the partner despite other competing uses for such capital; and our joint venture partners may have competing interests in our markets that could create conflict of interest issues. from time to time, we acquire other companies and if we are unable to successfully integrate these operations, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. acquisitions require the integration of companies that have previously operated independently. successful integration of the operations of these companies depends primarily on our ability to consolidate operations, systems, procedures, properties and personnel and to eliminate redundancies and costs. we may encounter difficulties in these integrations. potential difficulties associated with 21 table of contents acquisitions include the loss of key employees, the disruption of our ongoing business or that of the acquired entity, possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies and the assumption of unexpected liabilities, including: liabilities relating to the clean-up or remediation of undisclosed environmental conditions; unasserted claims of vendors or other persons dealing with the seller; liabilities, claims and litigation, whether or not incurred in the ordinary course of business, relating to periods prior to our acquisition; claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the seller; and liabilities for taxes relating to periods prior to our acquisition. in addition, the acquired companies and their properties may fail to perform as expected, including in respect of estimated cost savings. inaccurate assumptions regarding future rental or occupancy rates could result in overly optimistic estimates of future revenues. similarly, we may underestimate future operating expenses or the costs necessary to bring properties up to standards established for their intended use. if we have difficulties with any of these areas, or if we later discover additional liabilities or experience unforeseen costs relating to our acquired companies, we might not achieve the economic benefits we expect from our acquisitions, and this may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. from time to time we have made, and in the future we may seek to make, one or more material acquisitions, which may involve the expenditure of significant funds. we regularly review potential transactions in order to maximize shareholder value and believe that currently there are available a number of acquisition opportunities that would be complementary to our business, given the recent industry consolidation trend. in connection with our review of such transactions, we regularly engage in discussions with potential acquisition candidates, some of which are material. any future acquisitions could require the issuance of securities, the incurrence of debt, assumption of contingent liabilities or incurrence of significant expenditures, any of which could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, the financing required for such acquisitions may not be available on commercially favorable terms or at all. loss of our key personnel could temporarily disrupt our operations and adversely affect us. we are dependent on the efforts of our executive officers, and competition for these individuals is intense. although our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief investment officer and general counsel have employment agreements with us, we cannot assure you that they will remain employed with us. the loss or limited availability of the services of any of our executive officers, or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could, at least temporarily, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and be negatively perceived in the capital markets. unfavorable resolution of litigation matters and disputes, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. from time to time, we are involved in legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims. we may also be named as defendants in lawsuits allegedly arising out of our actions or the actions of our operators and tenants in which such operators and tenants have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with their respective businesses. an unfavorable resolution of litigation may have a material adverse effect on our 22 table of contents business, results of operations and financial condition. regardless of its outcome, litigation may result in substantial costs and expenses and significantly divert the attention of management. there can be no assurance that we will be able to prevail in, or achieve a favorable settlement of, litigation. in addition, litigation, government proceedings or environmental matters could lead to increased costs or interruption of our normal business operations. we may experience uninsured or underinsured losses, which could result in a significant loss of the capital we have invested in a property, decrease anticipated future revenues or cause us to incur unanticipated expense. we maintain comprehensive insurance coverage on our properties with terms, conditions, limits and deductibles that we believe are adequate and appropriate given the relative risk and costs of such coverage, and we continually review the insurance maintained by us. however, a large number of our properties are located in areas exposed to earthquake, windstorm, flood and other natural disasters and may be subject to other losses. in particular, our life science portfolio is concentrated in areas known to be subject to earthquake activity. while we purchase insurance for earthquake, windstorm, flood and other natural disasters that we believe is adequate in light of current industry practice and analysis prepared by outside consultants, there is no assurance that such insurance will fully cover such losses. these losses can decrease our anticipated revenues from a property and result in the loss of all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property. the insurance market for such exposures can be very volatile and we may be unable to purchase the limits and terms we desire on a commercially reasonable basis in the future. in addition, there are certain exposures where insurance is not purchased as we do not believe it is economically feasible to do so or where there is no viable insurance market. environmental compliance costs and liabilities associated with our real estate related investments may materially impair the value of those investments. under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, as a current or previous owner of real estate, we may be required to investigate and clean up certain hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum released at a property, and may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage and for investigation and cleanup costs incurred by the third parties in connection with the contamination. in addition, some environmental laws create a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and the costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. although we (i) currently carry environmental insurance on our properties in an amount and subject to deductibles that we believe are commercially reasonable, and (ii) generally require our operators and tenants to undertake to indemnify us for environmental liabilities they cause, such liabilities could exceed the amount of our insurance, the financial ability of the tenant or operator to indemnify us or the value of the contaminated property. the presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may materially adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. as the owner of a site, we may also be held liable under common law to third parties for damages and injuries resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the site. although we are generally indemnified by the current operators or tenants of our properties for contamination caused by them, these indemnities may not adequately cover all environmental costs. we may also experience environmental liabilities arising from conditions not known to us. the impact of the comprehensive healthcare regulation enacted in 2010 on us and operators and tenants cannot accurately be predicted. legislative proposals are introduced or proposed in congress and in some state legislatures each year that would affect major changes in the healthcare system, either nationally or at the state level. 23 table of contents notably, in march 2010, president obama signed into law the patient protection and affordable care act, along with the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (collectively, the "affordable care act"). the passage of the affordable care act has resulted in comprehensive reform legislation that is expected to expand healthcare coverage to millions of currently uninsured people beginning in 2014 and provide for significant changes to the u.s. healthcare system over the next ten years. to help fund this expansion, the affordable care act outlines certain reductions in medicare reimbursements for various healthcare providers, including long-term acute care hospitals and skilled nursing facilities, as well as certain other changes to medicare payment methodologies. this comprehensive healthcare legislation provides for extensive future rulemaking by regulatory authorities, and also may be altered or amended. we cannot accurately predict whether any pending legislative proposals will be adopted or, if adopted, what effect, if any, these proposals would have on our operators and tenants and, thus, our business. similarly, while we can anticipate that some of the rulemaking that will be promulgated by regulatory authorities will affect our operators and tenants and the manner in which they are reimbursed by the federal healthcare programs, we cannot accurately predict today the impact of those regulations on our operators and tenants and thus on our business. the supreme court's decision upholding the constitutionality of the individual mandate while striking down the provisions linking federal funding of state medicaid programs with a federally mandated expansion of those programs has not reduced the uncertain impact that the law will have on healthcare delivery systems over the next decade. we can expect that the federal authorities will continue to implement the law, but, because of the court's mixed ruling, the implementation will take longer than originally expected, with a commensurate increase in the period of uncertainty regarding the law's full long term financial impact on the delivery of and payment for healthcare. risk related to tax, including reit-related risks loss of our tax status as a reit would substantially reduce our available funds and would have material adverse consequences for us and the value of our common stock. qualification as a reit involves the application of numerous highly technical and complex provisions of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the "code"), for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations, as well as the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. we intend to continue to operate in a manner that enables us to qualify as a reit. however, our qualification and taxation as a reit depend upon our ability to meet, through actual annual operating results, asset diversification, distribution levels and diversity of stock ownership, the various qualification tests imposed under the code. for example, to qualify as a reit, at least 95% of our gross income in any year must be derived from qualifying sources, and we must make distributions to our stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our reit taxable income, excluding net capital gains. in addition, new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could change the tax laws or interpretations of the tax laws regarding qualification as a reit, or the federal income tax consequences of that qualification, in a manner that is materially adverse to our stockholders. accordingly, there is no assurance that we have operated or will continue to operate in a manner so as to qualify or remain qualified as a reit. if we lose our reit status, we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available to make payments of principal and interest on the debt securities we issue and to make distributions to stockholders. if we fail to qualify as a reit: we will not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income; we will be subject to corporate-level income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates; 24 table of contents we could be subject to increased state and local income taxes; and unless we are entitled to relief under relevant statutory provisions, we will be disqualified from taxation as a reit for the four taxable years following the year during which we fail to qualify as a reit. as a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a reit also could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital and could materially adversely affect the value of our common stock. we could have potential deferred and contingent tax liabilities from corporate acquisitions that could limit, delay or impede future sales of our properties. if, during the ten-year period beginning on the date we acquire certain companies, we recognize gain on the disposition of any property acquired, then, to the extent of the excess of (i) the fair market value of such property as of the acquisition date over (ii) our adjusted income tax basis in such property as of that date, we will be required to pay a corporate-level federal income tax on this gain at the highest regular corporate rate. there can be no assurance that these triggering dispositions will not occur, and these requirements could limit, delay or impede future sales of our properties. in addition, the irs may assert liabilities against us for corporate income taxes for taxable years prior to the time that we acquire certain companies, in which case we will owe these taxes plus interest and penalties, if any. there are uncertainties relating to the calculation of non-reit tax earnings and profits ("e&amp;p") in certain acquisitions, which may require us to distribute e&amp;p. in order to remain qualified as a reit, we are required to distribute to our stockholders all of the accumulated non-reit e&amp;p of certain companies that we acquire, prior to the close of the first taxable year in which the acquisition occurs. failure to make such e&amp;p distributions would result in our disqualification as a reit. the determination of the amount to be distributed in such e&amp;p distributions is a complex factual and legal determination. we may have less than complete information at the time we undertake our analysis, or we may interpret the applicable law differently from the irs. we currently believe that we have satisfied the requirements relating to such e&amp;p distributions. there are, however, substantial uncertainties relating to the determination of e&amp;p, including the possibility that the irs could successfully assert that the taxable income of the companies acquired should be increased, which would increase our non-reit e&amp;p. moreover, an audit of the acquired company following our acquisition could result in an increase in accumulated non-reit e&amp;p, which could require us to pay an additional taxable distribution to our then-existing stockholders, if we qualify under rules for curing this type of default, or could result in our disqualification as a reit. thus, we might fail to satisfy the requirement that we distribute all of our non-reit e&amp;p by the close of the first taxable year in which the acquisition occurs. moreover, although there are procedures available to cure a failure to distribute all of our e&amp;p, we cannot now determine whether we will be able to take advantage of these procedures or the economic impact on us of doing so. our charter contains ownership limits with respect to our common stock and other classes of capital stock. our charter contains restrictions on the ownership and transfer of our common stock and preferred stock that are intended to assist us in preserving our qualification as a reit. under our charter, subject to certain exceptions, no person or entity may own, actually or constructively, more than 9.8% (by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the outstanding shares of our common stock or any class or series of our preferred stock. 25 table of contents additionally, our charter has a 9.9% ownership limitation on the direct or indirect ownership of our voting shares, which may include common stock or other classes of capital stock. our board of directors, in its sole discretion, may exempt a proposed transferee from either ownership limit. the ownership limits may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. we are subject to certain provisions of maryland law and our charter relating to business combinations. the maryland business combination act provides that unless exempted, a maryland corporation may not engage in business combinations, including a merger, consolidation, share exchange or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities with an "interested stockholder" or an affiliate of an interested stockholder for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder became an interested stockholder, and thereafter unless specified criteria are met. an interested stockholder is generally a person owning or controlling, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting power of the outstanding voting stock of a maryland corporation. unless our board of directors takes action to exempt us, generally or with respect to certain transactions, from this statute in the future, the maryland business combination act will be applicable to business combinations between us and other persons. in addition to the restrictions on business combinations contained in the maryland business combination act, our charter also contains restrictions on business combinations. our charter requires that, except in certain circumstances, "business combinations," including a merger or consolidation, and certain asset transfers and issuances of securities, with a "related person," including a beneficial owner of 10% or more of our outstanding voting stock, be approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 90% of our outstanding voting stock. the restrictions on business combinations provided under maryland law and contained in our charter may delay, defer or prevent a change of control or other transaction even if such transaction involves a premium price for our common stock or our stockholders believe that such transaction is otherwise in their best interests. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 67 51 table of contents the table below sets forth information with respect to our debt, excluding premiums and discounts (dollars in thousands): as of december 31, (1) 2012 2011 balance: fixed rate $ 8,606,075 $ 7,166,349 variable rate 40,385 502,919 total $ 8,646,460 $ 7,669,268 percent of total debt: fixed rate 99.5 % 93.4 % variable rate 0.5 6.6 total 100 % 100 % weighted average interest rate at end of period: fixed rate 5.23 % 5.83 % variable rate 1.49 % 2.19 % total weighted average rate 5.22 % 5.59 % (1) excludes $82 million and $88 million at december 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, of other debt that represents non-interest bearing life care bonds and occupancy fee deposits at certain of our senior housing facilities, which have no scheduled maturities. at december 31, 2012, $86 million of variable-rate mortgages and &pound;137 million ($223 million) term loan are presented as fixed-rate debt as the interest payments under such debt have been swapped (pay fixed and receive float). at december 31, 2011, $88 million of variable-rate mortgages are presented as fixed-rate debt as the interest payments under such debt have been swapped (pay fixed and receive float); the interest rates for swapped debt are presented at the swapped rates. depreciation and amortization expense. depreciation and amortization expenses increased $8 million to $358 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. the increase was primarily the result of additive effects of our acquisitions during 2011 and 2012. general and administrative expenses. general and administrative expenses decreased $17 million to $79 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. the decrease was primarily due to an insurance recovery of $7 million during 2012 for previously incurred legal expenses and a decrease of $8 million in acquisition costs incurred during 2012 compared to similar costs incurred during 2011. litigation settlement and provision. on november 9, 2011, we entered into an agreement with ventas to settle all remaining claims relating to ventas's litigation against us arising out of ventas's 2007 acquisition of sunrise senior living reit. as part of the settlement, we paid $125 million to ventas, which resulted in a charge for the same amount (see the information set forth under the heading "legal proceedings" of note 12 to the consolidated financial statements). no similar charges were recognized during the year ended december 31, 2012. impairments (recoveries). during the year ended december 31, 2012, we recognized an impairment of $8 million as a result of the disposition of a life science land parcel (see note 17 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information). during the year ended december 31, 2011, we recognized an impairment of $15 million related to a senior secured term loan as a result of concluding that the carrying value of the loan was in excess of the fair value of the related collateral supporting the loan (see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information). other income, net. for the year ended december 31, 2012, other income, net decreased $10 million to $3 million. the decrease was primarily the result of a gain of $8 million resulting from our acquisition of our partner's 65% interest in and consolidation of hcp ventures ii in january 2011 52 table of contents (see note 8 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information) and $6 million received in connection with a litigation settlement in june 2011 that represents proceeds owed to us from a prior sale of assets. no similar gain upon consolidation was recognized or settlements were received during the year ended december 31, 2012. the decreases were partially offset by a $5 million charge during the year ended december 31, 2011 for an other-than-temporary impairment of marketable equity securities. income taxes. for the year ended december 31, 2012, income taxes decreased $3 million to a benefit of $2 million. the decrease in income taxes was primarily due to the tax benefit resulting from declines in taxable income of our trs entities during the year ended december 31, 2012. equity income from unconsolidated joint ventures. equity income from unconsolidated joint ventures is primarily the result of our 9.4% equity interest in hcr manorcare. the october 2011 cms reduction of skilled nursing reimbursements under resource utilization group-version 4 ("rugs-iv"), together with changes in requirements for the delivery of group therapy services, reduced hcr manorcare's revenues and increased its therapy costs in 2012. hcr manorcare partially mitigated these adverse impacts through a cost reduction program. further, hcr manorcare experienced increased exposure to general and professional liability claims resulting in higher charges in 2012, which, together with the circumstances discussed above, reduced our share in the earnings from our equity interest in hcr manorcare. during the year ended december 31, 2012, equity income from unconsolidated joint ventures increased $8 million to $54 million. this increase primarily was the result of the full-year share of earnings from our interest in hcr manorcare, inc. compared to a partial-year in 2011 (see notes 3 and 8 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information). the company's share of earnings from hcr manorcare (equity income) increases for the corresponding reduction of related lease expense recognized at the hcr manorcare level. discontinued operations. income from discontinued operations for the year ended december 31, 2012 was $34 million, compared to $7 million for the comparable period in 2011. the increase is primarily due to an increase in gains on real estate dispositions of $28 million, partially offset by a decline in operating income from discontinued operations of $2 million. during the year ended december 31, 2012, we sold real estate investments for $151 million, compared to $19 million for the year ended december 31, 2011. comparison of the year ended december 31, 2011 to the year ended december 31, 2010 segment noi and adjusted noi the tables below provide selected operating information for our spp and total property portfolio for each of our five business segments. our consolidated spp consists of 550 properties representing properties acquired or placed in service and stabilized on or prior to january 1, 2010 and that remained in operations under a consistent reporting structure through december 31, 2011. our consolidated total property portfolio represents 932 and 566 properties at december 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and excludes properties classified as discontinued operations. 53 table of contents senior housing results are as of and for the year ended december 31, 2011 and 2010 (dollars in thousands except per unit data): spp total portfolio 2011 2010 change 2011 2010 change rental revenues (1) $ 364,029 $ 329,926 $ 34,103 $ 470,592 $ 337,220 $ 133,372 resident fees and services 3,542 32,596 (29,054 ) 50,619 32,596 18,023 total revenues $ 367,571 $ 362,522 $ 5,049 $ 521,211 $ 369,816 $ 151,395 operating expenses (991 ) (26,474 ) 25,483 (34,538 ) (28,773 ) (5,765 ) noi $ 366,580 $ 336,048 $ 30,532 $ 486,673 $ 341,043 $ 145,630 straight-line rents (32,612 ) (20,416 ) (12,196 ) (34,911 ) (21,746 ) (13,165 ) dfl accretion (9,052 ) (10,641 ) 1,589 (17,918 ) (10,641 ) (7,277 ) amortization of above and below market lease intangibles, net (1,569 ) (1,974 ) 405 (1,466 ) (1,974 ) 508 lease termination fees 1,350 1,350 adjusted noi $ 323,347 $ 303,017 $ 20,330 $ 433,728 $ 306,682 $ 127,046 adjusted noi % change 6.7 % property count (2) 214 214 312 221 average capacity (units) (3) 24,246 24,219 33,911 24,453 average annual rent per unit (4) $ 13,377 $ 13,605 $ 12,887 $ 12,656 (1) represents rental and related revenues and income from dfls. (2) from our past presentation of spp for the year ended december 31, 2010, we removed five senior housing properties from spp that were sold or classified as held for sale. (3) represents average capacity as reported by the respective tenants or operators for the twelve month period and a quarter in arrears from the periods presented. (4) average annual rent per unit for operating properties under a ridea structure is based on noi. spp noi and adjusted noi. spp noi increased primarily as a result of rent escalations related to new leases or leases not subject to straight-line rents. spp noi includes a decline in resident fees and services and operating expenses as a result of the consolidation of 27 properties in four variable interest entities from august 31, 2010 to november 1, 2010 (see notes 12 and 18 to the consolidated financial statement for additional information regarding these vies). spp adjusted noi improved primarily as a result of annual rent escalations and an increase in rental revenues from properties transitioned from sunrise to other operators. total portfolio noi and adjusted noi. including the impact of our spp, our total portfolio noi and adjusted noi for the year ended december 31, 2011 primarily increased as a result of 66 senior housing leased properties classified as dfls that were acquired on april 7, 2011 from hcr manorcare. additionally, hcp ventures ii was consolidated on january 14, 2011 (see note 8 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information), resulting in us recognizing rental and related revenues for the 25 leased properties commencing on that date. on september 1, 2011, for 21 of these 25 properties, we entered into management contracts in a structure permitted by ridea (see note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information), resulting in the termination of the properties' leases. for these 21 properties that are now in a ridea structure, the 54 table of contents resident-level revenues and related operating expenses are reported in our consolidated financial statements beginning on that date. post-acute/skilled nursing results are as of and for the year ended december 31, 2011 and 2010 (dollars in thousands, except per bed data): spp total portfolio 2011 2010 change 2011 2010 change rental revenues (1) $ 36,745 $ 36,023 $ 722 $ 397,554 $ 36,023 $ 361,531 operating expenses (180 ) (135 ) (45 ) (585 ) (176 ) (409 ) noi $ 36,565 $ 35,888 $ 677 $ 396,969 $ 35,847 $ 361,122 straight-line rents (967 ) (1,162 ) 195 (968 ) (1,162 ) 194 dfl accretion (56,089 ) (56,089 ) amortization of above and below market lease intangibles, net 34 34 adjusted noi $ 35,598 $ 34,726 $ 872 $ 339,946 $ 34,685 $ 305,261 adjusted noi % change 2.5 % property count (2) 44 44 312 44 average capacity (beds) (3) 5,061 5,063 30,565 5,063 average annual rent per bed $ 7,069 $ 6,885 $ 11,140 $ 6,885 (1) represents rental and related revenues and income from dfls. (2) from our past presentation of spp for the year ended december 31, 2010, we removed a post-acute/skilled nursing property from spp that was sold or classified as held for sale. (3) represents average capacity as reported by the respective tenants or operators for the twelve month period and a quarter in arrears from the periods presented. total portfolio noi and adjusted noi. our total portfolio noi and adjusted noi for the year ended december 31, 2011 primarily increased as a result of 268 post-acute/skilled nursing leased properties classified as dfls that were acquired on april 7, 2011 from hcr manorcare. 55 table of contents life science results are as of and for the year ended december 31, 2011 and 2010 (dollars and square feet in thousands, except per sq. ft. data): spp total portfolio 2011 2010 change 2011 2010 change rental and related revenues $ 236,996 $ 235,675 $ 1,321 $ 245,942 $ 237,160 $ 8,782 tenant recoveries 39,671 39,375 296 42,209 39,602 2,607 total revenues $ 276,667 $ 275,050 $ 1,617 $ 288,151 $ 276,762 $ 11,389 operating expenses (45,570 ) (45,613 ) 43 (52,796 ) (48,492 ) (4,304 ) noi $ 231,097 $ 229,437 $ 1,660 $ 235,355 $ 228,270 $ 7,085 straight-line rents (14,430 ) (15,395 ) 965 (14,971 ) (15,673 ) 702 amortization of above and below market lease intangibles, net (1,053 ) (394 ) (659 ) (1,123 ) (392 ) (731 ) lease termination fees (7,011 ) (7,267 ) 256 (7,011 ) (7,267 ) 256 adjusted noi $ 208,603 $ 206,381 $ 2,222 $ 212,250 $ 204,938 $ 7,312 adjusted noi % change 1.1 % property count 95 95 104 98 average occupancy 92.2 % 90.0 % 89.6 % 89.0 % average occupied square feet 5,825 5,687 6,076 5,740 average annual rent per occupied sq. ft. $ 44 $ 44 $ 44 $ 44 spp noi and adjusted noi. spp noi increased primarily as a result of annual rent escalations on leases not subject to straight-line rents. spp adjusted noi primarily increased as a result of annual rent escalations, partially offset by a decline due to deferred rent payments in 2010 that did not reoccur in 2011. total portfolio noi and adjusted noi. including the impact from our spp, our total portfolio noi increased primarily as a result of the additive effect of our life science acquisitions during 2010 and 2011. during the year ended december 31, 2011, 949,000 square feet of new and renewal leases commenced at an average annual base rent of $24.32 per square foot compared to 852,000 square feet of expiring and terminated leases with an average annual base rent of $24.62 per square foot. during the year ended december 31, 2011, we acquired 140,000 square feet with an average annual base rent of $33.30 per square foot. 56 table of contents medical office results are as of and for the year ended december 31, 2011 and 2010 (dollars and square feet in thousands, except per sq. ft. data): spp total portfolio 2011 2010 change 2011 2010 change rental and related revenues $ 263,743 $ 260,083 $ 3,660 $ 272,362 $ 262,276 $ 10,086 tenant recoveries 45,191 46,631 (1,440 ) 47,753 47,009 744 total revenues $ 308,934 $ 306,714 $ 2,220 $ 320,115 $ 309,285 $ 10,830 operating expenses (118,909 ) (121,576 ) 2,667 (127,902 ) (127,887 ) (15 ) noi $ 190,025 $ 185,138 $ 4,887 $ 192,213 $ 181,398 $ 10,815 straight-line rents (5,065 ) (3,162 ) (1,903 ) (5,691 ) (3,159 ) (2,532 ) amortization of above and below market lease intangibles, net (130 ) (2,179 ) 2,049 (130 ) (2,187 ) 2,057 lease termination fees (3 ) 3 (212 ) (398 ) 186 adjusted noi $ 184,830 $ 179,794 $ 5,036 $ 186,180 $ 175,654 $ 10,526 adjusted noi % change 2.8 % property count (1) 181 181 187 186 average occupancy 90.7 % 90.6 % 90.9 % 90.6 % average occupied square feet 11,483 11,467 11,865 11,583 average annual rent per occupied sq. ft. $ 26 $ 26 $ 26 $ 26 (1) from our past presentation of spp for the year ended december 31, 2010, we removed a mob that was sold or classified as held for sale. spp portfolio noi and adjusted noi. spp noi and adjusted noi increased year-over-year primarily as a result of rent escalations and an increase in medical office occupancy. total portfolio noi and adjusted noi. in addition to the impact from spp, total portfolio noi and adjusted noi increased year-over-year as a result of the additive effect of our mob acquisitions during 2010 and 2011. during the year ended december 31, 2011, 1.9 million square feet of new and renewal leases commenced at an average annual base rent of $22.01 per square foot compared to 1.8 million square feet of expiring and terminated leases with an average annual base rent of $22.92 per square foot. during the year ended december 31, 2011, we acquired 132,000 square feet with an average annual base rent of $18.74 per square foot. 57 table of contents hospital results are as of and for the year ended december 31, 2011 and 2010 (dollars in thousands, except per bed data): spp total portfolio 2011 2010 change 2011 2010 change rental and related revenues $ 77,676 $ 77,613 $ 63 $ 80,832 $ 81,091 $ (259 ) tenant recoveries 2,297 2,400 (103 ) 2,296 2,400 (104 ) total revenues $ 79,973 $ 80,013 $ (40 ) $ 83,128 $ 83,491 $ (363 ) operating expenses (4,328 ) (4,831 ) 503 (4,330 ) (4,830 ) 500 noi $ 75,645 $ 75,182 $ 463 $ 78,798 $ 78,661 $ 137 straight-line rents (904 ) (3,683 ) 2,779 (1,525 ) (4,148 ) 2,623 amortization of above and below market lease intangibles, net (771 ) (771 ) (871 ) (871 ) adjusted noi $ 73,970 $ 70,728 $ 3,242 $ 76,402 $ 73,642 $ 2,760 adjusted noi % change 4.6 % property count (1) 16 16 17 17 average capacity (beds) (2) 2,379 2,368 2,410 2,399 average annual rent per bed $ 32,912 $ 31,908 $ 33,499 $ 32,710 (1) from our past presentation of spp for the year ended december 31, 2010, we removed a hospital that was placed into redevelopment in 2011, which no longer meets our criteria for spp as of the date placed into redevelopment. (2) represents average capacity as reported by the respective tenants or operators for the twelve month period and a quarter in arrears from the periods presented. certain operators in our hospital portfolio are not required under their respective leases to provide operational data. spp and total portfolio noi and adjusted noi. noi increased for the year ended december 31, 2011 primarily as a result of rent escalations. adjusted noi increased primarily as a result of rent escalations and the expiration of rent abatements on our irvine hospital. other income and expense items interest income. for the year ended december 31, 2011, interest income decreased $60 million to $100 million as a result of decreases of income earned from and due to the settlement of our hcr manorcare debt investments in 2011 of $58 million, a decrease of $12 million due to interest earned from marketable debt securities that were sold in 2010 and a decline of $12 million of interest earned from our delphis loan as it was placed on non-accrual status in 2011; these decreases were partially offset by an increase of $35 million in interest earned and prepayment premiums and unamortized discounts recognized in april 2011 upon the early repayment of our loans to genesis healthcare. for a more detailed description of our loan investments and marketable debt securities, see notes 7 and 10, respectively, to the consolidated financial statements. investment management fee income. investment management fee income decreased $3 million to $2 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 primarily as a result of acquiring our partner's 65% interest in hcp ventures ii on january 14, 2011, which resulted in the termination of the partnerships' related management contracts. interest expense. for the year ended december 31, 2011, interest expense increased $131 million to $416 million. the increase in interest expense was primarily due to a $111 million increase from our $2.4 billion senior unsecured notes offering in january 2011 as a result of prefunding activities from our 58 table of contents hcr manorcare acquisition, the $11 million write-off of unamortized loan fees related to an expired bridge loan commitment and the consolidation of hcp ventures ii on january 14, 2011 that included the consolidation of $635 million of mortgage debt, which increases were partially offset by the impact of repayments of mortgage debt related to contractual maturities and senior unsecured notes during 2010 and 2011 and lower interest rates during 2011 as compared to 2010. our exposure to expense fluctuations related to our variable rate indebtedness is substantially mitigated by our interest rate swap contracts. for a more detailed discussion of our interest rate risk, see "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" in item 7a. the table below sets forth information with respect to our debt, excluding premiums and discounts (dollars in thousands): as of december 31, (1) 2011 2010 balance: fixed rate $ 7,166,349 $ 4,260,027 variable rate 502,919 306,290 total $ 7,669,268 $ 4,566,317 percent of total debt: fixed rate 93 % 93 % variable rate 7 7 total 100 % 100 % weighted average interest rate at end of period: fixed rate 5.83 % 6.35 % variable rate 2.19 % 4.03 % total weighted average rate 5.59 % 6.19 % (1) december 31, 2011 and 2010 excludes $88 million and $92 million, respectively, of other debt that represents non-interest bearing life care bonds and occupancy fee deposits at certain of our senior housing facilities, which have no scheduled maturities. at december 31, 2011, $88 million of variable-rate mortgages are presented as fixed-rate debt as the interest payments under such debt have been swapped (pay fixed and receive float). at december 31, 2010, $250 million of fixed-rate senior unsecured notes are presented as variable-rate debt as the interest payments under such debt has been swapped (pay float and receive fixed) and $60 million of variable-rate mortgages are presented as fixed-rate debt as the interest payments under such debt have been swapped (pay fixed and receive float); the interest rates for swapped debt are presented at the swapped rates. depreciation and amortization expense. depreciation and amortization expenses increased $43 million to $350 million for the year ended december 31, 2011. the increase in depreciation and amortization expense was primarily related to: (i) a $37 million increase as a result of the consolidation of hcp ventures ii on january 14, 2011 and (ii) a $12 million increase from the additive effect of our other property acquisitions during 2010 and 2011. general and administrative expenses. general and administrative expenses increased $13 million to $96 million for the year ended december 31, 2011. the increase in general and administrative expenses was a result of increases in acquisition costs, primarily attributable to our hcr manorcare acquisition and compensation related expenses. these increases were partially offset by a decrease in legal fees associated with litigation matters (see the information set forth under the heading "legal proceedings" of note 12 to the consolidated financial statements). litigation settlement and provision. on november 9, 2011, we entered into an agreement with ventas to settle all remaining claims relating to ventas's litigation against us arising out of ventas's 2007 acquisition of sunrise senior living reit. as part of the settlement, we paid $125 million to 59 table of contents ventas, which resulted in a charge for the same amount (see the information set forth under the heading "legal proceedings" of note 12 to the consolidated financial statements). no similar charges were recognized during the year ended december 31, 2010. impairments (recoveries). during the year ended december 31, 2011, we recognized an impairment of $15 million related to our delphis senior secured term loan as a result of concluding that the carrying value of this loan was in excess of the fair value of the related collateral supporting this loan (see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements). during the year ended december 31, 2010, we recognized aggregate income of $12 million, which represents impairment recoveries of portions of impairment charges recognized in 2009 of investments related to erickson retirement communities and its affiliate entities ("erickson"). erickson was the tenant at three of our senior housing ccrc dfls and the borrower of a senior construction loan in which we had a participation interest (see note 6 to the consolidated financial statements). other income, net. for the year ended december 31, 2011, other income, net decreased $3 million to $13 million. the year ended december 31, 2011, included the net impact of the following: (i) a gain of $8 million resulting from our january 2011 acquisition of our partner's 65% interest in and consolidation of hcp ventures ii, (ii) income of $6 million in connection with a litigation settlement in june 2011 for proceeds owed to the company from a sale of assets, and (iii) a charge of $5 million for an other-than-temporary impairment of marketable equity securities. the year ended december 31, 2010 included gains on marketable securities of $15 million. equity income from unconsolidated joint ventures. during the year ended december 31, 2011, equity income from unconsolidated joint ventures increased $42 million to $47 million. this increase was primarily a result of equity income from our 9.4% interest in hcr manorcare (see notes 3 and 8 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information), partially offset by the impact of our consolidation of hcp ventures ii on january 14, 2011, which was previously accounted for as an equity method investment. impairments of investments in unconsolidated joint ventures. during the year ended december 31, 2010, we recognized impairments of $72 million related to our 35% interest in hcp ventures ii, an unconsolidated joint venture that owned 25 senior housing properties previously leased by horizon bay (see note 8 to the consolidated financial statements). no similar impairments were recognized during the year ended december 31, 2011. discontinued operations. income from discontinued operations for the year ended december 31, 2011 was $7 million, compared to $29 million for the comparable period in 2010. the decrease is primarily due to a decrease in gains on real estate dispositions of $17 million and a decline in operating income from discontinued operations of $5 million. during the year ended december 31, 2011, we sold properties for $19 million, compared to $56 million for the year ended december 31, 2010. liquidity and capital resources our principal liquidity needs are to: (i) fund recurring operating expenses, (ii) meet debt service requirements, including $550 million of senior unsecured notes and $292 million of mortgage debt principal payments and maturities in 2013, (iii) fund capital expenditures, including tenant improvements and leasing costs, (iv) fund acquisition and development activities, and (v) make dividend distributions. we anticipate that cash flow from continuing operations over the next 12 months will be adequate to fund our business operations, debt service payments, recurring capital expenditures and cash dividends to shareholders. capital requirements relating to maturing indebtedness, acquisitions and development activities may require funding from borrowings and/or equity and debt offerings. 60 table of contents access to capital markets impacts our cost of capital and ability to refinance maturing indebtedness, as well as our ability to fund future acquisitions and development through the issuance of additional securities or secured debt. credit ratings impact our ability to access capital and directly impact our cost of capital as well. for example, as noted below, our revolving line of credit facility accrues interest at a rate per annum equal to libor plus a margin that depends upon our debt ratings. we also pay a facility fee on the entire revolving commitment that depends upon our debt ratings. as of february 11, 2013, we had a credit rating of bbb+ from fitch, baa1 from moody's and bbb+ from s&amp;p on our senior unsecured debt securities. net cash provided by operating activities was $1 billion and $724 million for the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. the increase in operating cash flows is primarily the result of the following: (i) the additive impact of our acquisitions in 2011 and 2012, (ii) assets placed in service in 2011 and 2012 and (iii) rent escalations and resets in 2011 and 2012, which increases were partially offset by increased debt interest payments. our cash flows from operations are dependent upon the occupancy level of multi-tenant buildings, rental rates on leases, our tenants' performance on their lease obligations, the level of operating expenses and other factors. the following are significant investing and financing activities for the year ended december 31, 2012: acquired $1.9 billion of real estate, including the $1.7 billion blackstone jv acquisition; purchased $215 million (&pound;137 million) of senior unsecured notes and funded $219 million of loans; raised $3.5 billion of debt and equity capital to fund, among other things, the aforementioned investments, repay debt totaling $860 million and redeem preferred securities for $296 million; and paid dividends on common and preferred stock of $865 million, which are generally funded by cash provided by our operating activities. debt bank line of credit and term loan. on march 27, 2012, we executed an amendment to our existing $1.5 billion unsecured revolving line of credit facility (the "facility"). this amendment reduces the cost of the facility (lower borrowing rate and facility fee) and extends the facility's maturity by one additional year to march 2016. the facility contains a one-year extension option. borrowings under this facility accrue interest at libor plus a margin that depends upon our debt ratings. we pay a facility fee on the entire revolving commitment that depends on our debt ratings. based on our debt ratings at february 11, 2013, the margin on the facility was 1.075%, and the facility fee was 0.175%. the facility also includes a feature that will allow us to increase the borrowing capacity by an aggregate amount of up to $500 million, subject to securing additional commitments from existing lenders or new lending institutions. on july 30, 2012, we entered into a credit agreement with a syndicate of banks for a &pound;137 million ($223 million at december 31, 2012) four-year unsecured term loan (the "term loan") that accrues interest at a rate of gbp libor plus 1.20%, based on our current debt ratings. concurrent with the closing of the term loan, we entered into a four-year interest rate swap agreement that fixed the rate of the term loan at 1.81%, subject to adjustments based on our credit ratings. the term loan contains a one-year committed extension option. our facility and term loan contain certain financial restrictions and other customary requirements. among other things, these covenants, using terms defined in the agreements (i) limit the ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to consolidated total asset value to 60%, (ii) limit the ratio 61 table of contents of secured debt to consolidated total asset value to 30%, (iii) limit the ratio of unsecured debt to consolidated unencumbered asset value to 60%, (iv) require a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.5 times and (v) require a formula-determined minimum consolidated tangible net worth of $9.2 billion at december 31, 2012. at december 31, 2012, we were in compliance with each of these restrictions and requirements of the facility and term loan. our facility also contains cross-default provisions to other indebtedness of ours, including in some instances, certain mortgages on our properties. certain mortgages contain default provisions relating to defaults under the leases or operating agreements on the applicable properties by our operators or tenants, including default provisions relating to the bankruptcy filings of such operator or tenant. although we believe that we would be able to secure amendments under the applicable agreements if a default as described above occurs, such a default may result in significantly less favorable borrowing terms than currently available, material delays in the availability of funding or other material adverse consequences. senior unsecured notes. at december 31, 2012, we had senior unsecured notes outstanding with an aggregate principal balance of $6.7 billion. interest rates on the notes ranged from 1.21% to 7.07% with a weighted average effective interest rate of 5.10% and a weighted average maturity of six years at december 31, 2012. the senior unsecured notes contain certain covenants including limitations on debt, maintenance of unencumbered assets, cross-acceleration provisions and other customary terms. at december 31, 2012, we believe we were in compliance with these covenants. mortgage debt. at december 31, 2012, we had $1.7 billion in aggregate principal amount of mortgage debt outstanding that is secured by 135 healthcare facilities (including redevelopment properties) with a carrying value of $2.1 billion. interest rates on the mortgage debt ranged from 1.54% to 8.69% with a weighted average effective interest rate of 6.13% and a weighted average maturity of four years at december 31, 2012. mortgage debt generally requires monthly principal and interest payments, is collateralized by certain properties and is generally non-recourse. mortgage debt typically restricts transfer of the encumbered properties, prohibits additional liens, restricts prepayment, requires payment of real estate taxes, requires maintenance of the assets in good condition, requires maintenance of insurance on the assets and includes conditions to obtain lender consent to enter into and terminate material leases. some of the mortgage debt is also cross-collateralized by multiple properties and may require tenants or operators to maintain compliance with the applicable leases or operating agreements of such real estate assets. other debt. at december 31, 2012, we had $82 million of non-interest bearing life care bonds at two of our continuing care retirement communities and non-interest bearing occupancy fee deposits at two of our senior housing facilities, all of which were payable to certain residents of the facilities (collectively, "life care bonds"). the life care bonds are refundable to the residents upon the termination of the contract or upon the successful resale of the unit. 62 table of contents debt maturities the following table summarizes our stated debt maturities and scheduled principal repayments at december 31, 2012 (in thousands): year term loan (1) senior unsecured notes mortgage total (2) 2013 $ $ 550,000 $ 291,747 $ 841,747 2014 487,000 179,695 666,695 2015 400,000 308,048 708,048 2016 222,694 900,000 291,338 1,414,032 2017 750,000 550,052 1,300,052 thereafter 3,650,000 65,886 3,715,886 222,694 6,737,000 1,686,766 8,646,460 (discounts) and premiums, net (24,376 ) (10,222 ) (34,598 ) $ 222,694 $ 6,712,624 $ 1,676,544 $ 8,611,862 (1) represents &pound;137 million translated into u.s. dollars as of december 31, 2012. (2) excludes $82 million of other debt that represents life care bonds that have no scheduled maturities. derivative financial instruments. we use derivative instruments to mitigate the effects of interest rate and foreign exchange fluctuations on specific forecasted transactions as well as recognized financial obligations or assets. we do not use derivative instruments for speculative or trading purposes. the following table summarizes our outstanding interest rate and foreign exchange swap contracts as of december 31, 2012 (dollars and gbp in thousands): date entered maturity date hedge designation fixed rate/buy amount floating/exchange rate index notional/sell amount fair value july 2005 july 2020 cash flow 3.82 % bma swap index $ 45,600 $ (8,666 ) november 2008 october 2016 cash flow 5.95 % 1 month libor+1.50% 27,000 (3,878 ) july 2009 july 2013 cash flow 6.13 % 1 month libor+3.65% 13,700 (155 ) july 2012 june 2016 cash flow 1.81 % 1 month gbp libor+1.20% &pound;137,000 89 july 2012 june 2016 cash flow $ 79,600 buy usd/sell gbp &pound; 50,700 (2,641 ) for a more detailed description of our derivative financial instruments, see note 24 to the consolidated financial statements and "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" in item 7a. equity at december 31, 2012, we had 453 million shares of common stock outstanding. at december 31, 2012, equity totaled $10.8 billion, and our equity securities had a market value of $20.7 billion. as of december 31, 2012, there were a total of four million downreit units outstanding in four limited liability companies in which we are the managing member. the downreit units are exchangeable for an amount of cash approximating the then-current market value of shares of our common stock or, at our option, shares of our common stock (subject to certain adjustments, such as stock splits and reclassifications). 63 table of contents shelf registration we have a prospectus that we filed with the sec as part of a registration statement on form s-3asr, using a shelf registration process which expires in july 2015. under the "shelf" process, we may sell any combination of the securities in one or more offerings. the securities described in the prospectus include common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares, debt securities and warrants. the prospectus only provides a general description of the securities we may offer. the prospectus may not be used to sell securities unless accompanied by a prospectus supplement or a free writing prospectus. each time we sell securities under the shelf registration, we will provide a prospectus supplement that will contain specific information about the terms of the securities being offered and of the offering. the prospectus supplement may also add, update or change information contained in the prospectus. we may offer and sell the securities pursuant to the prospectus through underwriters, dealers or agents or directly to purchasers, on a continuous or delayed basis. the securities may also be resold by selling security holders. the prospectus supplement for each offering will describe in detail the plan of distribution for that offering and will set forth the names of any underwriters, dealers or agents involved in the offering and any applicable fees, commissions or discount arrangements. we intend to use the net proceeds from the sales of the securities as set forth in the applicable prospectus supplement, and unless otherwise set forth in a therein, we will not receive any proceeds if the securities are sold by a selling security holder. non-gaap financial measure funds from operations ("ffo") we believe ffo applicable to common shares, diluted ffo applicable to common shares, and basic and diluted ffo per common share are important supplemental non-gaap measures of operating performance for a reit. because the historical cost accounting convention used for real estate assets utilizes straight-line depreciation (except on land), such accounting presentation implies that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. since real estate values instead have historically risen and fallen with market conditions, presentations of operating results for a reit that uses historical cost accounting for depreciation could be less informative. the term ffo was designed by the reit industry to address this issue. ffo is defined as net income applicable to common shares (computed in accordance with gaap), excluding gains or losses from acquisition and dispositions of depreciable real estate or related interests, impairments of, or related to, depreciable real estate, plus real estate and dfl depreciation and amortization, with adjustments for joint ventures. adjustments for joint ventures are calculated to reflect ffo on the same basis. ffo does not represent cash generated from operating activities in accordance with gaap, is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund cash needs and should not be considered an alternative to net income. we compute ffo in accordance with the current national association of real estate investment trusts' ("nareit") definition; however, other reits may report ffo differently or have a different interpretation of the current nareit definition from us. in addition, we present ffo before the impact of litigation settlement charges, preferred stock redemption charges, impairments (recoveries) of non-depreciable assets and merger-related items (defined below) ("ffo as adjusted"). management believes ffo as adjusted is a useful alternative measurement. this measure is a modification of the nareit definition of ffo and should not be used as an alternative to net income (determined in accordance with gaap). details of certain items that affect comparability are discussed under results of operations above. the following is a reconciliation from net income applicable to common shares, the most direct 64 table of contents comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with gaap, to ffo and ffo as adjusted (in thousands, except per share data): year ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 net income applicable to common shares $ 812,289 $ 515,302 $ 307,498 depreciation and amortization of real estate, in-place lease and other intangibles: continuing operations 358,245 349,922 306,934 discontinued operations 8,267 7,473 6,513 dfl depreciation 12,756 8,840 gain on sales of real estate (31,454 ) (3,107 ) (19,925 ) gain upon consolidation of joint venture (7,769 ) impairments of interests in unconsolidated joint venture 71,693 equity income from unconsolidated joint ventures (54,455 ) (46,750 ) (4,770 ) ffo from unconsolidated joint ventures 64,933 56,887 25,288 noncontrolling interests' and participating securities' share in earnings 17,547 18,062 15,767 noncontrolling interests' and participating securities' share in ffo (21,620 ) (20,953 ) (18,361 ) ffo applicable to common shares $ 1,166,508 $ 877,907 $ 690,637 distributions on dilutive convertible units 13,028 6,916 11,847 diluted ffo applicable to common shares $ 1,179,536 $ 884,823 $ 702,484 diluted ffo per common share $ 2.72 $ 2.19 $ 2.25 weighted average shares used to calculate diluted ffo per common share 434,328 403,864 312,797 diluted earnings per common share $ 1.90 $ 1.29 $ 1.00 depreciation and amortization of real estate, in-place lease and other intangibles 0.85 0.89 1.02 dfl depreciation 0.03 0.02 gain on sales of real estate and upon consolidation of joint venture (0.07 ) (0.03 ) (0.06 ) impairments of interests in unconsolidated joint ventures 0.23 joint venture and participating securities ffo adjustments 0.01 0.02 0.06 diluted ffo per common share $ 2.72 $ 2.19 $ 2.25 impact of adjustments to ffo: preferred stock redemption charge (1) $ 10,432 $ $ litigation settlement and provision charges (2) 125,000 other impairments (recoveries) (3) 7,878 15,400 (11,900 ) merger-related items (4) 5,642 26,596 4,339 $ 23,952 $ 166,996 $ (7,561 ) 65 table of contents year ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 ffo as adjusted applicable to common shares $ 1,190,460 $ 1,044,903 $ 683,076 distributions on dilutive convertible units 12,957 11,646 12,089 diluted ffo as adjusted $ 1,203,417 $ 1,056,549 $ 695,165 diluted ffo as adjusted per common share $ 2.78 $ 2.69 $ 2.23 weighted average shares used to calculate diluted ffo as adjusted per common share (5) 433,607 393,237 311,285 (1) in connection with the redemption of our preferred stock, during the year ended december 31, 2012, we incurred a redemption charge of $10.4 million related to the original issuance costs. (2) the litigation settlement charge during the year ended december 31, 2011 relates to the ventas settlement. (3) the following impairments, net of recoveries had an impact on ffo: the impairment charge during the year ended december 31, 2012 relates to the sale of a land parcel in our life science segment. the impairment charge during the year ended december 31, 2011 relates to our senior secured loan to delphis. recoveries for the year ended december 31, 2010 relate to portions of previous impairment charges related to investments in three direct financing leases (non-depreciable due to lessee purchase option) and a participation interest in a senior construction loan related to erickson. (4) the year ended december 31, 2012 merger-related items of $0.02 per share attributable to the senior housing portfolio acquisition include direct transaction costs and the impact of the negative carry of prefunding the transaction with the $1.0 billion, or 22 million shares, common stock offering completed on october 19, 2012 on the calculation of weighted average shares. proceeds from this offering were used to fund the senior housing portfolio acquisition. merger-related items for the year ended december 31, 2011 are attributable to our hcr manorcare acquisition (incurred from january 1st through april 6th 2011), which include the following: (i) $26.8 million of direct transaction costs, (ii) $23.9 million of interest expense associated with the $2.4 billion senior unsecured notes issued on january 24, 2011, proceeds from which were obtained to prefund the hcr manorcare acquisition, partially offset by (iii) $24.1 million of income related to gains upon the reinvestment of the our debt investment in hcr manorcare and other miscellaneous items. merger-related items for 2010 primarily include professional fees associated with our hcr manorcare acquisition. (5) our weighted average shares used to calculate diluted ffo as adjusted eliminate the impact of 46 million shares of common stock from our december 2010 offering and 30 million shares from our march 2011 common stock offering (excludes 4.5 million shares sold to the underwriters upon exercise of their option to purchase additional shares), which issuances increased our weighted average shares by 12.9 million and 1.5 million for the years ended december 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. proceeds from these offerings were used to fund a portion of the cash consideration for the hcr manorcare acquisition. off-balance sheet arrangements we own interests in certain unconsolidated joint ventures as described under note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. except in limited circumstances, our risk of loss is limited to our investment in the joint venture and any outstanding loans receivable. in addition, we have certain properties which serve as collateral for debt that is owed by a previous owner of certain of our facilities, as described under note 12 to the consolidated financial statements. our risk of loss for these certain properties is limited to the outstanding debt balance plus penalties, if any. we have no other material off-balance sheet arrangements that we expect would materially affect our liquidity and capital resources except those described below under contractual obligations . 66 table of contents contractual obligations the following table summarizes our material contractual payment obligations and commitments at december 31, 2012 (in thousands): total (1) less than one year 2014-2015 2016-2017 more than five years term loan (2) $ 222,694 $ $ $ 222,694 $ senior unsecured notes 6,737,000 550,000 887,000 1,650,000 3,650,000 mortgage debt 1,686,766 291,747 487,743 841,390 65,886 construction loan commitments (3) 50,216 35,926 14,290 development commitments (4) 13,514 13,079 435 ground and other operating leases 224,574 7,734 13,491 10,025 193,324 interest (5) 2,554,191 424,618 717,441 526,560 885,572 total $ 11,488,955 $ 1,323,104 $ 2,120,400 $ 3,250,669 $ 4,794,782 (1) excludes $82 million of other debt that represents life care bonds that have no scheduled maturities. (2) represents &pound;137 million translated into u.s. dollars as of december 31, 2012. (3) represents commitments to finance development projects and related working capital financings. (4) represents construction and other commitments for developments in progress. (5) interest on variable-rate debt is calculated using rates in effect at december 31, 2012. inflation our leases often provide for either fixed increases in base rents or indexed escalators, based on the consumer price index or other measures, and/or additional rent based on increases in the tenants' operating revenues. most of our mob leases require the tenant to pay a share of property operating costs such as real estate taxes, insurance and utilities. substantially all of our senior housing, life science, post-acute/skilled nursing and hospital leases require the operator or tenant to pay all of the property operating costs or reimburse us for all such costs. we believe that inflationary increases in expenses will be offset, in part, by the operator or tenant expense reimbursements and contractual rent increases described above. recent accounting pronouncements see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for the impact of new accounting standards. there were no accounting pronouncements that were issued, but not yet adopted by us, that we believe will materially impact our consolidated financial statements. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we use derivative financial instruments in the normal course of business to mitigate interest rate and foreign currency risk. we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. derivatives are recorded on the consolidated balance sheets at their fair value. see note 24 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. to illustrate the effect of movements in the interest rate and foreign currency markets, we performed a market sensitivity analysis on our hedging instruments. we applied various basis point spreads to the underlying interest rate curves and foreign currency exchange rates of the derivative portfolio in order to determine the instruments' change in fair value. assuming a one percentage point change in the underlying interest rate curve and foreign currency exchange rates, the estimated change 67 table of contents in fair value of each of the underlying derivative instruments would not exceed $8 million. see note 24 to the consolidated financial statements for additional analysis details. interest rate risk. at december 31, 2012, we were exposed to market risks related to fluctuations in interest rates on properties with a gross value of $83 million that are subject to leases where the payments fluctuate with changes in libor (excludes $223 million of variable-rate senior unsecured notes that have been hedged through interest-rate swap contracts). our exposure to income fluctuations related to our variable-rate investments is partially offset by: (i) $25 million of variable-rate senior unsecured notes and (ii) $15 million of variable-rate mortgage debt payable (excludes $86 million of variable-rate mortgage notes that have been hedged through interest-rate swap contracts). additionally, our exposure to market risks related to fluctuations in interest rates excludes our gbp denominated $223 million (&pound;137 million) variable-rate term loan that has been hedged through interest-rate swap contracts. interest rate fluctuations will generally not affect our future earnings or cash flows on our fixed rate debt and assets unless such instruments mature or are otherwise terminated. however, interest rate changes will affect the fair value of our fixed rate instruments. conversely, changes in interest rates on variable rate debt and investments would change our future earnings and cash flows, but not significantly affect the fair value of those instruments. assuming a one percentage point increase in the interest rate related to the variable-rate investments and variable-rate debt, and assuming no other changes in the outstanding balance as of december 31, 2012, our annual interest expense would increase by approximately $0.3 million, or less than $0.01 per common share on a diluted basis. foreign currency exchange rate risk. at december 31, 2012, our exposure to foreign currency exchange rates relates to forecasted interest receipts from our gbp denominated senior unsecured notes (see additional discussion of the four seasons health care senior unsecured notes in note 10 of the consolidated financial statements). our foreign currency exchange exposure is mitigated by the forecasted interest and principal payments from our gbp denominated unsecured term loan (see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information) and a foreign currency swap contract for approximately 85% of the forecasted interest receipts from our senior unsecured notes through the non-call period which ends on june 15, 2016. market risk. we have investments in marketable debt securities classified as held-to-maturity, because we have the positive intent and ability to hold the securities to maturity. held-to-maturity securities are recorded at amortized cost and adjusted for the amortization of premiums and discounts through maturity. we consider a variety of factors in evaluating an other-than-temporary decline in value, such as: the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been less than our current adjusted carrying value; the issuer's financial condition, capital strength and near-term prospects; any recent events specific to that issuer and economic conditions of its industry; and our investment horizon in relationship to an anticipated near-term recovery in the market value, if any. at december 31, 2012, the fair value and adjusted carrying value of marketable debt securities were $234 million and $223 million, respectively. we have investments in marketable equity securities classified as available-for-sale. gains and losses on these securities are recognized in income when realized, and losses are recognized when an other-than-temporary decline in value is identified. an initial indicator of an other-than-temporary decline in value for marketable equity securities is based on the severity of the decline in market value below the cost basis for an extended period of time. we consider a variety of factors in evaluating an other-than-temporary decline in value, such as: the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been less than our current cost basis; the issuer's financial condition, capital strength and near-term prospects; any recent events specific to that issuer and economic conditions of its industry; and our investment horizon in relationship to an anticipated near-term recovery in the market value, if 68 table of contents any. at december 31, 2012, the fair value and adjusted cost basis of marketable equity securities were $25 million and $17 million, respectively. the principal amount and the average interest rates for our loans receivable and debt categorized by maturity dates is presented in the table below. the fair value for our senior unsecured notes payable is based on prevailing market prices. the fair value estimates for loans receivable and mortgage debt payable are based on discounting future cash flows utilizing current rates for loans and debt of the same type and remaining maturity. maturity 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 thereafter total fair value (dollars in thousands) assets: loans receivable (usd) $ 38,633 (1) $ $ 15,640 $ 111,900 $ 111,742 $ $ 277,915 $ 279,850 weighted average interest rate 13.48 % % 8.00 % 7.25 % 11.61 % % 9.91 % debt securities held-for-sale (gbp) $ $ $ $ 222,809 $ $ $ 222,809 $ 234,137 weighted average interest rate % % % 12.25 % % % 12.25 % liabilities (2) : variable-rate debt: term loan (gbp) $ $ $ $ 222,694 $ $ $ 222,694 $ 222,694 weighted average interest rate % % % 2.00 % % % 2.00 % senior unsecured notes payable (usd) $ $ 25,000 $ $ $ $ $ 25,000 $ 24,982 weighted average interest rate % 1.27 % % % % % 1.27 % mortgage debt payable (usd) $ 6,430 $ 455 $ 8,500 $ $ $ $ 15,385 $ 14,205 weighted average interest rate 2.01 % % 1.75 % % % % 1.85 % fixed-rate debt: senior unsecured notes payable (usd) $ 550,000 $ 462,000 $ 400,000 $ 900,000 $ 750,000 $ 3,650,000 $ 6,712,000 $ 7,407,031 weighted average interest rate 5.80 % 3.32 % 6.64 % 5.07 % 6.04 % 4.89 % 5.11 % mortgage debt payable (usd) $ 285,317 $ 179,240 $ 299,548 $ 291,338 $ 550,052 $ 65,887 $ 1,671,382 $ 1,756,949 weighted average interest rate 6.25 % 5.78 % 6.17 % 6.88 % 6.04 % 5.26 % 6.17 % interest rate derivatives assets (liabilities): variable-rate debt: variable to fixed $ (155 ) $ $ $ (3,878 ) $ $ (8,666 ) $ (12,699 ) $ (12,699 ) weighted average pay rate 6.13 % % % 5.95 % % 3.82 % 4.50 % weighted average receive rate 3.86 % % % 2.67 % % 1.21 % 1.69 % variable to fixed (gbp) $ $ $ $ 89 $ $ $ 89 $ 89 weighted average pay rate % % % 1.81 % % % 1.81 % weighted average receive rate % % % 1.82 % % % 1.82 % (1) effective january 1, 2011, a senior secured loan to delphis was placed on non-accrual status. for additional information regarding the senior secured loan to delphis see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. (2) excludes $82 million of other debt that represents non-interest bearing life care bonds and occupancy fee deposits at certain of our senior housing facilities, which have no scheduled maturities.risk factors 12 healthcare segments senior housing. at december 31, 2013, we had interests in 444 senior housing facilities, 20 of which are in a ridea structure. excluding ridea properties, all of our senior housing facilities are triple-net leased to single tenants. senior housing facilities include assisted living facilities ("alfs"), independent living facilities ("ilfs") and continuing care retirement communities ("ccrcs"), which cater to different segments of the elderly population based upon their personal needs. services provided by our operators or tenants in these facilities are primarily paid for by the residents directly or through private insurance and are less reliant on government reimbursement programs such as medicaid and medicare. our senior housing property types are further described below: assisted living facilities. alfs are licensed care facilities that provide personal care services, support and housing for those who need help with activities of daily living ("adl"), such as bathing, eating and dressing, yet require limited medical care. the programs and services may include transportation, social activities, exercise and fitness programs, beauty or barber shop 5 table of contents access, hobby and craft activities, community excursions, meals in a dining room setting and other activities sought by residents. these facilities are often in apartment-like buildings with private residences ranging from single rooms to large apartments. certain alfs may offer higher levels of personal assistance for residents requiring memory care as a result of alzheimer's disease or other forms of dementia. levels of personal assistance are based in part on local regulations. at december 31, 2013, we had interests in 366 alfs. independent living facilities. ilfs are designed to meet the needs of seniors who choose to live in an environment surrounded by their peers with services such as housekeeping, meals and activities. these residents generally do not need assistance with adl. however, in some of our facilities, residents have the option to contract for these services. at december 31, 2013, we had interests in 64 ilfs. continuing care retirement communities. ccrcs provide housing and health-related services under long-term contracts. this alternative is appealing to residents as it eliminates the need for relocating when health and medical needs change, thus allowing residents to "age in place." some ccrcs require a substantial entry or buy-in fee, and most also charge monthly maintenance fees in exchange for a living unit, meals and some health services. ccrcs typically require the individual to be in relatively good health and independent upon entry. at december 31, 2013, we had interests in 14 ccrcs. our senior housing segment accounted for approximately 36%, 33% and 30% of total revenues for the years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. the following table provides information about our senior housing operator concentration for the year ended december 31, 2013: tenants/operators percentage of segment revenues percentage of total revenues hcr manorcare, inc. ("hcr manorcare") 10 28 (1) emeritus corporation ("emeritus") 35 13 sunrise senior living inc. ("sunrise") (2) 13 5 brookdale senior living, inc. ("brookdale") 12 4 (1) percentage of total revenues includes revenues earned from both senior housing and post-acute/skilled nursing facilities leased to hcr manorcare. (2) these concentrations include properties that are leased to tenants who have entered into management contracts with sunrise to operate the respective property on their behalf. post-acute/skilled nursing. at december 31, 2013, we had interests in 302 post-acute/skilled nursing facilities ("snfs"). snfs offer restorative, rehabilitative and custodial nursing care for people not requiring the more extensive and complex treatment available at hospitals. ancillary revenues and revenues from sub-acute care services are derived from providing services to residents beyond room and board and include occupational, physical, speech, respiratory and intravenous therapy, wound care, oncology treatment, brain injury care and orthopedic therapy, as well as sales of pharmaceutical products and other services. certain snfs provide some of the foregoing services on an out-patient basis. post-acute/skilled nursing services provided by our operators and tenants in these facilities are primarily paid for by private sources or through the medicare and medicaid programs. all of our snfs are triple-net leased to single tenants. our post-acute/skilled nursing segment accounted for approximately 29% of total revenues for each of the years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011. during the year ended december 31, 2013, hcr manorcare, as our tenant/operator, contributed 83% of our post-acute/skilled nursing segment revenues. 6 table of contents life science. at december 31, 2013, we had interests in 115 life science properties, including four facilities owned by our investment management platform. these properties contain laboratory and office space primarily for biotechnology, medical device and pharmaceutical companies, scientific research institutions, government agencies and other organizations involved in the life science industry. while these properties contain similar characteristics to commercial office buildings, they generally contain more advanced electrical, mechanical, and heating, ventilating, and air conditioning ("hvac") systems. the facilities generally have specialty equipment including emergency generators, fume hoods, lab bench tops and related amenities. in many instances, life science tenants make significant investments to improve their leased space, in addition to landlord improvements, to accommodate biology, chemistry or medical device research initiatives. life science properties are primarily configured in business park or campus settings and include multiple buildings. the business park and campus settings allow us the opportunity to provide flexible, contiguous/adjacent expansion to accommodate the growth of existing tenants. our properties are located in well-established geographical markets known for scientific research, including san francisco, san diego and salt lake city. at december 31, 2013, 96% of our life science properties were triple-net leased (based on leased square feet). our life science segment accounted for approximately 14%, 15% and 17% of total revenues for the years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. the following table provides information about our life science tenant concentration for the year ended december 31, 2013: tenants percentage of segment revenues percentage of total revenues amgen, inc. 18 3 genentech, inc. 18 3 medical office. at december 31, 2013, we had interests in 272 medical office buildings ("mobs"), including 66 facilities owned by our investment management platform. these facilities typically contain physicians' offices and examination rooms, and may also include pharmacies, hospital ancillary service space and outpatient services such as diagnostic centers, rehabilitation clinics and day-surgery operating rooms. while these facilities are similar to commercial office buildings, they require additional plumbing, electrical and mechanical systems to accommodate multiple exam rooms that may require sinks in every room, and special equipment such as x-ray machines. in addition, mobs are often built to accommodate higher structural loads for certain equipment and may contain "vaults" or other specialized construction. our mobs are typically multi-tenant properties leased to healthcare providers (hospitals and physician practices), with approximately 77% of our mobs, based on square feet, located on hospital campuses and 94% are affiliated with hospital systems. at december 31, 2013, 47% of our medical office buildings were triple-net leased (based on leased square feet). our medical office segment accounted for approximately 17%, 18% and 19% of total revenues for the years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. during the year ended december 31, 2013, hca, inc. ("hca"), as our tenant, contributed 14% of our medical office segment revenues. hospital. at december 31, 2013, we had interests in 20 hospitals, including four facilities owned by our investment management platform. services provided by our operators and tenants in these facilities are paid for by private sources, third-party payors (e.g., insurance and health maintenance organizations or "hmos"), or through the medicare and medicaid programs. our hospital property types include acute care, long-term acute care, specialty and rehabilitation hospitals. our hospitals are generally leased to single tenants or operators under triple-net lease structures. 7 table of contents our hospital segment accounted for approximately 4%, 5% and 5% of total revenues for the years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. the following table provides information about our hospital tenant/operator concentration for the year ended december 31, 2013: tenants/operators percentage of segment revenues percentage of total revenues hca (1) 17 3 tenet healthcare corporation 32 1 (1) percentage of total revenues from hca includes revenues earned from both our medical office and hospital segments. investment products properties under lease. we primarily generate revenue from properties under long-term leases. most of our rents and other earned income from leases are received under triple-net leases or leases that provide for a substantial recovery of property operating expenses, such as real estate taxes, repairs and maintenance, property management fees, utilities and insurance. however, some of our mob and life science facility rents are structured under gross or modified gross leases. accordingly, for such gross or modified gross leases, we incur the property operating expenses. our ability to grow income from leased properties depends, in part, on our ability to (i) increase rental income and other earned income by increasing rental rates and occupancy levels, (ii) maximize tenant recoveries and (iii) control non-recoverable operating expenses. most of our leases include contractual annual base rent escalation clauses that are either predetermined fixed increases or are a function of an inflation index, which may include minimum and/or maximum percentage increases. debt investments. our mezzanine loans are generally secured by a pledge of ownership interests of an entity or entities, which directly or indirectly own properties, and are subordinate to other debt, including mortgages and other mezzanine loans. our mortgage and construction loans are typically made to healthcare providers, and healthcare real estate generally secures these loans. developments and redevelopments. we generally commit to development projects that are at least 50% pre-leased or when we believe that market conditions will support speculative construction. we work closely with our local real estate service providers, including brokerage, property management, project management and construction management companies to assist us in evaluating development proposals and completing developments. our development and redevelopment investments are primarily in our life science and medical office segments. redevelopments are properties that require significant capital expenditures (generally more than 25% of acquisition cost or existing basis) to renovate, achieve stabilization or to change the primary use of the property. investment management. we co-invest in real estate properties with institutional investors through joint ventures structured as partnerships or limited liability companies. we target institutional investors with long-term investment horizons who seek to benefit from our expertise in healthcare real estate. predominantly, we retain noncontrolling interests in the joint ventures ranging from 20% to 30% and serve as the managing member. these ventures generally allow us to earn acquisition and asset management fees, and have the potential for promoted interests or incentive distributions based on performance of the joint venture. our investment management platform represents the following unconsolidated joint ventures: (i) hcp ventures iii, llc, and hcp ventures iv, llc, which consists of mob portfolios, and (ii) the hcp life science ventures. for a more detailed description of these unconsolidated joint ventures, see note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. 8 table of contents operating properties ("ridea"). we may enter into contracts with healthcare operators to manage communities that are placed in a structure permitted by the housing and economic recovery act of 2008 (commonly referred to as "ridea"). under the provisions of ridea, a reit may lease "qualified healthcare properties" on an arm's length basis to a taxable reit subsidiary ("trs") if the property is operated on behalf of such subsidiary by a person who qualifies as an "eligible independent contractor." we view ridea as a structure primarily to be used on properties that present attractive valuation entry points and to drive growth by: (i) transitioning the asset to a new operator that can bring scale, operating efficiencies, and/or ancillary services; or (ii) investing capital to reposition the asset. portfolio summary at december 31, 2013, we managed $21.7 billion of investments in our owned portfolio and investment management platform. at december 31, 2013, we also owned $517 million of assets under development, redevelopment, and land held for future development. owned portfolio as of december 31, 2013, our leases, operating properties and debt investments in our owned portfolio consisted of the following (square feet and dollars in thousands): investment (3) number of properties (1) total investment interest income (5) segment capacity (2) properties (1) debt noi (4) senior housing 444 45,582 units $ 7,654,129 $ 164,663 $ 7,818,792 $ 653,191 $ 11,621 post-acute/skilled 302 38,566 beds 5,755,824 427,356 6,183,180 539,320 73,595 life science 111 7,080 sq. ft. 3,439,319 3,439,319 239,923 medical office 206 14,094 sq. ft. 2,663,101 2,663,101 212,958 hospital 16 2,221 beds 592,360 18,071 610,431 68,198 943 total 1,079 $ 20,104,733 $ 610,090 $ 20,714,823 $ 1,713,590 $ 86,159 (1) represents 1,059 properties under lease with an investment value of $19.3 billion and 20 operating properties under a ridea structure with an investment value of $768 million. (2) senior housing facilities are measured in available units (e.g., studio, one or two bedroom units). life science facilities and medical office buildings are measured in square feet. snfs and hospitals are measured in available bed count. (3) property investment represents: (i) the carrying amount of real estate and intangibles, after adding back accumulated depreciation and amortization; and (ii) the carrying amount of direct financing leases. debt investment represents the carrying amount of mezzanine, mortgage and other secured loan investments. (4) net operating income from continuing operations ("noi") is a non-gaap supplemental financial measure used to evaluate the operating performance of real estate properties. for the reconciliation of noi to net income for 2013, refer to note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. (5) interest income represents interest earned from our debt investments. see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on our business segments. developments and redevelopments at december 31, 2013, in addition to our investments in leased properties and debt investments, we had an aggregate investment of $517 million in assets under development, redevelopment, and land held for future development, primarily in our life science and medical office segments. 9 table of contents investment management platform as of december 31, 2013, our investment management platform consisted of the following properties under lease (square feet and dollars in thousands): segment number of properties capacity hcp's ownership interest joint venture investment (1) total revenues total operating expenses medical office 66 3,389 sq. ft. 20 - 30% $ 739,493 $ 71,755 $ 31,250 life science 4 278 sq. ft. 50 - 63% 145,410 10,867 1,889 hospital 4 149 beds 20% 77,610 7,550 986 total 74 $ 962,513 $ 90,172 $ 34,125 (1) represents the joint ventures' carrying amount of real estate and intangibles, after adding back accumulated depreciation and amortization. employees of hcp at december 31, 2013, we had 154 full-time employees, none of whom are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. government regulation, licensing and enforcement overview our tenants and operators are typically subject to extensive and complex federal, state and local healthcare laws and regulations relating to fraud and abuse practices, government reimbursement, licensure and certificate of need and similar laws governing the operation of healthcare facilities, and we expect that the healthcare industry, in general, will continue to face increased regulation and pressure in the areas of fraud, waste and abuse, cost control, healthcare management and provision of services, among others. these regulations are wide-ranging and can subject our tenants and operators to civil, criminal and administrative sanctions. affected tenants and operators may find it increasingly difficult to comply with this complex and evolving regulatory environment because of a relative lack of guidance in many areas as certain of our healthcare properties are subject to oversight from several government agencies and the laws may vary from one jurisdiction to another. changes in laws and regulations and reimbursement enforcement activity and regulatory non-compliance by our tenants and operators can all have a significant effect on their operations and financial condition, which in turn may adversely impact us, as detailed below and set forth under "risk factors" in item 1a. based on information primarily provided by our tenants and operators, excluding our medical office segment, at december 31, 2013 we estimate that approximately 17% and 14% of the annualized base rental payments received from our tenants and operators were dependent on medicare and medicaid reimbursement, respectively. the following is a discussion of certain laws and regulations generally applicable to our operators, and in certain cases, to us. fraud and abuse enforcement there are various extremely complex federal and state laws and regulations governing healthcare providers' relationships and arrangements and prohibiting fraudulent and abusive practices by such providers. these laws include (i) federal and state false claims acts, which, among other things, prohibit providers from filing false claims or making false statements to receive payment from medicare, medicaid or other federal or state healthcare programs, (ii) federal and state anti-kickback and 10 table of contents fee-splitting statutes, including the medicare and medicaid anti-kickback statute, which prohibit the payment or receipt of remuneration to induce referrals or recommendations of healthcare items or services, (iii) federal and state physician self-referral laws (commonly referred to as the "stark law"), which generally prohibit referrals by physicians to entities with which the physician or an immediate family member has a financial relationship, (iv) the federal civil monetary penalties law, which prohibits, among other things, the knowing presentation of a false or fraudulent claim for certain healthcare services and (v) federal and state privacy laws, including the privacy and security rules contained in the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, which provide for the privacy and security of personal health information. violations of healthcare fraud and abuse laws carry civil, criminal and administrative sanctions, including punitive sanctions, monetary penalties, imprisonment, denial of medicare and medicaid reimbursement and potential exclusion from medicare, medicaid or other federal or state healthcare programs. these laws are enforced by a variety of federal, state and local agencies and can also be enforced by private litigants through, among other things, federal and state false claims acts, which allow private litigants to bring qui tam or "whistleblower" actions. many of our operators and tenants are subject to these laws, and may become the subject of governmental enforcement actions if they fail to comply with applicable laws. reimbursement sources of revenue for many of our tenants and operators include, among others, governmental healthcare programs, such as the federal medicare program and state medicaid programs, and non-governmental payors, such as insurance carriers and hmos. as federal and state governments focus on healthcare reform initiatives, and as the federal government and many states face significant budget deficits, efforts to reduce costs by these payors will likely continue, which may result in reduced or slower growth in reimbursement for certain services provided by some of our tenants and operators. healthcare licensure and certificate of need certain healthcare facilities in our portfolio are subject to extensive federal, state and local licensure, certification and inspection laws and regulations. in addition, various licenses and permits are required to dispense narcotics, operate pharmacies, handle radioactive materials and operate equipment. many states require certain healthcare providers to obtain a certificate of need, which requires prior approval for the construction, expansion and closure of certain healthcare facilities. the approval process related to state certificate of need laws may impact some of our tenants' and operators' abilities to expand or change their businesses. life science facilities while certain of our life science tenants include some well-established companies, other such tenants are less established and, in some cases, may not yet have a product approved by the food and drug administration, or other regulatory authorities, for commercial sale. creating a new pharmaceutical product or medical device requires substantial investments of time and money, in part because of the extensive regulation of the healthcare industry; it also entails considerable risk of failure in demonstrating that the product is safe and effective and in gaining regulatory approval and market acceptance. senior housing entrance fee communities certain of our senior housing facilities are operated as entrance fee communities. generally, an entrance fee is an upfront fee or consideration paid by a resident, a portion of which may be refundable, in exchange for some form of long-term benefit. some of the entrance fee communities are subject to significant state regulatory oversight, including, for example, oversight of each facility's financial condition, establishment and monitoring of reserve requirements and other financial restrictions, the right of residents to cancel their contracts within a specified period of time, lien rights in favor of the residents, restrictions on change of ownership and similar matters. 11 table of contents americans with disabilities act (the "ada") our properties must comply with the ada and any similar state or local laws to the extent that such properties are "public accommodations" as defined in those statutes. the ada may require removal of barriers to access by persons with disabilities in certain public areas of our properties where such removal is readily achievable. to date, we have not received any notices of noncompliance with the ada that have caused us to incur substantial capital expenditures to address ada concerns. should barriers to access by persons with disabilities be discovered at any of our properties, we may be directly or indirectly responsible for additional costs that may be required to make facilities ada-compliant. noncompliance with the ada could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. the obligation to make readily achievable accommodations pursuant to the ada is an ongoing one, and we continue to assess our properties and make modifications as appropriate in this respect. environmental matters a wide variety of federal, state and local environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations affect healthcare facility operations. these complex federal and state statutes, and their enforcement, involve a myriad of regulations, many of which involve strict liability on the part of the potential offender. some of these federal and state statutes may directly impact us. under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner of real property or a secured lender, such as us, may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances at, under or disposed of in connection with such property, as well as other potential costs relating to hazardous or toxic substances (including government fines and damages for injuries to persons and adjacent property). the cost of any required remediation, removal, fines or personal or property damages and the owner's or secured lender's liability therefore could exceed or impair the value of the property and/or the assets of the owner or secured lender. in addition, the presence of such substances, or the failure to properly dispose of or remediate such substances, may adversely affect the owner's ability to sell or rent such property or to borrow using such property as collateral which, in turn, could reduce our earnings. for a description of the risks associated with environmental matters, see "risk factors" in item 1a of this report. item 1a. risk factors the section below discusses the most significant risk factors that may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. as set forth below, we believe that the risks facing our company generally fall into the following categories: risks related to our business; and risks related to tax matters, including reit-related risks. risks related to our business volatility, disruption or uncertainty in the financial markets may impair our ability to raise capital, obtain new financing or refinance existing obligations and fund real estate and development activities. the global financial markets have experienced pervasive and fundamental disruptions. while these conditions have stabilized since the first quarter of 2009 and the capital markets continue to show signs of improvement, the strength and sustainability of an economic recovery is uncertain. additional levels of market disruption, volatility or uncertainty could materially adversely impact our ability to raise capital, obtain new financing or refinance our existing obligations as they mature and fund real estate and development activities. 12 table of contents market volatility could also lead to significant uncertainty in the valuation of our investments and those of our joint ventures, which may result in a substantial decrease in the value of our properties and those of our joint ventures. as a result, we may not be able to recover the carrying amount of such investments and the associated goodwill, if any, which may require us to recognize impairment charges in earnings. we rely on external sources of capital to fund future capital needs, and limitations on our access to such capital could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to meet commitments as they become due or make future investments necessary to grow our business. we may not be able to fund all future capital needs from cash retained from operations. if we are unable to obtain enough internal capital, we may need to rely on external sources of capital (including debt and equity financing) to fulfill our capital requirements. if we cannot access these external sources of capital, we may not be able to make the investments needed to grow our business and to meet our obligations and commitments as they mature. our access to capital depends upon a number of factors, some of which we have little or no control over, including but not limited to: general availability of credit and market conditions, including rising interest rates and increased borrowing cost; the market price of the shares of our equity securities and the credit ratings of our debt and preferred securities; the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions; our degree of financial leverage and operational flexibility; the financial integrity of our lenders, which might impair their ability to meet their commitments to us or their willingness to make additional loans to us, and our inability to replace the financing commitment of any such lender on favorable terms, or at all; the stability of the market value of our properties; the financial performance and general market perception of our operators, tenants and borrowers; changes in the credit ratings on u.s. government debt securities or default or delay in payment by the united states of its obligations; and issues facing the healthcare industry, including, but not limited to, healthcare reform and changes in government reimbursement policies. if our access to capital is limited by these factors or other factors, it could have a material adverse impact on our ability to fund operations, refinance our debt obligations, fund dividend payments, acquire properties and development activities. adverse changes in our credit ratings could impair our ability to obtain additional debt and equity financing on favorable terms, if at all, and negatively impact the market price of our securities, including our common stock. the credit ratings of our senior unsecured debt are based on our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position and other factors employed by the credit rating agencies in their rating analyses of us. our credit ratings can affect the amount and type of capital we can access, as well as the terms of any financings we may obtain. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings, and in the event that our current credit ratings deteriorate, we would likely incur higher borrowing costs and it may be more difficult or expensive to obtain 13 table of contents additional financing or refinance existing obligations and commitments. also, a downgrade in our credit ratings would trigger additional costs or other potentially negative consequences under our current and future credit facilities and debt instruments. our level of indebtedness may increase and materially adversely affect our future operations. our outstanding indebtedness as of december 31, 2013 was approximately $8.7 billion. we may incur additional indebtedness in the future, including in connection with the development or acquisition of assets, which may be substantial. any significant additional indebtedness could negatively affect the credit ratings of our debt and require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to interest and principal payments due on our indebtedness. greater demands on our cash resources may reduce funds available to us to pay dividends, conduct development activities, make capital expenditures and acquisitions, or carry out other aspects of our business strategy. increased indebtedness can also limit our ability to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions, make us more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions and create competitive disadvantages for us compared to other companies with relatively lower debt levels. increased future debt service obligations may limit our operational flexibility, including our ability to finance or refinance our properties, contribute properties to joint ventures or sell properties as needed. covenants related to our indebtedness limit our operational flexibility, and breaches of these covenants could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. our unsecured credit facilities, unsecured debt securities and secured debt and other indebtedness that we may incur in the future, require or will require us to comply with a number of customary financial and other covenants, such as maintaining certain levels of debt service coverage and leverage ratio, tangible net worth requirements and maintaining reit status. our continued ability to incur additional debt and to conduct business in general is subject to compliance with these financial and other covenants, which limit our operational flexibility. for example, mortgages on our properties contain customary covenants such as those that limit or restrict our ability, without the consent of the lender, to further encumber or sell the applicable properties, or to replace the applicable tenant or operator. breaches of certain covenants may result in defaults under the mortgages on our properties and cross-defaults under certain of our other indebtedness, even if we satisfy our payment obligations to the respective obligee. additionally, defaults under the leases or operating agreements related to mortgaged properties, including defaults associated with the bankruptcy of the applicable tenant or operator, may result in a default under the underlying mortgage and cross-defaults under certain of our other indebtedness. covenants that limit our operational flexibility as well as defaults under our debt instruments could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. an increase in interest rates could increase interest cost on new debt, and could materially adversely impact our ability to refinance existing debt, sell assets and limit our acquisition, investment and development activities. if interest rates increase, so could our interest costs for any new debt. this increased cost could make the financing of any acquisition and development activity more costly. rising interest rates could limit our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures, or cause us to pay higher interest rates upon refinancing and increase interest expense on refinanced indebtedness. in addition, an increase in interest rates could decrease the amount third parties are willing to pay for our assets, thereby limiting our ability to reposition our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. we manage a portion of our exposure to interest rate risk by accessing debt with staggered maturities and through the use of derivative instruments, primarily interest rate swap agreements. however, no amount of hedging activity can fully insulate us from the risks associated with changes in interest rates. swap agreements involve risk, including that counterparties may fail to honor their 14 table of contents obligations under these arrangements, that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes, that the amount of income we earn from hedging transactions may be limited by federal tax provisions governing reits, and that these arrangements may cause us to pay higher interest rates on our debt obligations than would otherwise be the case. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate risk, if we choose to engage in such activities, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. we continue to pursue growth opportunities in international markets where the u.s. dollar is not the denominated currency. the ownership of investments located outside of the united states subjects us to risk from fluctuations in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the u.s. dollar. a significant change in the value of the foreign currency of one or more countries where we have a significant investment may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, debt covenant ratios, results of operations and cash flow. we may attempt to manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes through the use of derivative contracts or other methods. for example, we have a &pound;137 million gbp investment ($227 million at december 31, 2013) and maintain a &pound;137 million unsecured gbp term loan as a natural hedge. additionally, we executed a currency swap contract to hedge the risk related to a portion of the forecasted interest receipts on this investment. however, no amount of hedging activity can fully insulate us from the risks associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates, and the failure to hedge effectively against foreign currency exchange rate risk, if we choose to engage in such activities, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we depend on a limited number of operators and tenants that account for a large percentage of our revenues. during the year ended december 31, 2013, approximately 50% of our revenues were generated by our leasing or financial arrangements with the following four companies: hcr manorcare (28%); emeritus (13%); sunrise (5%); and brookdale (4%). the failure, inability or unwillingness of these operators or tenants to meet their obligations to us could materially reduce our cash flow as well as our results of operations, which could in turn reduce the amount of dividends we pay, cause our stock price to decline and have other material adverse effects on our business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, any failure by these operators or tenants to effectively conduct their operations or to maintain and improve our properties could adversely affect their business reputation and their ability to attract and retain patients and residents in our properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. these operators and tenants generally have also agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with their respective businesses, and we cannot provide any assurance that they will have sufficient assets, income, access to financing and insurance coverage to enable it to satisfy its indemnification obligations. economic and other conditions that negatively affect geographic areas to which a greater percentage of our revenue is attributed could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. for the year ended december 31, 2013, approximately 41% of our revenue was derived from properties located in california (21%), texas (11%) and florida (9%). as a result, we are subject to increased exposure to adverse conditions affecting these regions, including downturns in the local 15 table of contents economies or changes in local real estate conditions, increased competition or decreased demand, and changes in state-specific legislation, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. the bankruptcy, insolvency or financial deterioration of one or more of our major operators or tenants may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we lease our properties directly to operators in most cases, and in certain other cases, we lease to third-party tenants who enter into long-term management agreements with operators to manage the properties. although our leases, financing arrangements and other agreements with our tenants and operators generally provide us the right under specified circumstances to terminate a lease, evict an operator or tenant, or demand immediate repayment of certain obligations to us, the bankruptcy and insolvency laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization that may render certain of these remedies unenforceable, or at the least, delay our ability to pursue such remedies. for example, we cannot evict a tenant or operator solely because of its bankruptcy filing. a debtor has the right to assume, or to assume and assign to a third party, or to reject its unexpired contracts in a bankruptcy proceeding. if a debtor were to reject its leases with us, our claim against the debtor for unpaid and future rents would be limited by the statutory cap set forth in the u.s. bankruptcy code, which may be substantially less than the remaining rent actually owed under the lease. in addition, the inability of our tenants or operators to make payments or comply with certain other lease obligations may affect our compliance with certain covenants contained in our debt securities, credit facilities and the mortgages on the properties leased or managed by such tenants and operators. in addition, under certain conditions, defaults under the underlying mortgages may result in cross-default under our other indebtedness. although we believe that we would be able to secure amendments under the applicable agreements in those circumstances, the bankruptcy of an applicable operator or tenant may potentially result in less favorable borrowing terms than currently available, delays in the availability of funding or other material adverse consequences. in addition, many of our facilities are leased to healthcare providers who provide long-term custodial care to the elderly; evicting such operators for failure to pay rent while the facility is occupied may be a difficult and slow process and may not be successful. our operators and tenants may not procure the necessary insurance to adequately insure against losses. our leases generally require our tenants and operators to secure and maintain comprehensive liability and property insurance that covers us, as well as the tenants and operators. certain losses may not be adequately insured by our tenants and operators. should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could incur liability or lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenues from the property. in such an event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. we continually review the insurance maintained by our tenants and operators and believe the coverage provided to be customary for similarly situated companies in our industry. however, we cannot provide any assurances that we will continue to require the same level of insurance coverage of our tenants and operators, or that such insurance will be available at a reasonable cost in the future. also, we cannot assure you that material uninsured losses, or losses in excess of insurance proceeds, will not occur in the future. our operators and tenants are faced with litigation and may experience rising liability and insurance costs. in some states, advocacy groups have been created to monitor the quality of care at healthcare facilities and these groups have brought litigation against the operators and tenants of such facilities. also, in several instances, private litigation by patients has succeeded in winning large damage awards for alleged abuses. the effect of this litigation and other potential litigation may materially increase the costs incurred by our operators and tenants for monitoring and reporting quality of care compliance. in 16 table of contents addition, their cost of liability and medical malpractice insurance can be significant and may increase or even not be available at a reasonable cost so long as the present healthcare litigation environment continues. cost increases could cause our operators to be unable to make their lease or mortgage payments or fail to purchase the appropriate liability and malpractice insurance, potentially decreasing our revenues and increasing our collection and litigation costs. in addition, as a result of our ownership of healthcare facilities, we may be named as a defendant in lawsuits allegedly arising from the actions of our operators or tenants, for which claims such operators and tenants have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against, but which may require unanticipated expenditures on our part. operators and tenants that fail to comply with the requirements of, or changes to, governmental reimbursement programs such as medicare or medicaid, may cease to operate or be unable to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us. certain of our operators and tenants are affected by an extremely complex set of federal, state and local laws and regulations that are subject to frequent and substantial changes (sometimes applied retroactively) resulting from legislation, adoption of rules and regulations, and administrative and judicial interpretations of existing law. see "item 1 business government regulation, licensing and enforcement" above. for example, to the extent that any of our operators or tenants receive a significant portion of their revenues from governmental payors, primarily medicare and medicaid, such revenues may be subject to: statutory and regulatory changes; retroactive rate adjustments; recovery of program overpayments or set-offs; administrative rulings; policy interpretations; payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries or carriers; government funding restrictions (at a program level or with respect to specific facilities); and interruption or delays in payments due to any ongoing governmental investigations and audits at such property. in recent years, governmental payors have frozen or reduced payments to healthcare providers due to budgetary pressures. healthcare reimbursement will likely continue to be of significant importance to federal and state authorities. we cannot make any assessment as to the ultimate timing or the effect that any future legislative reforms may have on our operators' and tenants' costs of doing business and on the amount of reimbursement by government and other third-party payors. the failure of any of our operators or tenants to comply with these laws, requirements and regulations could materially adversely affect their ability to meet their financial and contractual obligations to us. legislation to address federal government operations and administration decisions affecting the centers for medicare and medicaid services could have a material adverse effect on our operators' liquidity, financial condition or results of operations. enactment of the consolidated appropriations act of 2014 and congressional consideration of legislation pertaining to the federal debt ceiling, the affordable care act, tax reform, and entitlement programs, including reimbursement rates for physicians, could have a material adverse effect on our operators' liquidity, financial condition or results of operations. in particular, funding for entitlement programs such as medicare and medicaid may result in increased costs and fees for programs such as 17 table of contents medicare advantage plans and reductions in reimbursements to providers; congressional action related to the federal debt ceiling may have an impact on credit markets; tax reform may impact corporate and individual tax rates as well as impact retirement plans. additionally, amendments to the patient protection and affordable care act, along with the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (collectively, the "affordable care act"), implementation of the affordable care act by the administration, and decisions by the centers for medicare and medicaid services could impact the delivery of services and benefits under medicare, medicaid or medicare advantage plans. such changes could have a material adverse effect on our operators' liquidity, financial condition or results of operations, which could adversely affect their ability to satisfy their obligations to us and could have a material adverse effect on us. operators and tenants that fail to comply with federal, state and local licensure, certification and inspection laws and regulations may cease to operate or be unable to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us. certain of our operators and tenants are subject to extensive federal, state, local and industry-related licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations and standards. our operators' or tenants' failure to comply with any of these laws, regulations or standards could result in loss of accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension or decertification from federal and state healthcare programs, loss of license or closure of the facility and/or the incurrence of considerable costs arising from an investigation or regulatory action. for example, certain of our properties may require a license, registration and/or certificate of need to operate. failure of any operator or tenant to obtain a license, registration or certificate of need, or loss of a required license, registration or certificate of need, would prevent a facility from operating in the manner intended by such operator or tenant. additionally, failure of our operators and tenants to generally comply with applicable laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on facilities owned by or mortgaged to us, and therefore may materially adversely impact us. see "item 1 business government regulation, licensing and enforcement healthcare licensure and certificate of need" above. increased competition, as well as an inability to grow revenues as originally forecast, has resulted and may further result in lower net revenues for some of our operators and tenants and may affect their ability to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us. the healthcare industry is highly competitive and can become more competitive in the future. the occupancy levels at, and rental income from, our facilities is dependent on our ability and the ability of our operators and tenants to maintain and increase such levels and income and to compete with entities that have substantial capital resources. these entities compete with other operators and tenants on a number of different levels, including the quality of care provided, reputation, the physical appearance of a facility, price, the range of services offered, family preference, alternatives for healthcare delivery, the supply of competing properties, physicians, staff, referral sources, location and the size and demographics of the population in the surrounding area. private, federal and state payment programs and the effect of laws and regulations may also have a significant influence on the profitability of the properties and their tenants. our operators and tenants also compete with numerous other companies providing similar healthcare services or alternatives such as home health agencies, life care at home, community-based service programs, retirement communities and convalescent centers. such competition, which is due, in part, to historical over-development in some segments in which we invest, has caused the occupancy rate of newly constructed buildings to slow and the monthly rate that many newly built and previously existing facilities were able to obtain for their services to decrease. we cannot be certain that the operators and tenants of all of our facilities will be able to achieve occupancy and rate levels that will enable them to meet all of their obligations to us. further, many competing companies may have resources and attributes that are superior to those of our operators and tenants. thus, our operators and tenants may encounter increased competition in the future that could 18 table of contents limit their ability to maintain or attract residents or expand their businesses which could materially adversely affect their ability to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us, potentially decreasing our revenues, impairing our assets, and increasing our collection and dispute costs. our tenants in the life science industry face high levels of regulation, expense and uncertainty. life science tenants, particularly those involved in developing and marketing pharmaceutical products, are subject to certain unique risks, as follows: some of our tenants require significant outlays of funds for the research, development and clinical testing of their products and technologies. if private investors, the government or other sources of funding are unavailable to support such activities, a tenant's business may be adversely affected or fail; the research, development, clinical testing, manufacture and marketing of some of our tenants' products require federal, state and foreign regulatory approvals which may be costly or difficult to obtain; even after a life science tenant gains regulatory approval and market acceptance, the product may still present significant regulatory and liability risks, including, among others, the possible later discovery of safety concerns, competition from new products, and ultimately the expiration of patent protection for the product; our tenants with marketable products may be adversely affected by healthcare reform and the reimbursement policies of government or private healthcare payors; and our tenants may be unable to adequately protect their intellectual property under patent, copyright or trade secret laws. we cannot assure you that our life science tenants will be successful in their businesses. if our tenants' businesses are adversely affected, they may have difficulty making payments to us, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we may be unable to successfully foreclose on the collateral securing our real estate-related loans, and even if we are successful in our foreclosure efforts, we may be unable to successfully operate, occupy or reposition the underlying real estate, which may adversely affect our ability to recover our investments. if an operator or tenant defaults under one of our mortgages or mezzanine loans, we may have to foreclose on the loan or protect our interest by acquiring title to the collateral and thereafter making substantial improvements or repairs in order to maximize the property's investment potential. in some cases, as noted above, the collateral consists of the equity interests in an entity that directly or indirectly owns the applicable real property or interests in operating facilities and, accordingly, we may not have full recourse to assets of that entity. operators, tenants or borrowers may contest enforcement of foreclosure or other remedies, seek bankruptcy protection against our exercise of enforcement or other remedies and/or bring claims for lender liability in response to actions to enforce mortgage obligations. foreclosure-related costs, high loan-to-value ratios or declines in the value of the facility may prevent us from realizing an amount equal to our mortgage or mezzanine loan upon foreclosure, and we may be required to record a valuation allowance for such losses. even if we are able to successfully foreclose on the collateral securing our real estate-related loans, we may inherit properties for which we may be unable to expeditiously seek tenants or operators, if at all, or equity interests that we are unable to immediately resell due to limitations under the securities laws, either of which would adversely affect our ability to fully recover our investment. 19 table of contents required regulatory approvals can delay or prohibit transfers of our healthcare facilities. transfers of healthcare facilities to successor tenants or operators may be subject to regulatory approvals or ratifications, including, but not limited to, change of ownership approvals under certificate of need laws and medicare and medicaid provider arrangements that are not required for transfers of other types of commercial operations and other types of real estate. the replacement of any tenant or operator could be delayed by the regulatory approval process of any federal, state or local government agency necessary for the transfer of the facility or the replacement of the operator licensed to manage the facility. if we are unable to find a suitable replacement tenant or operator upon favorable terms, or at all, we may take possession of a facility, which might expose us to successor liability, require us to indemnify subsequent operators to whom we might transfer the operating rights and licenses, or spend substantial time and funds to adapt the facility to other uses, all of which may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. competition may make it difficult to identify and purchase, or develop, suitable healthcare facilities to grow our investment portfolio. we face significant competition from other reits, investment companies, private equity and hedge fund investors, sovereign funds, healthcare operators, lenders, developers and other institutional investors, some of whom may have greater resources and lower costs of capital than we do. increased competition makes it more challenging for us to identify and successfully capitalize on opportunities that meet our business goals and could improve the bargaining power of property owners seeking to sell, thereby impeding our investment, acquisition and development activities. if we cannot capitalize on our development pipeline, identify and purchase a sufficient quantity of healthcare facilities at favorable prices or if we are unable to finance acquisitions on commercially favorable terms, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. we may be required to incur substantial renovation costs to make certain of our healthcare properties suitable for other operators and tenants. healthcare facilities are typically highly customized and may not be easily adapted to non-healthcare-related uses. the improvements generally required to conform a property to healthcare use, such as upgrading electrical, gas and plumbing infrastructure, are costly and at times tenant-specific. a new or replacement operator or tenant may require different features in a property, depending on that operator's or tenant's particular business. if a current operator or tenant is unable to pay rent and/or vacates a property, we may incur substantial expenditures to modify a property before we are able to secure another operator or tenant. also, if the property needs to be renovated to accommodate multiple operators or tenants, we may incur substantial expenditures before we are able to re-lease the space. these expenditures or renovations may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we face additional risks associated with property development that can render a project less profitable or not profitable at all and, under certain circumstances, prevent completion of development activities once undertaken. large-scale, ground-up development of healthcare properties presents additional risks for us, including risks that: a development opportunity may be abandoned after expending significant resources resulting in the loss of deposits or failure to recover expenses already incurred; the development and construction costs of a project may exceed original estimates due to increased interest rates and higher materials, transportation, labor, leasing or other costs, which could make the completion of the development project less profitable; 20 table of contents construction and/or permanent financing may not be available on favorable terms or at all; the project may not be completed on schedule as a result of a variety of factors that are beyond our control, including natural disasters, labor conditions, material shortages, regulatory hurdles, civil unrest and acts of war, which can result in increases in construction costs and debt service expenses or provide tenants or operators with the right to terminate pre-construction leases; and occupancy rates and rents at a newly completed property may not meet expected levels and could be insufficient to make the property profitable. these risks could result in substantial unanticipated delays or expenses and, under certain circumstances, could prevent completion of development activities once undertaken, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our use of joint ventures may limit our flexibility with jointly owned investments. we have and may continue in the future to develop and/or acquire properties in joint ventures with other persons or entities when circumstances warrant the use of these structures. our participation in joint ventures is subject to risks that may not be present with other methods of ownership, including: we could experience an impasse on certain decisions because we do not have sole decision-making authority, which could require us to expend additional resources on resolving such impasses or potential disputes, including litigation or arbitration; our joint venture partners could have investment goals that are not consistent with our investment objectives, including the timing, terms and strategies for any investments; our ability to transfer our interest in a joint venture to a third party may be restricted; our joint venture partners might become bankrupt, fail to fund their share of required capital contributions or fail to fulfill their obligations as a joint venture partner, which may require us to infuse our own capital into the venture on behalf of the partner despite other competing uses for such capital; and our joint venture partners may have competing interests in our markets that could create conflict of interest issues. from time to time, we acquire other companies and if we are unable to successfully integrate these operations, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. acquisitions require the integration of companies that have previously operated independently. successful integration of the operations of these companies depends primarily on our ability to consolidate operations, systems, procedures, properties and personnel and to eliminate redundancies and costs. we may encounter difficulties in these integrations. potential difficulties associated with acquisitions include the loss of key employees, the disruption of our ongoing business or that of the acquired entity, possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies and the assumption of unexpected liabilities, including: liabilities relating to the clean-up or remediation of undisclosed environmental conditions; unasserted claims of vendors or other persons dealing with the seller; liabilities, claims and litigation, whether or not incurred in the ordinary course of business, relating to periods prior to our acquisition; claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the seller; and 21 table of contents liabilities for taxes relating to periods prior to our acquisition. in addition, the acquired companies and their properties may fail to perform as expected, including in respect of estimated cost savings. inaccurate assumptions regarding future rental or occupancy rates could result in overly optimistic estimates of future revenues. similarly, we may underestimate future operating expenses or the costs necessary to bring properties up to standards established for their intended use. if we have difficulties with any of these areas, or if we later discover additional liabilities or experience unforeseen costs relating to our acquired companies, we might not achieve the economic benefits we expect from our acquisitions, and this may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. from time to time we have made, and in the future we may seek to make, one or more material acquisitions, which may involve the expenditure of significant funds. we regularly review potential transactions in order to maximize stockholder value and believe that currently there are available a number of acquisition opportunities that would be complementary to our business, given the recent industry consolidation trend. in connection with our review of such transactions, we regularly engage in discussions with potential acquisition candidates, some of which are material. any future acquisitions could require the issuance of securities, the incurrence of debt, assumption of contingent liabilities or incurrence of significant expenditures, any of which could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, the financing required for such acquisitions may not be available on commercially favorable terms or at all. loss of our key personnel could temporarily disrupt our operations and adversely affect us. we are dependent on the efforts of our executive officers, and competition for these individuals is intense. although our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief investment officer and general counsel have employment agreements with us, we cannot assure you that they will remain employed with us. the loss or limited availability of the services of any of our executive officers, or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could, at least temporarily, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and the value of our common stock. unfavorable resolution of litigation matters and disputes, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. from time to time, we are involved in legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims. we may also be named as defendants in lawsuits allegedly arising out of our actions or the actions of our operators and tenants in which such operators and tenants have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with their respective businesses. an unfavorable resolution of litigation may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. regardless of its outcome, litigation may result in substantial costs and expenses and significantly divert the attention of management. there can be no assurance that we will be able to prevail in, or achieve a favorable settlement of, litigation. in addition, litigation, government proceedings or environmental matters could lead to increased costs or interruption of our normal business operations. we may experience uninsured or underinsured losses, which could result in a significant loss of the capital we have invested in a property, decrease anticipated future revenues or cause us to incur unanticipated expense. we maintain comprehensive insurance coverage on our properties with terms, conditions, limits and deductibles that we believe are adequate and appropriate given the relative risk and costs of such 22 table of contents coverage, and we continually review the insurance maintained by us. however, a large number of our properties are located in areas exposed to earthquake, windstorm, flood and other natural disasters and may be subject to other losses. in particular, our life science portfolio is concentrated in areas known to be subject to earthquake activity. while we purchase insurance for earthquake, windstorm, flood and other natural disasters that we believe is adequate in light of current industry practice and analyses prepared by outside consultants, there is no assurance that such insurance will fully cover such losses. these losses can decrease our anticipated revenues from a property and result in the loss of all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property. following these events, we may remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. the insurance market for such exposures can be very volatile and we may be unable to purchase the limits and terms we desire on a commercially reasonable basis in the future. in addition, there are certain exposures where insurance is not purchased as we do not believe it is economically feasible to do so or where there is no viable insurance market. environmental compliance costs and liabilities associated with our real estate related investments may materially impair the value of those investments. under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, as a current or previous owner of real estate, we may be required to investigate and clean up certain hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum released at a property, and may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage and for investigation and cleanup costs incurred by the third parties in connection with the contamination. in addition, some environmental laws create a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and the costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. although we (i) currently carry environmental insurance on our properties in an amount and subject to deductibles that we believe are commercially reasonable, and (ii) generally require our operators and tenants to undertake to indemnify us for environmental liabilities they cause, such liabilities could exceed the amount of our insurance, the financial ability of the tenant or operator to indemnify us or the value of the contaminated property. the presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may materially adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. as the owner of a site, we may also be held liable to third parties for damages and injuries resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the site. although we are generally indemnified by the current operators or tenants of our properties for contamination caused by them, these indemnities may not adequately cover all environmental costs. we may also experience environmental liabilities arising from conditions not known to us. the impact of the comprehensive healthcare regulation enacted in 2010 on us and operators and tenants cannot accurately be predicted. legislative proposals are introduced or proposed in congress and in some state legislatures each year that would affect major changes in the healthcare system, either nationally or at the state level. notably, in march 2010, president obama signed into law the affordable care act. the passage of the affordable care act has resulted in comprehensive reform legislation that is expanding healthcare coverage to millions of currently uninsured people beginning in 2014 and that provides for significant changes to the u.s. healthcare system over the next ten years. to help fund this expansion, the affordable care act outlines certain reductions in medicare reimbursements for various healthcare providers, including long-term acute care hospitals and skilled nursing facilities, as well as certain other changes to medicare payment methodologies. this comprehensive healthcare legislation provides for extensive future rulemaking by regulatory authorities, and also may be altered or amended. we cannot accurately predict whether any pending legislative proposals will be adopted or, if adopted, what effect, if any, these proposals would have on our operators and tenants and, thus, our business. similarly, while we can anticipate that some of the rulemaking that will be promulgated by regulatory authorities 23 table of contents will affect our operators and tenants and the manner in which they are reimbursed by the federal healthcare programs, we cannot accurately predict today the impact of those regulations on our operators and tenants and thus on our business. the supreme court's decision upholding the constitutionality of the individual mandate while striking down the provisions linking federal funding of state medicaid programs with a federally mandated expansion of those programs has not reduced the uncertain impact that the law will have on healthcare delivery systems over the next decade. we can expect that the federal authorities will continue to implement the law, but, because of the supreme court's mixed ruling, the implementation will take longer than originally expected, with a commensurate increase in the period of uncertainty regarding the law's full long-term financial impact on the delivery of and payment for healthcare. we rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our business. we rely on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes, including financial transactions and records, personal identifying information, and tenant and lease data. we purchase some of our information technology from vendors, on whom our systems depend. we rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential tenant and other customer information, such as individually identifiable information, including information relating to financial accounts. although we have taken steps to protect the security of our information systems and the data maintained in those systems, it is possible that our safety and security measures will not be able to prevent the systems' improper functioning or damage, or the improper access or disclosure of personally identifiable information such as in the event of cyber-attacks. security breaches, including physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers and similar breaches, can create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. any failure to maintain proper function, security and availability of our information systems could interrupt our operations, damage our reputation, subject us to liability claims or regulatory penalties and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to certain provisions of maryland law and our charter relating to business combinations. the maryland business combination act provides that unless exempted, a maryland corporation may not engage in business combinations, including a merger, consolidation, share exchange or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities with an "interested stockholder" or an affiliate of an interested stockholder for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder became an interested stockholder, and thereafter unless specified criteria are met. an interested stockholder is generally a person owning or controlling, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting power of the outstanding voting stock of a maryland corporation. unless our board of directors takes action to exempt us, generally or with respect to certain transactions, from this statute in the future, the maryland business combination act will be applicable to business combinations between us and other persons. in addition to the restrictions on business combinations contained in the maryland business combination act, our charter also contains restrictions on business combinations. our charter requires that, except in certain circumstances, "business combinations," including a merger or consolidation, and certain asset transfers and issuances of securities, with a "related person," including a beneficial owner of 10% or more of our outstanding voting stock, be approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 90% of our outstanding voting stock. 24 table of contents the restrictions on business combinations provided under maryland law and contained in our charter may delay, defer or prevent a change of control or other transaction even if such transaction involves a premium price for our common stock or our stockholders believe that such transaction is otherwise in their best interests. risk related to tax, including reit-related risks loss of our tax status as a reit would substantially reduce our available funds and would have material adverse consequences for us and the value of our common stock. qualification as a reit involves the application of numerous highly technical and complex provisions of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the "code"), for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations, as well as the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. we intend to continue to operate in a manner that enables us to qualify as a reit. however, our qualification and taxation as a reit depend upon our ability to meet, through actual annual operating results, asset diversification, distribution levels and diversity of stock ownership, the various qualification tests imposed under the code. for example, to qualify as a reit, at least 95% of our gross income in any year must be derived from qualifying sources, and we must make distributions to our stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our reit taxable income, excluding net capital gains. in addition, new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could change the tax laws or interpretations of the tax laws regarding qualification as a reit, or the federal income tax consequences of that qualification, in a manner that is materially adverse to our stockholders. accordingly, there is no assurance that we have operated or will continue to operate in a manner so as to qualify or remain qualified as a reit. if we lose our reit status, we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available to make payments of principal and interest on the debt securities we issue and to make distributions to stockholders. if we fail to qualify as a reit: we will not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income; we will be subject to corporate-level income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates; we could be subject to increased state and local income taxes; and unless we are entitled to relief under relevant statutory provisions, we will be disqualified from taxation as a reit for the four taxable years following the year during which we fail to qualify as a reit. as a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a reit also could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital and could materially adversely affect the value of our common stock. we could have potential deferred and contingent tax liabilities from corporate acquisitions that could limit, delay or impede future sales of our properties. if, during the ten-year period beginning on the date we acquire certain companies, we recognize gain on the disposition of any property acquired, then, to the extent of the excess of (i) the fair market value of such property as of the acquisition date over (ii) our adjusted income tax basis in such property as of that date, we will be required to pay a corporate-level federal income tax on this gain at the highest regular corporate rate. there can be no assurance that these triggering dispositions will not occur, and these requirements could limit, delay or impede future sales of our properties. 25 table of contents in addition, the irs may assert liabilities against us for corporate income taxes for taxable years prior to the time that we acquire certain companies, in which case we will owe these taxes plus interest and penalties, if any. there are uncertainties relating to the calculation of non-reit tax earnings and profits ("e&amp;p") in certain acquisitions, which may require us to distribute e&amp;p. in order to remain qualified as a reit, we are required to distribute to our stockholders all of the accumulated non-reit e&amp;p of certain companies that we acquire, prior to the close of the first taxable year in which the acquisition occurs. failure to make such e&amp;p distributions would result in our disqualification as a reit. the determination of the amount to be distributed in such e&amp;p distributions is a complex factual and legal determination. we may have less than complete information at the time we undertake our analysis, or we may interpret the applicable law differently from the irs. we currently believe that we have satisfied the requirements relating to such e&amp;p distributions. there are, however, substantial uncertainties relating to the determination of e&amp;p, including the possibility that the irs could successfully assert that the taxable income of the companies acquired should be increased, which would increase our non-reit e&amp;p. moreover, an audit of the acquired company following our acquisition could result in an increase in accumulated non-reit e&amp;p, which could require us to pay an additional taxable distribution to our then-existing stockholders, if we qualify under rules for curing this type of default, or could result in our disqualification as a reit. thus, we might fail to satisfy the requirement that we distribute all of our non-reit e&amp;p by the close of the first taxable year in which the acquisition occurs. moreover, although there are procedures available to cure a failure to distribute all of our e&amp;p, we cannot now determine whether we will be able to take advantage of these procedures or the economic impact on us of doing so. our charter contains ownership limits with respect to our common stock and other classes of capital stock. our charter contains restrictions on the ownership and transfer of our common stock and preferred stock that are intended to assist us in preserving our qualification as a reit. under our charter, subject to certain exceptions, no person or entity may own, actually or constructively, more than 9.8% (by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the outstanding shares of our common stock or any class or series of our preferred stock. additionally, our charter has a 9.9% ownership limitation on the direct or indirect ownership of our voting shares, which may include common stock or other classes of capital stock. our board of directors, in its sole discretion, may exempt a proposed transferee from either ownership limit. the ownership limits may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 67 the table below sets forth information with respect to our debt, excluding premiums and discounts (dollars in thousands): as of december 31, (1) 2013 2012 balance: fixed rate $ 8,581,889 $ 8,606,075 variable rate 33,955 40,385 total $ 8,615,844 $ 8,646,460 percent of total debt: fixed rate 99.6 % 99.5 % variable rate 0.4 0.5 total 100 % 100 % weighted average interest rate at end of period: fixed rate 5.10 % 5.23 % variable rate 1.13 % 1.49 % total weighted average rate 5.08 % 5.22 % (1) excludes $75 million and $82 million at december 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, of other debt that represents non-interest bearing life care bonds and occupancy fee deposits at certain of our senior housing facilities, which have no scheduled maturities. at december 31, 2013, $72 million of variable-rate mortgages and &pound;137 million ($227 million) term loan are presented as fixed-rate debt as the interest payments under such debt have been swapped (pay fixed and receive float). at december 31, 2012, $86 million of variable-rate mortgages and &pound;137 million ($223 million) term loan are presented as fixed-rate debt as the interest payments under such debt have been swapped (pay fixed and receive float); the interest rates for swapped debt are presented at the swapped rates. depreciation and amortization expense. depreciation and amortization expenses increased $70 million to $423 million for the year ended december 31, 2013. the increase was primarily the result of the impact of our senior housing facility and mob acquisitions during 2012. general and administrative expenses. general and administrative expenses increased $30 million to $109 million for the year ended december 31, 2013. the year ended december 31, 2013 included $27.2 million of severance-related charges resulting from the termination of our former chairman, chief executive officer and president (see note 16 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information). the year ended december 31, 2012 included $7 million related to an insurance recovery for previously incurred legal expenses. impairments. during the year ended december 31, 2013, we recognized impairments of $1 million, included in discontinued operations, as a result of the reclassification of two mobs to held for sale (see note 17 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information). during the year ended december 31, 2012, we recognized an impairment of $8 million as a result of the planned disposition of a life science land parcel (see note 17 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information). other income, net. for the year ended december 31, 2013, other income, net increased $15 million to $18 million. the increase was primarily the result of gains from the sale of marketable equity securities during 2013 of $11 million. 52 table of contents income taxes. for the year ended december 31, 2013, income taxes increased by $7 million to $6 million. the increase in income taxes was primarily due to the increase in taxable income of our trs entities during the year ended december 31, 2013. equity income from unconsolidated joint ventures. for the year ended december 31, 2013, equity income from unconsolidated joint ventures increased $10 million to $64 million. the increase was primarily the result of: (i) a one-time distribution received from a senior housing development joint venture that exceeded our investment balance and (ii) the improved operating performance from our hcr manorcare equity investment. discontinued operations. income from discontinued operations for the year ended december 31, 2013 was $74 million, compared to $46 million for the comparable period in 2012. the increase is primarily due to an increase in gains on real estate dispositions of $38 million, partially offset by a decline in operating income from discontinued operations of $8 million and impairment charges in discontinued operations of $1 million. preferred stock dividends. on march 22, 2012, we announced the redemption of all outstanding shares of preferred stock. on april 23, 2012, we redeemed all outstanding shares of our preferred stock and paid all accrued and unpaid dividends to the redemption date. during the year ended december 31, 2012, we incurred a redemption charge of $10 million related to the original issuance costs of the preferred stock (this charge is presented as an additional preferred stock dividend in our consolidated income statements). comparison of the year ended december 31, 2012 to the year ended december 31, 2011 during the fourth quarter of 2012, we acquired 129 senior housing communities from the blackstone jv (see additional information in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). the results of operations from the acquisitions are reflected in our consolidated financial statements from those respective dates. on april 7, 2011, we completed our acquisition of substantially all of hcr manorcare's real estate assets; additionally, we purchased a noncontrolling equity interest in the operations of hcr manorcare. on january 14, 2011, we acquired our partner's 65% interest in hcp ventures ii that resulted in the consolidation of hcp ventures ii. on september 1, 2011, we entered into management contracts with brookdale with respect to 21 senior living communities (these 21 communities were acquired in january 2011 as part of our purchase of hcp ventures ii). for the communities that are in a ridea structure, the respective resident level revenues and related operating expenses are reported in our consolidated financial statements. see additional information regarding the hcr manorcare acquisition, hcp ventures ii purchase and the brookdale ridea transaction in notes 3, 8 and 12, respectively, to the consolidated financial statements. the results of operations from our hcr manorcare, hcp ventures ii and properties managed under a ridea structure are reflected in our financial statements from those respective dates. segment noi and adjusted noi the tables below provide selected operating information for our spp and total property portfolio for each of our five business segments. our consolidated spp consists of 551 properties representing properties acquired or placed in service and stabilized on or prior to january 1, 2011 and that remained in operations under a consistent reporting structure through december 31, 2012. our consolidated total property portfolio represents 1,071 and 917 properties at december 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and excludes properties classified as discontinued operations. 53 table of contents senior housing results are as of and for the year ended december 31, 2012 and 2011 (dollars in thousands except per unit data): spp total portfolio 2012 2011 (2) change 2012 2011 (2) change rental revenues (1) $ 379,636 $ 377,784 $ 1,852 $ 481,559 $ 469,251 $ 12,308 resident fees and services 1,054 3,542 (2,488 ) 139,073 49,091 89,982 total revenues $ 380,690 $ 381,326 $ (636 ) $ 620,632 $ 518,342 $ 102,290 operating expenses (613 ) (1,052 ) 439 (91,423 ) (33,372 ) (58,051 ) noi $ 380,077 $ 380,274 $ (197 ) $ 529,209 $ 484,970 $ 44,239 straight-line rents (24,731 ) (34,556 ) 9,825 (30,406 ) (34,889 ) 4,483 dfl accretion (6,863 ) (9,052 ) 2,189 (18,812 ) (17,918 ) (894 ) amortization of above and below market lease intangibles, net (1,569 ) (1,569 ) (1,320 ) (1,466 ) 146 lease termination fees 1,350 (1,350 ) adjusted noi $ 346,914 $ 335,097 $ 11,817 $ 478,671 $ 432,047 $ 46,624 adjusted noi % change 3.5 % property count 220 220 439 310 average capacity (units) (3) 25,091 24,988 36,694 30,167 average annual rent per unit (4) $ 13,850 $ 13,452 $ 13,140 $ 14,431 (1) represents rental and related revenues and income from dfls. (2) from our past presentation of spp for the year ended december 31, 2011, we removed four senior housing properties from spp that were sold or classified as held for sale. (3) represents average capacity as reported by the respective tenants or operators for the twelve month period and a quarter in arrears from the periods presented. (4) total portfolio average annual rent per unit for operating properties under a ridea structure is based on noi. spp adjusted noi. spp adjusted noi improved primarily as a result of annual rent escalations and an increase in rental revenues from properties that were previously transitioned from sunrise to other operators, partially offset by a decrease in additional rents. total portfolio noi and adjusted noi. including the impact of our spp, our total portfolio noi and adjusted noi for the year ended december 31, 2012 primarily increased as a result of 66 senior housing leased properties classified as dfls that were acquired on april 7, 2011 from hcr manorcare and 127 senior housing communities acquired on october 31, 2012 and two senior housing communities acquired on december 4, 2012 from the blackstone jv (see notes 3, 4 and 6 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the hcr manorcare acquisition, the blackstone jv acquisition and net investments in dfls, respectively). additionally, hcp ventures ii was consolidated on january 14, 2011 (see note 8 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information), resulting in us recognizing rental and related revenues for the 25 leased properties commencing on that date. on september 1, 2011, for 21 of these 25 properties, we entered into management contracts in a structure permitted by ridea (see note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information), resulting in the termination of the properties' leases. for these properties that are in a ridea structure, the resident-level revenues and related operating expenses are reported in our consolidated financial statements beginning on that date. 54 table of contents post-acute/skilled nursing results are as of and for the year ended december 31, 2012 and 2011 (dollars in thousands, except per bed data): spp total portfolio 2012 2011 (2) change 2012 2011 (2) change rental revenues (1) $ 28,182 $ 27,825 $ 357 $ 530,037 $ 388,633 $ 141,404 operating expenses (14 ) (14 ) (475 ) (419 ) (56 ) noi $ 28,168 $ 27,811 $ 357 $ 529,562 $ 388,214 $ 141,348 straight-line rents (724 ) (1,025 ) 301 (724 ) (1,025 ) 301 dfl accretion (75,428 ) (56,089 ) (19,339 ) amortization of above and below market lease intangibles, net 46 34 12 adjusted noi $ 27,444 $ 26,786 $ 658 $ 453,456 $ 331,134 $ 122,322 adjusted noi % change 2.5 % property count 34 34 302 302 average capacity (beds) (3) 3,634 3,664 38,459 26,167 average annual rent per bed $ 7,557 $ 7,314 $ 11,802 $ 12,669 (1) represents rental and related revenues and income from dfls. (2) from our past presentation of spp for the year ended december 31, 2011, we removed 11 post-acute/skilled nursing properties from spp that were sold or classified as held for sale. (3) represents average capacity as reported by the respective tenants or operators for the twelve month period and a quarter in arrears from the periods presented. spp noi and adjusted noi. spp noi and adjusted noi increased year-over-year primarily as a result of rent escalations. total portfolio noi and adjusted noi. including the impact of our spp, our total portfolio noi and adjusted noi for the year ended december 31, 2012 primarily increased as a result of 268 post-acute/skilled nursing leased properties classified as dfls that were acquired on april 7, 2011 from hcr manorcare (see notes 3 and 6 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the hcr manorcare acquisition and net investments in dfls, respectively, and discussion regarding our share in the earnings of our interest in hcr manorcare below under the caption "equity income from unconsolidated joint ventures"). 55 table of contents life science results are as of and for the year ended december 31, 2012 and 2011 (dollars and square feet in thousands, except per sq. ft. data): spp total portfolio 2012 2011 change 2012 2011 change rental and related revenues $ 243,469 $ 244,401 $ (932 ) $ 246,811 $ 245,942 $ 869 tenant recoveries 42,164 41,882 282 42,853 42,209 644 total revenues $ 285,633 $ 286,283 $ (650 ) $ 289,664 $ 288,151 $ 1,513 operating expenses (47,913 ) (49,123 ) 1,210 (53,173 ) (52,796 ) (377 ) noi $ 237,720 $ 237,160 $ 560 $ 236,491 $ 235,355 $ 1,136 straight-line rents (8,590 ) (14,685 ) 6,095 (9,730 ) (14,971 ) 5,241 amortization of above and below market lease intangibles, net 462 (1,066 ) 1,528 411 (1,123 ) 1,534 lease termination fees (175 ) (7,011 ) 6,836 (175 ) (7,011 ) 6,836 adjusted noi $ 229,417 $ 214,398 $ 15,019 $ 226,997 $ 212,250 $ 14,747 adjusted noi % change 7.0 % property count 101 101 109 104 average occupancy 91.4 % 90.5 % 89.6 % 89.6 % average occupied square feet 6,108 6,050 6,250 6,076 average annual rent per occupied sq. ft. $ 45 $ 44 $ 45 $ 44 spp and total portfolio noi and adjusted noi. noi increased primarily as a result of lease expansions and extensions and a decline in non-reimbursable operating expenses, partially offset by a decline in lease termination fees. adjusted noi increased primarily as a result of a $4 million rent payment in connection with a february 2012 amendment to a lease, annual rent escalations, lease expansions and extensions, and a decline in non-reimbursable operating expenses. during the year ended december 31, 2012, 978,000 square feet of new and renewal leases commenced at an average annual base rent of $21.71 per square foot compared to 776,000 square feet of expiring and terminated leases with an average annual base rent of $24.23 per square foot. during the year ended december 31, 2012, we acquired 77,000 square feet with an average annual base rent of $9.79 per square foot. 56 table of contents medical office results are as of and for the year ended december 31, 2012 and 2011 (dollars and square feet in thousands, except per sq. ft. data): spp total portfolio 2012 2011 (1) change 2012 2011 (1) change rental and related revenues $ 269,230 $ 264,108 $ 5,122 $ 283,561 $ 270,619 $ 12,942 tenant recoveries 45,478 46,183 (705 ) 49,447 47,749 1,698 total revenues $ 314,708 $ 310,291 $ 4,417 $ 333,008 $ 318,368 $ 14,640 operating expenses (119,316 ) (118,776 ) (540 ) (132,132 ) (127,784 ) (4,348 ) noi $ 195,392 $ 191,515 $ 3,877 $ 200,876 $ 190,584 $ 10,292 straight-line rents (4,206 ) (5,615 ) 1,409 (5,258 ) (5,834 ) 576 amortization of above and below market lease intangibles, net 358 384 (26 ) 457 (130 ) 587 lease termination fees (314 ) (314 ) (314 ) (212 ) (102 ) adjusted noi $ 191,230 $ 186,284 $ 4,946 $ 195,761 $ 184,408 $ 11,353 adjusted noi % change 2.7 % property count 182 182 206 186 average occupancy 91.3 % 90.8 % 91.2 % 90.9 % average occupied square feet 11,494 11,411 12,147 11,721 average annual rent per occupied sq. ft. $ 27 $ 27 $ 27 $ 27 (1) from our past presentation of spp for the year ended december 31, 2011, we removed (i) three mobs that were sold or classified as held for sale; and (ii) three mobs that were placed into redevelopment in 2012, which no longer meet our criteria for spp as of the date they were placed into redevelopment. spp noi and adjusted noi. spp noi and adjusted noi increased year-over-year primarily as a result of rent escalations and an increase in medical office occupancy. total portfolio noi and adjusted noi. including the impact of our spp, our total portfolio noi and adjusted noi increased primarily as a result of the additive effect of our mob acquisitions during 2012. during the year ended december 31, 2012, 2.2 million square feet of new and renewal leases commenced at an average annual base rent of $21.94 per square foot compared to 2.1 million square feet of expiring and terminated leases with an average annual base rent of $22.43 per square foot. during the year ended december 31, 2012, we acquired 1.1 million square feet with an average annual base rent of $22.19 per square foot. 57 table of contents hospital results are as of and for the year ended december 31, 2012 and 2011 (dollars in thousands, except per bed data): spp total portfolio 2012 2011 (1) change 2012 2011 (1) change rental and related revenues $ 74,815 $ 73,534 $ 1,281 $ 77,872 $ 76,691 $ 1,181 tenant recoveries 2,326 2,297 29 2,326 2,296 30 total revenues $ 77,141 $ 75,831 $ 1,310 $ 80,198 $ 78,987 $ 1,211 operating expenses (3,506 ) (4,328 ) 822 (3,513 ) (4,330 ) 817 noi $ 73,635 $ 71,503 $ 2,132 $ 76,685 $ 74,657 $ 2,028 straight-line rents (554 ) (882 ) 328 (1,134 ) (1,503 ) 369 amortization of above and below market lease intangibles, net (347 ) (347 ) (447 ) (447 ) adjusted noi $ 72,734 $ 70,274 $ 2,460 $ 75,104 $ 72,707 $ 2,397 adjusted noi % change 3.5 % property count 14 14 15 15 average capacity (beds) (2) 2,056 2,053 2,087 2,084 average annual rent per bed $ 37,091 $ 36,347 $ 37,679 $ 36,974 (1) from our past presentation of spp for the year ended december 31, 2011, we removed two hospital properties from spp that were sold or classified as held for sale. (2) represents average capacity as reported by the respective tenants or operators for the twelve month period and a quarter in arrears from the periods presented. certain operators in our hospital portfolio are not required under their respective leases to provide operational data. spp and total portfolio noi and adjusted noi. noi and adjusted noi increased for the year ended december 31, 2012 primarily as a result of rent escalations and the new leases that commenced in 2012 for two of our hospitals. other income and expense items interest income. interest income decreased $75 million to $25 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. the decrease was primarily the result of the following: (i) a decrease of $54 million in income earned from and due to the settlement of our hcr manorcare debt investments in 2011 and (ii) a decrease of $43 million in income earned from and as a result of prepayment premiums and unamortized discounts recognized in april 2011 upon the early repayment of our loans to genesis healthcare. the decreases in interest income were partially offset by $19 million of interest earned from our loan and senior unsecured notes investments in 2012 (see notes 7 and 10, respectively, to the consolidated financial statements for additional information). interest expense. for the year ended december 31, 2012, interest expense increased $717,000 to $416 million. the increase was primarily due to an increase of $13 million resulting from our senior unsecured notes offerings, net of related maturities of certain senior unsecured notes during 2011 and 2012. the increase was offset by the $11 million write-off of unamortized loan fees related to a terminated bridge loan commitment in 2011 and a decrease resulting from the payoff of certain mortgage debt during 2011. 58 table of contents our exposure to expense fluctuations related to our variable rate indebtedness is substantially mitigated by our interest r ate swap contracts. for a more detailed discussion of our interest rate risk, see "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" in item 7a. the table below sets forth information with respect to our debt, excluding premiums and discounts (dollars in thousands): as of december 31, (1) 2012 2011 balance: fixed rate $ 8,606,075 $ 7,166,349 variable rate 40,385 502,919 total $ 8,646,460 $ 7,669,268 percent of total debt: fixed rate 99.5 % 93.4 % variable rate 0.5 6.6 total 100 % 100 % weighted average interest rate at end of period: fixed rate 5.23 % 5.83 % variable rate 1.49 % 2.19 % total weighted average rate 5.22 % 5.59 % (1) excludes $82 million and $88 million at december 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, of other debt that represents non-interest bearing life care bonds and occupancy fee deposits at certain of our senior housing facilities, which have no scheduled maturities. at december 31, 2012, $86 million of variable-rate mortgages and &pound;137 million ($223 million) term loan are presented as fixed-rate debt as the interest payments under such debt have been swapped (pay fixed and receive float). at december 31, 2011, $88 million of variable-rate mortgages are presented as fixed-rate debt as the interest payments under such debt have been swapped (pay fixed and receive float); the interest rates for swapped debt are presented at the swapped rates. depreciation and amortization expense. depreciation and amortization expenses increased $8 million to $354 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. the increase was primarily the result of additive effects of our acquisitions during 2011 and 2012. general and administrative expenses. general and administrative expenses decreased $17 million to $79 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. the decrease was primarily due to an insurance recovery of $7 million during 2012 for previously incurred legal expenses and a decrease of $8 million in acquisition costs incurred during 2012 compared to similar costs incurred during 2011. litigation settlement and provision. on november 9, 2011, we entered into an agreement with ventas to settle all remaining claims relating to ventas's litigation against us arising out of ventas's 2007 acquisition of sunrise senior living reit. as part of the settlement, we paid $125 million to ventas, which resulted in a charge for the same amount (see the information set forth under the heading "legal proceedings" of note 12 to the consolidated financial statements). no similar charges were recognized during the year ended december 31, 2012. impairments. during the year ended december 31, 2012, we recognized an impairment of $8 million as a result of the disposition of a life science land parcel (see note 17 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information). during the year ended december 31, 2011, we recognized an impairment of $15 million related to a senior secured term loan as a result of concluding that the carrying value of the loan was in excess of the fair value of the related collateral supporting the loan (see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information). 59 table of contents other income, net. for the year ended december 31, 2012, other income, net decreased $10 million to $3 million. the decrease was primarily the result of a gain of $8 million resulting from our acquisition of our partner's 65% interest in and consolidation of hcp ventures ii in january 2011 (see note 8 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information) and $6 million received in connection with a litigation settlement in june 2011 that represents proceeds owed to us from a prior sale of assets. no similar gain upon consolidation was recognized or settlements were received during the year ended december 31, 2012. the decreases were partially offset by a $5 million charge during the year ended december 31, 2011 for an other-than-temporary impairment of marketable equity securities. income taxes. for the year ended december 31, 2012, income taxes decreased $3 million to a benefit of $2 million. the decrease in income taxes was primarily due to the tax benefit resulting from declines in taxable income of our trs entities during the year ended december 31, 2012. equity income from unconsolidated joint ventures. equity income from unconsolidated joint ventures is primarily the result of our equity interest in hcr manorcare. the october 2011 cms reduction of skilled nursing reimbursements under resource utilization group-version 4 ("rugs-iv"), together with changes in requirements for the delivery of group therapy services, reduced hcr manorcare's revenues and increased its therapy costs in 2012. hcr manorcare partially mitigated these adverse impacts through a cost reduction program. further, hcr manorcare experienced increased exposure to general and professional liability claims resulting in higher charges in 2012, which, together with the circumstances discussed above, reduced our share in the earnings from our equity interest in hcr manorcare. during the year ended december 31, 2012, equity income from unconsolidated joint ventures increased $8 million to $54 million. this increase primarily was the result of the full-year share of earnings from our interest in hcr manorcare, inc. compared to a partial-year in 2011 (see notes 3 and 8 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information). our share of earnings from hcr manorcare (equity income) increases for the corresponding reduction of related lease expense recognized at the hcr manorcare level. discontinued operations. income from discontinued operations for the year ended december 31, 2012 was $46 million, compared to $18 million for the comparable period in 2011. the increase is primarily due to an increase in gains on real estate dispositions of $28 million, partially offset by a decline in operating income from discontinued operations of $1 million. during the year ended december 31, 2012, we sold real estate investments for $151 million, compared to $19 million for the year ended december 31, 2011. liquidity and capital resources our principal liquidity needs are to: (i) fund recurring operating expenses, (ii) meet debt service requirements, including $487 million of senior unsecured notes and $180 million of mortgage debt principal payments and maturities in 2014, (iii) fund capital expenditures, including tenant improvements and leasing costs, (iv) fund acquisition and development activities, and (v) make dividend distributions. we anticipate that cash flow from continuing operations over the next 12 months will be adequate to fund our business operations, debt service payments, recurring capital expenditures and cash dividends to stockholders. capital requirements relating to maturing indebtedness, acquisitions, development and redevelopment activities may require funding from borrowings and/or equity and debt offerings. access to capital markets impacts our cost of capital and ability to refinance maturing indebtedness, as well as our ability to fund future acquisitions and development through the issuance of additional securities or secured debt. credit ratings impact our ability to access capital and directly 60 table of contents impact our cost of capital as well. for example, as noted below, our revolving line of credit facility accrues interest at a rate per annum equal to libor plus a margin that depends upon our debt ratings. we also pay a facility fee on the entire revolving commitment that depends upon our debt ratings. as of january 31, 2014, we had a credit rating of bbb+ from fitch, baa1 from moody's and bbb+ from s&amp;p on our senior unsecured debt securities. net cash provided by operating activities was $1.1 billion and $1.0 billion for the year ended december 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. the increase in operating cash flows is primarily the result of the following: (i) the impact of our investments in 2012 and 2013, (ii) assets placed in service during 2012 and 2013 and (iii) rent escalations and resets in 2012 and 2013, which increases were partially offset by increased debt interest payments. our cash flows from operations are dependent upon the occupancy level of multi-tenant buildings, rental rates on leases, our tenants' performance on their lease obligations, the level of operating expenses and other factors. the following are significant investing and financing activities for the year ended december 31, 2013: made investments of $223 million (loans, development and acquisition of real estate), net of loan repayments of $263 million and real estate sales of $96 million; paid dividends on common stock of $957 million, which were generally funded by cash provided by our operating activities; repaid $852 million of mortgages and senior unsecured notes; and raised $800 million in senior unsecured notes. debt bank line of credit and term loan. our $1.5 billion unsecured revolving line of credit facility matures in march 2016 and contains a one-year extension option. borrowings under the facility accrue interest at libor plus a margin that depends upon our debt ratings. we pay a facility fee on the entire revolving commitment that depends on our debt ratings. based on our debt ratings at january 31, 2014, the margin on the facility was 1.075%, and the facility fee was 0.175%. the facility also includes a feature that will allow us to increase the borrowing capacity by an aggregate amount of up to $500 million, subject to securing additional commitments from existing lenders or new lending institutions. at december 31, 2013, we had no balance outstanding under this facility. on july 30, 2012, we entered into a credit agreement with a syndicate of banks for a &pound;137 million ($227 million at december 31, 2013) four-year unsecured term loan (the "term loan") that accrues interest at a rate of gbp libor plus 1.20%, based on our current debt ratings. concurrent with the closing of the term loan, we entered into a four-year interest rate swap contract that fixes the rate of the term loan at 1.81%, subject to adjustments based on our debt ratings. the term loan contains a one-year committed extension option. the term loan was used to finance the purchase of our gbp denominated senior unsecured notes (see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information). the facility and term loan contain certain financial restrictions and other customary requirements. among other things, these covenants, using terms defined in the agreements, (i) limit the ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to consolidated total asset value to 60%, (ii) limit the ratio of secured debt to consolidated total asset value to 30%, (iii) limit the ratio of unsecured debt to consolidated unencumbered asset value to 60%, (iv) require a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.5 times and (v) require a formula-determined minimum consolidated tangible net worth of $9.2 billion at december 31, 2013. at december 31, 2013, we were in compliance with each of these restrictions and requirements of the facility and term loan. 61 table of contents our facility also contains cross-default provisions to other indebtedness of ours, including in some instances, certain mortgages on our properties. certain mortgages contain default provisions relating to defaults under the leases or operating agreements on the applicable properties by our operators or tenants, including default provisions relating to the bankruptcy filings of such operator or tenant. although we believe that we would be able to secure amendments under the applicable agreements if a default as described above occurs, such a default may result in significantly less favorable borrowing terms than currently available, material delays in the availability of funding or other material adverse consequences. senior unsecured notes. at december 31, 2013, we had senior unsecured notes outstanding with an aggregate principal balance of $7.0 billion. interest rates on the notes ranged from 1.21% to 6.98% with a weighted average effective interest rate of 4.97% and a weighted average maturity of six years at december 31, 2013. the senior unsecured notes contain certain covenants including limitations on debt, maintenance of unencumbered assets, cross-acceleration provisions and other customary terms. at december 31, 2013, we believe we were in compliance with these covenants. mortgage debt. at december 31, 2013, we had $1.4 billion in aggregate principal amount of mortgage debt outstanding that is secured by 126 healthcare facilities (including redevelopment properties) with a carrying value of $1.8 billion. interest rates on the mortgage debt ranged from 0.69% to 8.69% with a weighted average effective interest rate of 6.19% and a weighted average maturity of three years at december 31, 2013. mortgage debt generally requires monthly principal and interest payments, is collateralized by real estate assets and is generally non-recourse. mortgage debt typically restricts transfer of the encumbered assets, prohibits additional liens, restricts prepayment, requires payment of real estate taxes, requires maintenance of the assets in good condition, requires maintenance of insurance on the assets and includes conditions to obtain lender consent to enter into and terminate material leases. some of the mortgage debt is also cross-collateralized by multiple assets and may require tenants or operators to maintain compliance with the applicable leases or operating agreements of such real estate assets. other debt. at december 31, 2013, we had $75 million of non-interest bearing life care bonds at two of our continuing care retirement communities and non-interest bearing occupancy fee deposits at two of our senior housing facilities, all of which were payable to certain residents of the facilities (collectively, "life care bonds"). the life care bonds are generally refundable to the residents upon the termination of the contract or upon the successful resale of the unit. 62 table of contents debt maturities the following table summarizes our stated debt maturities and scheduled principal repayments at december 31, 2013 (in thousands): year term loan (1) senior unsecured notes mortgage total (2) 2014 $ $ 487,000 $ 179,525 $ 666,525 2015 400,000 308,421 708,421 2016 226,858 900,000 291,738 1,418,596 2017 750,000 550,477 1,300,477 2018 600,000 6,583 606,583 thereafter 3,850,000 65,242 3,915,242 226,858 6,987,000 1,401,986 8,615,844 discounts, net (23,625 ) (5,501 ) (29,126 ) $ 226,858 $ 6,963,375 $ 1,396,485 $ 8,586,718 (1) represents &pound;137 million translated into u.s. dollars as of december 31, 2013. (2) excludes $75 million of other debt that represents life care bonds that have no scheduled maturities. derivative financial instruments. we use derivative instruments to mitigate the effects of interest rate and foreign exchange fluctuations on specific forecasted transactions as well as recognized financial obligations or assets. we do not use derivative instruments for speculative or trading purposes. the following table summarizes our outstanding interest-rate and foreign currency swap contracts as of december 31, 2013 (dollars and gbp in thousands): date entered maturity date hedge designation fixed rate/buy amount floating/exchange rate index notional/sell amount fair value july 2005 (1) july 2020 cash flow 3.82 % bma swap index $ 45,600 $ (5,681 ) november 2008 october 2016 cash flow 5.95 % 1 month libor+1.50% $ 26,400 (2,703 ) july 2012 june 2016 cash flow 1.81 % 1 month gbp libor+1.20% &pound; 137,000 2,325 july 2012 (2) june 2016 cash flow $ 56,800 buy usd/sell gbp &pound; 36,200 (2,756 ) (1) represents three interest-rate swap contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $45.6 million which hedge fluctuations in interest payments on variable-rate secured debt due to overall changes in hedged cash flows. (2) currency swap contract (buy usd/sell gbp) hedges the foreign currency exchange risk related to a portion of our forecasted interest receipts on gbp denominated senior unsecured notes. represents five foreign exchange contracts to sell &pound;7.2 million at a rate of 1.5695 on various dates through june 2016. for a more detailed description of our derivative financial instruments, see note 24 to the consolidated financial statements and "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" in item 7a. equity at december 31, 2013, we had 457.0 million shares of common stock outstanding. at december 31, 2013, equity totaled $10.9 billion, and our equity securities had a market value of $16.8 billion. as of december 31, 2013, there were a total of 4 million downreit units outstanding in four limited liability companies in which we are the managing member. the downreit units are 63 table of contents exchangeable for an amount of cash approximating the then-current market value of shares of our common stock or, at our option, shares of our common stock (subject to certain adjustments, such as stock splits and reclassifications). shelf registration we have a prospectus that we filed with the sec as part of a registration statement on form s-3asr, using a shelf registration process which expires in july 2015. under the "shelf" process, we have the option to sell any one or a combination of the securities described in the prospectus in one or more offerings. the securities described in the prospectus include common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares, debt securities and warrants. non-gaap financial measure funds from operations ("ffo") we believe ffo applicable to common shares, diluted ffo applicable to common shares, and basic and diluted ffo per common share are important supplemental non-gaap measures of operating performance for a reit. because the historical cost accounting convention used for real estate assets utilizes straight-line depreciation (except on land), such accounting presentation implies that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. since real estate values instead have historically risen and fallen with market conditions, presentations of operating results for a reit that uses historical cost accounting for depreciation could be less informative. the term ffo was designed by the reit industry to address this issue. ffo as defined by the national association of real estate investment trusts ("nareit") is net income applicable to common shares (computed in accordance with gaap), excluding gains or losses from acquisition and dispositions of depreciable real estate or related interests, impairments of, or related to, depreciable real estate, plus real estate and dfl depreciation and amortization, with adjustments for joint ventures. adjustments for joint ventures are calculated to reflect ffo on the same basis. ffo does not represent cash generated from operating activities in accordance with gaap, is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund cash needs and should not be considered an alternative to net income. we compute ffo in accordance with the current nareit definition; however, other reits may report ffo differently or have a different interpretation of the current nareit definition from ours. in addition, we present ffo before the impact of severance-related charges, litigation settlement charges, preferred stock redemption charges, impairments (recoveries) of non-depreciable assets and merger-related items (defined below) ("ffo as adjusted"). management believes ffo as adjusted is a useful alternative measurement. this measure is a modification of the nareit definition of ffo and should not be used as an alternative to net income (determined in accordance with gaap). details of certain items that affect comparability are discussed under results of operations above. the following is a reconciliation from net income applicable to common shares, the most direct 64 table of contents comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with gaap, to ffo and ffo as adjusted (in thousands, except per share data): year ended december 31, 2013 2012 2011 net income applicable to common shares $ 969,103 $ 812,289 $ 515,302 depreciation and amortization of real estate, in-place lease and other intangibles: continuing operations 423,312 353,704 346,055 discontinued operations 5,862 12,808 11,340 impairments of real estate 1,372 dfl depreciation 14,326 12,756 8,840 gain on sales of real estate (69,866 ) (31,454 ) (3,107 ) gain upon consolidation of joint venture (7,769 ) equity income from unconsolidated joint ventures (64,433 ) (54,455 ) (46,750 ) ffo from unconsolidated joint ventures 74,324 64,933 56,887 noncontrolling interests' and participating securities' share in earnings 15,903 17,547 18,062 noncontrolling interests' and participating securities' share in ffo (20,639 ) (21,620 ) (20,953 ) ffo applicable to common shares $ 1,349,264 $ 1,166,508 $ 877,907 distributions on dilutive convertible units 13,276 13,028 6,916 diluted ffo applicable to common shares $ 1,362,540 $ 1,179,536 $ 884,823 diluted ffo per common share $ 2.95 $ 2.72 $ 2.19 weighted average shares used to calculate diluted ffo per common share 461,710 434,328 403,864 diluted earnings per common share $ 2.13 $ 1.90 $ 1.29 depreciation and amortization of real estate, in-place lease and other intangibles 0.93 0.85 0.89 impairments on real estate and dfl depreciation 0.03 0.03 0.02 gain on sales of real estate and upon consolidation of joint venture (0.15 ) (0.07 ) (0.03 ) joint venture and participating securities ffo adjustments 0.01 0.01 0.02 diluted ffo per common share $ 2.95 $ 2.72 $ 2.19 impact of adjustments to ffo: severance-related charges (1) $ 27,244 $ $ 4,827 preferred stock redemption charge (2) 10,432 litigation settlement and provision charges (3) 125,000 merger-related items (4) 5,642 26,596 impairments (5) 7,878 15,400 $ 27,244 $ 23,952 $ 171,823 65 table of contents year ended december 31, 2013 2012 2011 ffo as adjusted applicable to common shares $ 1,376,508 $ 1,190,460 $ 1,049,730 distributions on dilutive convertible units and other 13,220 12,957 11,633 diluted ffo as adjusted applicable to common shares $ 1,389,728 $ 1,203,417 $ 1,061,363 diluted ffo as adjusted per common share $ 3.01 $ 2.78 $ 2.70 weighted average shares used to calculate diluted ffo as adjusted per common share (6) 461,710 433,607 393,237 (1) our board of directors terminated our former chairman, chief executive officer and president on october 2, 2013. as a result of the termination, we incurred severance-related charges of $27.2 million that include: (i) the acceleration of $16.7 million of deferred compensation for restricted stock units and options that vested upon termination; and (ii) severance payments and other costs of approximately $10.5 million. see note 16 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. (2) in connection with the redemption of our preferred stock, during the year ended december 31, 2012, we incurred a redemption charge of $10.4 million related to the original issuance costs. (3) the litigation settlement charge during the year ended december 31, 2011 relates to the ventas settlement. (4) the year ended december 31, 2012 merger-related items of $0.02 per share attributable to the senior housing portfolio acquisition include direct transaction costs and the impact of the negative carry of prefunding the transaction with the $1.0 billion, or 22 million shares, common stock offering completed on october 19, 2012 on the calculation of weighted average shares. proceeds from this offering were used to fund the senior housing portfolio acquisition. merger-related items for the year ended december 31, 2011 are attributable to our hcr manorcare acquisition (incurred from january 1st through april 6th 2011), which include the following: (i) $26.8 million of direct transaction costs, (ii) $23.9 million of interest expense associated with the $2.4 billion senior unsecured notes issued on january 24, 2011, proceeds from which were obtained to prefund the hcr manorcare acquisition, partially offset by (iii) $24.1 million of income related to gains upon the reinvestment of the our debt investment in hcr manorcare and other miscellaneous items. (5) the following impairments, net of recoveries had an impact on ffo: the impairment charge during the year ended december 31, 2012 relates to the sale of a land parcel in our life science segment. the impairment charge during the year ended december 31, 2011 relates to our senior secured loan to delphis. (6) our weighted average shares used to calculate diluted ffo as adjusted eliminate the impact of 30 million shares from our march 2011 common stock offering (excludes 4.5 million shares sold to the underwriters upon exercise of their option to purchase additional shares), which issuance increased our weighted average shares by 12.9 million for the year ended december 31, 2011. proceeds from this offering were used to fund a portion of the cash consideration for the hcr manorcare acquisition. off-balance sheet arrangements we own interests in certain unconsolidated joint ventures as described under note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. except in limited circumstances, our risk of loss is limited to our investment in the joint venture and any outstanding loans receivable. in addition, we have certain properties which serve as collateral for debt that is owed by a previous owner of certain of our facilities, as described under note 12 to the consolidated financial statements. our risk of loss for these certain properties is limited to the outstanding debt balance plus penalties, if any. we have no other material off-balance sheet arrangements that we expect would materially affect our liquidity and capital resources except those described below under contractual obligations . 66 table of contents contractual obligations the following table summarizes our material contractual payment obligations and commitments at december 31, 2013 (in thousands): total (1) less than one year 2015-2016 2017-2018 more than five years term loan (2) $ 226,858 $ $ 226,858 $ $ senior unsecured notes 6,987,000 487,000 1,300,000 1,350,000 3,850,000 mortgage debt 1,401,986 179,525 600,159 557,060 65,242 construction loan commitments (3) 31,108 14,533 16,575 development commitments (4) 20,708 20,708 ground and other operating leases 220,126 6,303 10,400 7,540 195,883 interest (5) 2,473,701 409,437 713,135 449,224 901,905 total $ 11,361,487 $ 1,117,506 $ 2,867,127 $ 2,363,824 $ 5,013,030 (1) excludes $75 million of other debt that represents life care bonds that have no scheduled maturities. (2) represents &pound;137 million translated into u.s. dollars as of december 31, 2013. (3) represents commitments to finance development projects and related working capital financings. (4) represents construction and other commitments for developments in progress. (5) interest on variable-rate debt is calculated using rates in effect at december 31, 2013. inflation our leases often provide for either fixed increases in base rents or indexed escalators, based on the consumer price index or other measures, and/or additional rent based on increases in the tenants' operating revenues. most of our mob leases require the tenant to pay a share of property operating costs such as real estate taxes, insurance and utilities. substantially all of our senior housing, life science, post-acute/skilled nursing and hospital leases require the operator or tenant to pay all of the property operating costs or reimburse us for all such costs. we believe that inflationary increases in expenses will be offset, in part, by the operator or tenant expense reimbursements and contractual rent increases described above. recent accounting pronouncements see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for the impact of new accounting standards. there were no accounting pronouncements that were issued, but not yet adopted by us, that we believe will materially impact our consolidated financial statements. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we use derivative financial instruments in the normal course of business to mitigate interest rate and foreign currency risk. we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. derivatives are recorded on the consolidated balance sheets at their fair value. see note 24 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. to illustrate the effect of movements in the interest rate and foreign currency markets, we performed a market sensitivity analysis on our hedging instruments. we applied various basis point spreads to the underlying interest rate curves and foreign currency exchange rates of the derivative portfolio in order to determine the instruments' change in fair value. assuming a one percentage point change in the underlying interest rate curve and foreign currency exchange rates, the estimated change 67 table of contents in fair value of each of the underlying derivative instruments would not exceed $6 million. see note 24 to the consolidated financial statements for additional analysis details. interest rate risk. at december 31, 2013, we are exposed to market risks related to fluctuations in interest rates on the following: (i) properties with a gross value of $83 million that are subject to leases where the payments fluctuate with changes in libor that are partially offset by (ii) $25 million of variable-rate senior unsecured notes and (iii) $9 million of variable-rate mortgage debt payable (excludes $72 million of variable-rate mortgage notes that have been hedged through interest-rate swap contracts) . additionally, our exposure to market risks related to fluctuations in interest rates excludes our gbp denominated $227 million (&pound;137 million) variable-rate term loan that has been hedged through interest-rate swap contracts. interest rate fluctuations will generally not affect our future earnings or cash flows on our fixed rate debt and assets unless such instruments mature or are otherwise terminated. however, interest rate changes will affect the fair value of our fixed rate instruments. conversely, changes in interest rates on variable rate debt and investments would change our future earnings and cash flows, but not significantly affect the fair value of those instruments. assuming a one percentage point increase in the interest rate related to the variable-rate investments and variable-rate debt, and assuming no other changes in the outstanding balance as of december 31, 2013, our annual interest expense would increase by approximately $1 million, or less than $0.01 per common share on a diluted basis. foreign currency exchange rate risk. at december 31, 2013, our exposure to foreign currency exchange rates relates to forecasted interest receipts from our gbp denominated senior unsecured notes (see additional discussion of the four seasons senior unsecured notes in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements). our foreign currency exchange exposure is mitigated by the forecasted interest and principal payments from our gbp denominated unsecured term loan (see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information), and a foreign currency swap contract for approximately 85% of the forecasted interest receipts from our four seasons senior unsecured notes through their non-call period, which ends on june 15, 2016. market risk. we have investments in marketable debt securities classified as held-to-maturity, because we have the positive intent and ability to hold the securities to maturity. held-to-maturity securities are recorded at amortized cost and adjusted for the amortization of premiums and discounts through maturity. we consider a variety of factors in evaluating an other-than-temporary decline in value, such as: the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been less than our current adjusted carrying value; the issuer's financial condition, capital strength and near-term prospects; any recent events specific to that issuer and economic conditions of its industry; and our investment horizon in relationship to an anticipated near-term recovery in the market value, if any. at december 31, 2013, the fair value and carrying value of marketable debt securities were $281 million and $244 million, respectively. the principal amount and the average interest rates for our loans receivable and debt categorized by maturity dates is presented in the table below. the fair value for our senior unsecured notes payable is based on prevailing market prices. the fair value estimates for loans receivable and mortgage debt 68 table of contents payable are based on discounting future cash flows utilizing current rates for loans and debt of the same type and remaining maturity. maturity 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 thereafter total fair value (dollars in thousands) assets: loans receivable (usd) $ 18,070 (1) $ $ 107,314 $ 236,281 $ 5,960 $ $ 367,625 $ 373,441 weighted average interest rate 14.00 % % 7.82 % 12.32 % 8.00 % % 11.02 % debt securities held-for-sale (usd) $ $ $ 16,771 $ $ $ $ 16,771 $ 16,994 weighted average interest rate % % 4.43 % % % % 4.43 % debt securities held-for-sale (gbp) $ $ $ 215,109 $ $ $ $ 215,109 $ 263,856 weighted average interest rate % % 12.25 % % % % 12.25 % liabilities (2) : variable-rate debt: term loan (gbp) $ $ $ 226,858 $ $ $ $ 226,858 $ 226,858 weighted average interest rate % % 2.00 % % % % 2.00 % senior unsecured notes payable (usd) $ 25,000 $ $ $ $ $ $ 25,000 $ 24,978 weighted average interest rate 1.21 % % % % % % 1.21 % mortgage debt payable (usd) $ 455 $ 8,500 $ $ $ $ $ 8,955 $ 8,111 weighted average interest rate 2.61 % 0.80 % % % % % 0.89 % fixed-rate debt: senior unsecured notes payable (usd) $ 462,000 $ 400,000 $ 900,000 $ 750,000 $ 600,000 $ 3,850,000 $ 6,962,000 $ 7,380,839 weighted average interest rate 3.32 % 6.57 % 5.10 % 6.03 % 6.83 % 4.50 % 4.98 % mortgage debt payable (usd) $ 179,071 $ 299,920 $ 291,738 $ 550,477 $ 6,583 $ 65,242 $ 1,393,031 $ 1,413,103 weighted average interest rate 5.76 % 5.86 % 6.45 % 5.68 % 5.91 % 4.51 % 6.22 % interest-rate derivatives assets (liabilities): variable-rate debt: variable to fixed (usd) $ $ $ (2,703 ) $ $ $ (5,681 ) $ (8,384 ) $ (8,384 ) weighted average pay rate % % 5.95 % % % 3.82 % 4.51 % weighted average receive rate % % 3.34 % % % 4.00 % 3.79 % variable to fixed (gbp) $ $ $ 2,325 $ $ $ $ 2,325 $ 2,325 weighted average pay rate % % 1.81 % % % % 1.81 % weighted average receive rate % % 3.22 % % % % 3.22 % (1) effective january 1, 2011, a senior secured loan to delphis was placed on non-accrual status. for additional information regarding the senior secured loan to delphis see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. (2) excludes $75 million of other debt that represents non-interest bearing life care bonds and occupancy fee deposits at certain of our senior housing facilities, which have no scheduled maturities.risk factors 19 item 1b. unresolved staff comments 23 item 2. properties 23 item 3. legal proceedings 26 item 4. submission of matters to a vote of security holders 26 part ii item 5. market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities 27 item 6. selected financial data 30 item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations 31 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 44 item 8. financial statements and supplementary data 45 item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosures 46 item 9a. controls and procedures 46 part iii item 10. directors and executive officers of the registrant 48 item 11. executive compensation 48 item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters 48 item 13. certain relationships and related transactions 48 item 14. principal accountant fees and services 49 item 15. exhibits, financial statements and financial statement schedules 49 part i item 1. business business overview health care property investors, inc., together with its consolidated subsidiaries and joint ventures (collectively, hcp or the company ), invests primarily in real estate serving the healthcare industry in the united states. health care property investors, inc. is a maryland real estate investment trust ( reit ) organized in 1985. the company is headquartered in long beach, california, with operations in nashville, tennessee, and its portfolio includes interests in 527 properties in 42 states. the company acquires healthcare facilities and leases them to healthcare providers and provides mortgage financing secured by healthcare facilities. the company portfolio includes: (i) senior housing, including independent living facilities ( ilfs ), assisted living facilities ( alfs ), and continuing care retirement communities ( ccrcs ); (ii) medical office buildings ( mobs ); (iii) hospitals; (iv) skilled nursing facilities ( snfs ); and (v) other healthcare facilities, including laboratory and office buildings. for business segment financial data, see our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. references herein to hcp, the company, we, us and our include health care property investors, inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries and joint ventures, unless the context otherwise requires. on our internet website, www.hcpi.com, you can access, free of charge, our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, and current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the securities and exchange commission ( sec ). in addition, the sec maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including hcp, that file electronically with the sec at www.sec.gov. healthcare industry healthcare is the single largest industry in the united states, representing 15.3% of u.s. gross domestic product ( gdp ) in 2003 and growing at a rate faster than the overall economy. healthcare expenditures rising as a percentage of gdp source: centers for medicare and medicaid, december 2005. compound annual growth rate ( cagr ) 2 the delivery of healthcare services requires real estate and as a consequence, healthcare providers depend on real estate to maintain and grow their businesses. hcp believes that the current healthcare real estate market provides an investment opportunity for investors based on: likelihood of consolidation of the fragmented healthcare real estate sector; specialized nature of healthcare real estate investing; and compelling demographics driving the demand for healthcare services. senior citizens are the largest consumers of healthcare services. according to the centers for medicare and medicaid, on a per capita basis, the 75 years and older segment of the population spends 75% more on healthcare than the 65 to 74-year-old segment and nearly 400% more than the population average. u.s. population over 65 years old source: u.s. census bureau, statistical abstract of the united states: 2004-2005. business strategy we are organized to invest in healthcare related facilities. our primary goal is to increase shareholder value through profitable growth. our investment strategy to achieve this goal is based on three principles opportunistic investing, portfolio diversification, and conservative financing. opportunistic investing we make real estate investments that are expected to drive profitable growth and create long-term shareholder value. we attempt to position ourselves to create and take advantage of situations where we believe the opportunities meet our goals and investment criteria. we invest in properties directly and through joint ventures, and provide secured financing, depending on the nature of the investment opportunity. portfolio diversification we believe in maintaining a portfolio of healthcare-related real estate diversified by sector, geography, operator and investment product. diversification within the healthcare industry reduces the likelihood that a single event would materially harm our business. this allows us to take advantage of opportunities in different markets based on individual market dynamics. while pursuing our strategy of 3 maintaining diversification in our portfolio, there are no specific limitations on the percentage of our total assets that may be invested in any one property, property type, geographic location or in the number of properties which we may invest, lease or lend to a single operator. with investments in multiple sectors of healthcare real estate, hcp can focus on opportunities with the best risk/reward profile for the portfolio as a whole, rather than having to choose from transactions within a specific property type. conservative financing we believe a conservative balance sheet provides us with the ability to execute our opportunistic investing approach and portfolio diversification principles. we maintain our conservative balance sheet by actively managing our debt to equity levels and maintaining available sources of liquidity, such as our revolving line of credit. our debt is primarily fixed rate, which reduces the impact of rising interest rates on our operations. generally, we attempt to match the long-term duration of our leases with long-term fixed rate financing. in underwriting our investments, we structure and adjust the price of the investment in accordance with our assessment of risk. we may structure transactions as master leases, require indemnifications, obtain enhancements in the form of letters of credit or security deposits, and take other measures to mitigate risk. we finance our investments based on our evaluation of available sources of funding. for short-term purposes, we may utilize our revolving line of credit or arrange for other short-term borrowings from banks or other sources. we arrange for longer-term financing through public offerings or from institutional investors. we may incur additional indebtedness or issue preferred or common stock. we may incur additional mortgage indebtedness on real estate we acquire. we may also obtain non-recourse or other mortgage financing on unleveraged properties in which we have invested or may refinance existing debt on properties acquired. competition our properties compete with the facilities of other landlords and healthcare providers. the landlords and operators of these competing properties may have capital resources substantially in excess of ours or of the operators of our facilities. the occupancy and rental income at our properties depend upon several factors, including the number of physicians using the healthcare facilities or referring patients to the facilities, competing properties and healthcare providers, and the size and composition of the population in the surrounding area. private, federal and state payment programs and the effect of laws and regulations may also have a significant influence on the profitability of the properties and their tenants. virtually all of our properties operate in a competitive environment in which tenants, patients and referral sources, including physicians, may change their preferences for a healthcare facility from time to time. investing in real estate is highly competitive. we face competition from other reits, investment companies, healthcare operators and other institutional investors when we attempt to acquire properties. increased competition reduces the number of opportunities that meet our investment criteria. if we do not identify investments that meet our investment criteria, our ability to increase shareholder value through profitable growth may be limited. 2005 overview real estate transactions during 2005, we acquired interests in properties and made secured loans aggregating $647 million with an average yield of 7.7%. our 2005 investments were made in the following healthcare sectors: (i) 62% senior housing facilities; (ii) 32% medical office buildings; and (iii) 6% hospitals. 2005 investments included the following: on april 20, 2005, we acquired five assisted living facilities for $58 million through a sale-leaseback transaction. these facilities have an initial lease term of 15 years, with two ten-year renewal options. the initial annual lease rate is 9.0% with annual escalators based on the consumer price index 4 ( cpi ) that have a floor of 2.75%. these properties are included in a master lease that has 21 properties leased to the operator. on april 28, 2005, we acquired five medical office buildings for approximately $81 million, including assumed debt valued at $29 million. the initial yield is 7.0%, with two properties currently in lease-up. the yield following lease-up is expected to be 8.2%. the medical office buildings include approximately 537,000 rentable square feet. on july 1, 2005, we acquired an assisted living facility for $16 million through a sale-leaseback transaction. the facility has an initial lease term of 15 years, with two ten-year renewal options. the initial annual lease rate is 8.75% with annual cpi-based escalators that have a floor of 2.75%. on july 22, 2005, we acquired twelve independent and assisted living facilities for approximately $252 million, including assumed debt and non-managing member llc units ( downreit units ) valued at $52 million and $19 million, respectively, through a sale-leaseback transaction. these facilities have an initial lease term of 15 years, with three ten-year renewal options. the initial annual lease rate is 7.1% with annual cpi-based escalators that have a floor of 3%. on august 31, 2005, we acquired five assisted living facilities for $41 million through a sale-leaseback transaction. these facilities have an initial lease term of 15 years, with two ten-year renewal options. the initial annual lease rate is 8.5% with annual cpi-based escalators that have a floor of 2.75%. these properties are included in a master lease that has 21 properties leased to the operator. on october 19, 2005, we acquired seven medical office buildings for $51 million, including assumed debt and downreit units valued at $24 million and $11 million, respectively. the medical office buildings include approximately 351,000 rentable square feet and have an initial yield of 8.2%. on december 22, 2005, we acquired two independent and assisted living facilities for $18 million through a sale-leaseback transaction. the facilities have an initial lease term of 15 years, with two ten-year renewal options. the initial annual lease rate is 8.5% with annual cpi-based escalators that have a floor of 2.75%. these properties are included in a master lease that has 21 properties leased to the operator. on december 23, 2005, we acquired two medical office buildings for $25 million. the medical office buildings include approximately 152,000 rentable square feet and have an initial yield of 7.4%. on december 28, 2005, we closed a $40 million loan secured by a hospital in texas. the note bears interest at 8.75% per annum. subject to certain performance conditions, we may fund an additional $10 million under the existing loan agreement. during 2005, we sold interests in 20 properties for $71 million and recognized gains of $10 million. capital markets transactions on april 27, 2005, we issued $250 million of 5.625% senior unsecured notes due 2017. the notes were priced at 99.585% of the principal amount with an effective yield of 5.673%. we received proceeds of $247 million, which were used to repay outstanding indebtedness and for general corporate purposes. on september 16, 2005, we issued $200 million of 4.875% senior unsecured notes due 2010. the notes were priced at 99.567% of the principal amount with an effective yield of 4.974%. we received net proceeds of $198 million, which were used to repay outstanding indebtedness and for general corporate purposes. during the year ended december 31, 2005, we issued approximately 878,000 shares of our common stock under our dividend reinvestment and stock purchase plan at an average price per share of $25.80 for proceeds of $23 million. 5 other events quarterly dividends paid during 2005 aggregated to $1.68 per share. on february 6, 2006, we announced that our board of directors declared a quarterly common stock cash dividend of $0.425 per share. the common stock dividend will be paid on february 23, 2006, to stockholders of record as of the close of business on february 13, 2006. this dividend equals $1.70 per share on an annualized basis. our board of directors has determined to continue its policy of considering dividend increases on an annual rather than quarterly basis. properties portfolio summary our portfolio of investments at december 31, 2005 includes direct investments in healthcare related properties, mortgage loans, and investments through joint ventures. our properties include senior housing facilities, medical office buildings, hospitals, skilled nursing facilities, and other healthcare facilities. as of and for the year ended december 31, 2005, our portfolio of investments, excluding assets held for sale and classified as discontinued operations, consists of the following (square feet and dollars in thousands): 2005 property type number of properties capacity(1) square feet investment(2) total revenues total operating expenses noi(3) owned properties: senior housing facilities 127 13,204 units 12,949 $ 1,290,169 $ 115,937 $ 8,887 $ 107,050 medical office buildings 107 6,530 sq. ft. 6,530 982,647 126,898 44,905 81,993 hospitals 26 3,269 beds 3,272 713,454 91,122 91,122 skilled nursing facilities 152 18,171 beds 5,948 650,553 87,665 87,665 other healthcare facilities 23 1,591 sq. ft. 1,591 243,166 30,623 5,191 25,432 total owned properties 435 30,290 $ 3,879,989 $ 452,245 $ 58,983 $ 393,262 mortgage loans: senior housing facilities 9 537 units 407 $ 27,816 hospitals 3 226 beds 411 96,476 skilled nursing facilities 13 1,850 beds 540 51,134 total mortgage loans 25 1,358 $ 175,426 unconsolidated joint ventures: senior housing facilities 4 412 units 235 $ 260 medical office buildings 63 4,286 sq. ft. 4,286 44,538 total unconsolidated joint ventures 67 4,521 $ 44,798 (1) senior housing facilities are stated in units (e.g., studio, one or two bedroom units). medical office buildings and other healthcare facilities are measured in square feet. hospitals and skilled nursing facilities are measured by licensed bed count. (2) investment for owned properties represents the carrying amount of real estate assets, including intangibles, after adding back accumulated depreciation and amortization, and excludes assets held for sale and classified as discontinued operations. investment for mortgage loans receivable and unconsolidated joint ventures represents the carrying amount of our investment. 6 (3) net operating income from continuing operations ( noi ) is a non-gaap supplemental financial measure used to evaluate the operating performance of real estate properties. we define noi as rental revenues, including tenant reimbursements, less property level operating expenses, which exclude depreciation and amortization, general and administrative expenses, impairments, interest expense and discontinued operations. we believe noi provides investors relevant and useful information because it measures the operating performance of our real estate at the property level on an unleveraged basis. we use noi to make decisions about resource allocations and assess property level performance. we believe that net income is the most directly comparable gaap (u.s. generally accepted accounting principals) measure to noi. noi should not be viewed as an alternative measure of operating performance to net income as defined by gaap since it does not reflect the aforementioned excluded items. further, noi may not be comparable to that of other real estate investment trusts, as they may use different methodologies for calculating noi. the following reconciles noi to net income for 2005 (in thousands): amount net operating income from continuing operations $ 393,262 equity loss from unconsolidated joint ventures (1,123 ) interest and other income 26,154 interest expense (107,201 ) depreciation and amortization (106,934 ) general and administrative expense (32,067 ) minority interests (12,950 ) total discontinued operations 13,916 net income $ 173,057 unconsolidated joint ventures the following is summarized unaudited information for our unconsolidated joint ventures as of and for the year ended december 31, 2005 (square feet and dollars in thousands): 2005 property type number of properties capacity(1) square feet joint venture investment(2) total revenues total operating expenses noi(3) senior housing facilities 4 412 units 235 $ 20,111 $ 2,205 $ 344 $ 1,861 medical office buildings 63 4,286 sq. ft. 4,286 420,703 73,786 32,666 41,120 total 67 4,521 $ 440,814 $ 75,991 $ 33,010 $ 42,981 (1) senior housing facilities are stated in units (e.g., studio, one or two bedroom units) and medical office buildings are measured in square feet. (2) represents the carrying amount of real estate assets within the joint venture, including intangibles, after adding back accumulated depreciation and amortization and excludes assets held for sale and classified as discontinued operations. (3) net operating income from continuing operations ( noi ) is a non-gaap supplemental financial measure used to evaluate the operating performance of real estate properties. we define noi as rental revenues, including tenant reimbursements, less property level operating expenses, which exclude depreciation and amortization, general and administrative expenses, impairments, interest expense and discontinued operations. we believe noi provides investors relevant and useful information because it measures the operating performance of our real estate at the property level on an unleveraged basis. we use noi to make decisions about resource allocations and assess property level performance. we believe that net income is the most directly comparable gaap measure to noi. noi should not be viewed as an alternative measure of operating performance to net income as defined by gaap since it does not reflect the aforementioned excluded items. further, noi may not be comparable to that of other real estate investment trusts, as they may use different methodologies for calculating noi. healthcare sectors and property types we have investments in senior housing facilities, medical office buildings, hospitals, skilled nursing facilities, and other healthcare facilities. certain tenants of our properties are reliant on government reimbursements, such as those from medicare and medicaid see governmental regulation for the 7 potential impact on the value of our investments and our results of operations. the following describes the nature of the operations of our tenants and borrowers. senior housing facilities. we have interests in 140 senior housing facilities, including four properties in unconsolidated joint ventures. senior housing properties include ilfs, alfs and ccrcs, which cater to different segments of the elderly population based upon their needs. services provided by our tenants in these facilities are primarily paid for by the residents directly or through private insurance and are less reliant on government reimbursement such as medicaid and medicare. independent living facilities. ilfs are designed to meet the needs of seniors who choose to live in an environment surrounded by their peers with services such as housekeeping, meals and activities. these residents generally do not need assistance with activities of daily living ( adls ), including bathing, eating and dressing; however, residents have the option to contract for these services. assisted living facilities. alfs are licensed care facilities that provide personal care services, support and housing for those who need help with adls yet require limited medical care. the programs and services may include transportation, social activities, exercise and fitness programs, beauty or barber shop access, hobby and craft activities, community excursions, meals in a dining room setting and other activities sought by residents. these facilities are often in apartment-like buildings with private residences ranging from single rooms to large apartments. certain alfs may offer higher levels of personal assistance for residents with alzheimer disease or other forms of dementia, based in part on local regulations. continuing care retirement communities. ccrcs provide housing and health-related services under long-term contracts. this alternative is appealing to residents as it eliminates the need for relocating when health and medical needs change, thus allowing residents to age in place. some ccrcs require a substantial entry fee or buy-in fee, and most also charge monthly maintenance fees in exchange for a living unit, meals and some health services. ccrcs typically require the individual to be in relatively good health and independent upon entry. medical office buildings. we have interests in 170 mobs, including 63 properties owned by hcp medical office portfolio, llc ( hcp mop ). these facilities typically contain physicians offices and examination rooms, and may also include pharmacies, hospital ancillary service space and outpatient services such as diagnostic centers, rehabilitation clinics and day-surgery operating rooms. while these facilities are similar to commercial office buildings, they require more plumbing, electrical and mechanical systems to accommodate multiple exam rooms that require sinks in every room, brighter lights and special equipment such as medical gases. hospitals. we have interests in 29 hospitals, which include 17 acute care, three long-term acute care and nine rehabilitation hospitals. services provided by our tenants in these facilities are paid for by private sources, third party payors (e.g., insurance and hmos), or through the medicare and medicaid programs. acute care hospitals. acute care hospitals offer a wide range of services such as fully-equipped operating and recovery rooms, obstetrics, radiology, intensive care, open heart surgery and coronary care, neurosurgery, neonatal intensive care, magnetic resonance imaging, nursing units, oncology, clinical laboratories, respiratory therapy, physical therapy, nuclear medicine, rehabilitation services and outpatient services. long-term acute care hospitals. long-term acute care hospitals provide care for patients with complex medical conditions that require longer stays and more intensive care, monitoring, or emergency back-up than that available in most skilled nursing-based sub-acute programs. 8 rehabilitation hospitals. rehabilitation hospitals provide inpatient and outpatient care for patients who have sustained traumatic injuries or illnesses, such as spinal cord injuries, strokes, head injuries, orthopedic problems, work-related disabilities and neurological diseases. skilled nursing facilities. we have interests in 165 snfs. snfs offer restorative, rehabilitative and custodial nursing care for people not requiring the more extensive and sophisticated treatment available at hospitals. ancillary revenues and revenue from sub-acute care services are derived from providing services to residents beyond room and board and include occupational, physical, speech, respiratory and intravenous therapy, wound care, oncology treatment, brain injury care and orthopedic therapy as well as sales of pharmaceutical products and other services. certain skilled nursing facilities provide some of the foregoing services on an out-patient basis. skilled nursing services provided by our tenants in these facilities are primarily paid for either by private sources, or through the medicare and medicaid programs. other healthcare facilities. we have investments in ten healthcare laboratory and biotech research facilities. these facilities are designed to accommodate research and development in the bio-pharmaceutical industry, drug discovery and development, and predictive and personalized medicine. we also have investments in five physician group practice clinic facilities leased to five different tenants, six health and wellness centers, and two facilities used for other healthcare purposes. the physician group practice clinics generally provide a broad range of medical services through organized physician groups representing various medical specialties. health and wellness centers provide testing and preventative health maintenance services. investment products owned and joint venture property investments as of december 31, 2005, we had investments in 527 properties, including 67 properties through joint ventures; whether owned wholly or through joint ventures, the owned properties may be characterized as one of three types: triple-net leased property, operating property or development property. triple-net leased properties: triple-net leased properties are generally single-tenant buildings leased to a healthcare provider under a triple-net lease. pursuant to triple-net leases, tenants pay base rent and additional rent to us and pay all operating expenses incurred at the property, including utilities, property taxes, insurance, and repairs and maintenance. certain leases contain annual base rent escalations based on a predetermined fixed rate, an inflation index or some other factor. other leases may require tenants to pay additional rent based upon a percentage of the facility revenue in excess of the revenue for a specific base period or threshold. the first year annual base rental rates on properties we acquired during 2005 ranged from 7% to 9% of the purchase price of the property. rental rates vary by lease, taking into consideration many factors, including: creditworthiness of the tenant; operating performance of the facility; cost of capital at the inception of the lease; location, type and physical condition of the facility; barriers to entry, such as certificates of need, competitive development and constraining high land costs; and lease term. 9 our hospitals, skilled nursing facilities, and senior housing facilities are typically leased on a triple-net basis with initial terms that range from five to 15 years, and generally have one or more renewal options. as of december 31, 2005, the weighted average remaining term, excluding unexercised renewal options, on these triple-net leased properties is approximately eight years. operating properties: our operating properties are typically multi-tenant medical office buildings that are leased to multiple healthcare providers (hospitals and physician practices) under a gross, modified gross or net lease structure. under a gross or modified gross lease, all or a portion of operating expenses are not reimbursed by tenants. most of our owned mobs are managed by third party property management companies and 19 are leased on a net basis while 88 are leased to multiple tenants under gross or modified gross leases pursuant to which we are responsible for certain operating expenses. regardless of lease structure, most of our leases at operating properties include annual base rent escalation clauses that are either predetermined fixed increases or are a function of an inflation index, and typically have an initial term ranging from one to fourteen years, with a weighted average remaining term of approximately five years as of december 31, 2005. the following table reflects the reduction in revenue (based on 2005 revenue) for owned triple-net leased and operating properties resulting from lease expirations, absent the impact of renewals, if any (in thousands): year triple-net leased operating properties total 2006 $ 4,903 $ 10,299 $ 15,202 2007 8,106 12,700 20,806 2008 17,068 20,304 37,372 2009 50,643 15,133 65,776 2010 16,268 12,568 28,836 thereafter 207,607 35,759 243,366 total $ 304,605 $ 106,753 $ 411,358 development properties: we generally commit to development projects when they are at least 50% pre-leased. we use internal and external construction management expertise to evaluate local market conditions, construction costs and other factors to seek appropriate risk adjusted returns. during 2005, we completed and placed into service approximately $5 million of owned development properties. in addition, during 2005, hcp mop completed and placed into service approximately $8 million of development properties. as of december 31, 2005, we have an interest in four properties under development. secured loan investments we have investments in 13 mortgage loans secured by 25 properties that are owned and operated by 11 healthcare providers. our secured loan investments typically consist of senior mortgages or mezzanine financing on individual properties or a pool of properties. at december 31, 2005, the carrying amount of these mortgage loans totaled $175.4 million. initial interest rates on mortgage loans outstanding at december 31, 2005 range from 7.5% to 13.5% per annum. at december 31, 2005, minimum future principal payments to be received on secured loans receivable are $66.5 million in 2006, $8.8 million in 2007, $2.4 million in 2008, $7.2 million in 2009, $39.8 million in 2010, and $50.7 million thereafter. our mortgage loans generally include prepayment penalties or yield maintenance provisions. 10 operator concentration the following table provides information about the concentration of business with our top five operators for the year ended december 31, 2005 (dollars in thousands): operators facilities investment(1) percentage of revenue tenet healthcare corporation (nyse:thc) ( tenet ) 8 $ 423,497 11 % american retirement corporation (nyse:arc) ( arc ) 15 399,854 9 emeritus corporation (amex:esc) ( emeritus ) 36 245,775 6 kindred healthcare, inc. (nasdaq:kind) 20 79,554 4 healthsouth corporation (otc:hlsh.pk) ( healthsouth ) 9 108,301 3 (1) represents the carrying amount of real estate assets, including intangibles, after adding back accumulated depreciation and amortization. all of our properties associated with the aforementioned operators are under triple-net leases. these operators are subject to the informational filing requirements of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, and are required to file periodic reports with the securities and exchange commission. financial and other information relating to these operators may be obtained from their public reports. according to public disclosures by tenet and healthsouth, each is experiencing various legal, financial, and regulatory difficulties. we cannot predict with certainty the impact, if any, of the outcome of these uncertainties on their financial condition. the failure or inability of these operators to pay their obligations could materially reduce our revenues, net income and cash flows, which could in turn reduce the amount of cash available for the payment of dividends, cause our stock price to decline and cause us to incur impairment charges or a loss on the sale of the properties. one of our hospitals located in tarzana, california is operated by tenet and is affected by state of california senate bill 1953, which requires certain seismic safety building standards for acute care hospital facilities. see government regulation california senate bill 1953 for more information. joint ventures consolidated joint ventures at december 31, 2005, we held ownership interests in 22 consolidated limited liability companies and partnerships that together own 91 properties and one mortgage as follows: a 77% interest in health care property partners, which owns two hospitals, 13 skilled nursing facilities and has one mortgage on a skilled nursing facility. interests varying between 90% and 97% in six partnerships (hcpi/san antonio ltd. partnership; hcpi/colorado springs ltd. partnership; hcpi/little rock ltd. partnership; hcpi/kansas ltd. partnership; fayetteville health associates ltd. partnership; and wichita health associates ltd. partnership), that each of which own a hospital. a 90% interest in three limited liability companies (arc la barc real estate holdings, llc; arc holland real estate holdings, llc; and arc sun city real estate holdings, llc) that each own a senior housing facility. an 80% interest in five limited liability companies (vista-cal associates, llc; statesboro associates, llc; ft. worth-cal associates, llc; perris-cal associates, llc; and louisiana-two associates, llc) that own a total of six skilled nursing facilities. 11 a 93% interest in hcpi/sorrento, llc, which owns a life science facility. a 94% interest in hcpi/indiana, llc, which owns six medical office buildings. a 28% interest in hcpi/tennessee, llc, which owns 14 medical office buildings and one assisted living facility. a 70% interest in hcpi/utah, llc, which owns 18 medical office buildings. a 66% interest in hcpi/utah ii, llc, which owns eight medical office buildings and eight other healthcare facilities. a 72% interest in hcp dr california, llc, which owns four independent and assisted living facilities. an initial 100% interest in hcpi/idaho falls, llc, which owns one hospital. unconsolidated joint ventures at december 31, 2005, we held ownership interests in five unconsolidated limited liability companies and partnerships that together own 97 properties as follows: a 33% interest in hcp mop which owns 93 medical office buildings. at december 31, 2005, 30 assets owned by hpc mop were held for sale and classified as discontinued operations . a 45% to 50% interest in each of four limited liability companies (seminole shores living center, llc 50%, edgewood assisted living center, llc 45%, arborwood living center, llc 45%, and greenleaf living center, llc 45%) that each own an assisted living facility. taxation of hcp we believe that we have operated in such a manner as to qualify for taxation as a reit under sections 856 to 860 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code ), commencing with our taxable year ended december 31, 1985, and we intend to continue to operate in such a manner. no assurance can be given that we have operated or will be able to continue to operate in a manner so as to qualify or to remain so qualified. this summary is qualified in its entirety by the applicable code provisions, rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, and administrative and judicial interpretations thereof. if we qualify for taxation as a reit, we will generally not be required to pay federal corporate income taxes on the portion of our net income that is currently distributed to stockholders. this treatment substantially eliminates the double taxation (i.e., at the corporate and stockholder levels) that generally results from investment in a corporation. however, we will be required to pay federal income tax under certain circumstances. the code defines a reit as a corporation, trust or association (i) which is managed by one or more trustees or directors; (ii) the beneficial ownership of which is evidenced by transferable shares, or by transferable certificates of beneficial interest; (iii) which would be taxable, but for sections 856 through 860 of the code, as a domestic corporation; (iv) which is neither a financial institution nor an insurance company subject to certain provisions of the code; (v) the beneficial ownership of which is held by 100 or more persons; (vi) during the last half of each taxable year not more than 50% in value of the outstanding stock of which is owned, actually or constructively, by five or fewer individuals; and (vii) which meets certain other tests, described below, regarding the amount of its distributions and the nature of its income and assets. the code provides that conditions (i) to (iv), inclusive, must be met during the entire taxable year and that condition (v) must be met during at least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months, or during a proportionate part of a taxable year of less than 12 months. 12 there are presently two gross income requirements. first, at least 75% of our gross income (excluding gross income from prohibited transactions as defined below) for each taxable year must be derived directly or indirectly from investments relating to real property or mortgages on real property or from certain types of temporary investment income. second, at least 95% of our gross income (excluding gross income from prohibited transactions) for each taxable year must be derived from income that qualifies under the 75% test and all other dividends, interest and gain from the sale or other disposition of stock or securities. a prohibited transaction is a sale or other disposition of property (other than foreclosure property) held for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. at the close of each quarter of our taxable year, we must also satisfy four tests relating to the nature of our assets. first, at least 75% of the value of our total assets must be represented by real estate assets, certain stock or debt instruments purchased with the proceeds of a stock offering or long term public debt offering by us (but only for the one-year period after such offering), cash, cash items and government securities. second, not more than 25% of our total assets may be represented by securities other than those in the 75% asset class. third, of the investments included in the 25% asset class, the value of any one issuer securities owned by us may not exceed 5% of the value of our total assets and we may not own more than 10% of the vote or value of the securities of a non-reit corporation, other than certain debt securities and interests in taxable reit subsidiaries or qualified reit subsidiaries, each as defined below. fourth, not more than 20% of the value of our total assets may be represented by securities of one or more taxable reit subsidiaries. we own interests in various partnerships and limited liability companies. in the case of a reit that is a partner in a partnership or a member of a limited liability company that is treated as a partnership under the code, treasury regulations provide that for purposes of the reit income and asset tests, the reit will be deemed to own its proportionate share of the assets of the partnership or limited liability company (determined in accordance with its capital interest in the entity), subject to special rules related to the 10% asset test, and will be deemed to be entitled to the income of the partnership or limited liability company attributable to such share. the ownership of an interest in a partnership or limited liability company by a reit may involve special tax risks, including the challenge by the internal revenue service (the service ) of the allocations of income and expense items of the partnership or limited liability company, which would affect the computation of taxable income of the reit, and the status of the partnership or limited liability company as a partnership (as opposed to an association taxable as a corporation) for federal income tax purposes. we also own interests in a number of subsidiaries which are intended to be treated as qualified reit subsidiaries (each a qrs ). the code provides that such subsidiaries will be ignored for federal income tax purposes and all assets, liabilities and items of income, deduction and credit of such subsidiaries will be treated as our assets, liabilities and such items. if any partnership, limited liability company, or subsidiary in which we own an interest were treated as a regular corporation (and not as a partnership, qrs or taxable reit subsidiary, as the case may be) for federal income tax purposes, we would likely fail to satisfy the reit asset tests described above and would therefore fail to qualify as a reit, unless certain relief provisions apply. we believe that each of the partnerships, limited liability companies, and subsidiaries (other than taxable reit subsidiaries) in which we own an interest will be treated for tax purposes as a partnership, or disregarded entity (in the case of a 100% owned partnership or limited liability company) or qrs, as applicable, although no assurance can be given that the service will not successfully challenge the status of any such organization. as of december 31, 2005, we owned interests in two subsidiaries which are intended to be treated as taxable reit subsidiaries (each a trs ). a reit may own any percentage of the voting stock and value of the securities of a corporation which jointly elects with the reit to be a trs, provided certain requirements are met. a trs generally may engage in any business, including the provision of customary or noncustomary services to tenants of its parent reit and of others, except a trs may not manage or 13 operate a hotel or healthcare facility. a trs is treated as a regular corporation and is subject to federal income tax and applicable state income and franchise taxes at regular corporate rates. in addition, a 100% tax may be imposed on a reit if its rental, service or other agreements with its trs, or the trs agreements with the reit tenants, are not on arm s-length terms. in order to qualify as a reit, we are required to distribute dividends (other than capital gain dividends) to our stockholders in an amount at least equal to (a) the sum of (i) 90% of our real estate investment trust taxable income (computed without regard to the dividends paid deduction and our net capital gain) and (ii) 90% of the net income, if any (after tax), from foreclosure property, minus (b) the sum of certain items of non-cash income. such distributions must be paid in the taxable year to which they relate, or in the following taxable year if declared before we timely file our tax return for such year, if paid on or before the first regular dividend payment date after such declaration and if we so elect and specify the dollar amount in our tax return. to the extent that we do not distribute all of our net long-term capital gain or distribute at least 90%, but less than 100%, of our real estate investment trust taxable income , as adjusted, we will be required to pay tax thereon at regular corporate tax rates. furthermore, if we should fail to distribute during each calendar year at least the sum of (i) 85% of our ordinary income for such year, (ii) 95% of our capital gain income for such year, and (iii) any undistributed taxable income from prior periods, we would be required to pay a 4% excise tax on the excess of such required distributions over the amounts actually distributed. if we fail to qualify for taxation as a reit in any taxable year, and certain relief provisions do not apply, we will be required to pay tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. distributions to stockholders in any year in which we fail to qualify will not be deductible by us nor will they be required to be made. unless entitled to relief under specific statutory provisions, we will also be disqualified from taxation as a reit for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost. it is not possible to state whether in all circumstances we would be entitled to the statutory relief. failure to qualify for even one year could substantially reduce distributions to stockholders and could result in our incurring substantial indebtedness (to the extent borrowings are feasible) or liquidating substantial investments in order to pay the resulting taxes. we and our stockholders may be required to pay state or local tax in various state or local jurisdictions, including those in which we or they transact business or reside. the state and local tax treatment of us and our stockholders may not conform to the federal income tax consequences discussed above. we may also be subject to certain taxes applicable to reits, including taxes in lieu of disqualification as a reit, on undistributed income, on income from prohibited transactions, on net income from foreclosure property and on built-in gains from the sale of certain assets acquired from c corporations in tax-free transactions. government regulation the healthcare industry is heavily regulated by federal, state and local laws. this government regulation of the healthcare industry affects us because: (1) governmental regulations such as licensure, certification for participation in government programs, and government reimbursement may impact the financial ability of some of our operators to make rent and debt payments to us, which in turn may affect the value of our investments, and (2) the amount of reimbursement such operators receive from the government and other third parties may affect the amounts we receive in additional rents, which are often based on our operators gross revenue from operations. 14 these laws and regulations are subject to frequent and substantial changes resulting from legislation, adoption of rules and regulations, and administrative and judicial interpretations of existing law. these changes may have a dramatic effect on the definition of permissible or impermissible activities, the relative costs associated with doing business and the amount of reimbursement by government and other third-party payors. these changes may be applied retroactively. the ultimate timing or effect of these changes cannot be predicted. the failure of any tenant or borrower to comply with such laws, regulations and requirements could affect its ability to operate its facility or facilities and could adversely affect such operator ability to make lease or debt payments to us. fraud and abuse laws. there are various federal and state laws prohibiting fraud and abusive business practices by healthcare providers who participate in, receive payments from or are in a position to make referrals in connection with a government-sponsored healthcare program, including, but not limited to, the medicare and medicaid programs. these include: the federal anti-kickback statute, which prohibits, among other things, the offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for, or to induce, the referral of medicare and medicaid patients. the federal physician self-referral prohibition (stark), which restricts physicians from making referrals for certain designated health services for which payment may be made under medicare or medicaid programs to an entity with which the physician (or an immediate family member) has a financial relationship. the false claims act, which prohibits any person from knowingly presenting false or fraudulent claims for payment to the federal government (including the medicare and medicaid programs). the civil monetary penalties law, which is imposed by the department of health and human services for fraudulent acts. each of these laws include criminal and/or civil penalties for violations that range from punitive sanctions, damage assessments, penalties, imprisonment, denial of medicare and medicaid payments, and/or exclusion from the medicare and medicaid programs. imposition of any of these types of penalties on our tenants or borrowers could result in a material adverse effect on their operations, which could adversely affect our business. additionally, certain laws, such as the false claims act, allow for individuals to bring qui tam (whistleblower) actions on behalf of the government for violations of fraud and abuse laws. some medicare fiscal intermediaries (private companies that contract with centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services ( cms ) to administer the medicare program) have also increased scrutiny of cost reports filed by skilled nursing providers. environmental matters. a wide variety of federal, state and local environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations affect healthcare facility operations. under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner of real property or a secured lender (such as us) may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances at, under or disposed of in connection with such property, as well as other potential costs relating to hazardous or toxic substances (including government fines and damages for injuries to persons and adjacent property). the cost of any required remediation, removal, fines or personal or property damages and the owner or secured lender liability therefore could exceed the value of the property, and/or the assets of the owner or secured lender. in addition, the presence of such substances, or the failure to properly dispose of or remediate such substances, may adversely affect the owner ability to sell or rent such property or to borrow using such property as collateral which, in turn, would reduce our revenue. although the mortgage loans that we provide and the leases covering our properties require the borrower and the tenant to indemnify us for certain environmental liabilities, the scope of such obligations may be 15 limited and we cannot assure that any such borrower or tenant would be able to fulfill its indemnification obligations. the medicare and medicaid programs. sources of revenue for operators may include the federal medicare program, state medicaid programs, private insurance carriers, healthcare service plans and health maintenance organizations, among others. efforts to reduce costs by these payors will likely continue, which may result in reduced or slower growth in reimbursement for certain services provided by some of our operators. in addition, the failure of any of our operators to comply with various laws and regulations could jeopardize their certification and ability to continue to participate in the medicare and medicaid programs. medicaid programs differ from state to state but they are all subject to federally-imposed requirements. at least 50% of the funds available under these programs are provided by the federal government under a matching program. medicaid programs generally pay for acute and rehabilitative care based on reasonable costs at fixed rates; skilled nursing facilities are generally reimbursed using fixed daily rates. medicaid payments are generally below retail rates for tenant-operated facilities. increasingly, states have introduced managed care contracting techniques into the administration of medicaid programs. such mechanisms could have the impact of reducing utilization of and reimbursement to facilities. other third party payors in various states base payments on costs, retail rates or, increasingly, negotiated rates. negotiated rates can include discounts from normal charges, fixed daily rates and prepaid capitated rates. healthcare facilities. the healthcare facilities in our portfolio, including hospitals, skilled nursing facilities, assisted living facilities, and physician group practice clinics, are subject to extensive federal, state and local licensure, certification and inspection laws and regulations. failure to comply with any of these laws could result in loss of accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension or decertification from federal and state healthcare programs, loss of license or closure of the facility. such actions may have an effect on the revenue of the operators of properties owned by or mortgaged to us and therefore adversely impact us. entrance fee communities. certain of the senior housing facilities mortgaged to or owned by us are operated as entrance fee communities. generally, an entrance fee is an upfront fee or consideration paid by a resident, a portion of which may be refundable, in exchange for some form of long-term benefit. some of the entrance fee communities are subject to significant state regulatory oversight, including, for example, oversight of each facility financial condition, establishment and monitoring of reserve requirements and other financial restrictions, the right of residents to cancel their contracts within a specified period of time, lien rights in favor of the residents, restrictions on change of ownership and similar matters. such oversight and the rights of residents within these entrance fee communities may have an effect on the revenue or operations of the operators of such facilities and therefore may adversely impact us. california senate bill 1953. our hospital located in tarzana, california is affected by state of california senate bill 1953 (sb 1953), which requires certain seismic safety building standards for acute care hospital facilities. this hospital is operated by tenet under a lease expiring in february 2009. we and tenet are currently reviewing the sb 1953 compliance of this hospital, multiple plans of action to cause such compliance, the estimated time for completing the same, and the cost of performing necessary remediation of the property. we cannot currently estimate the remediation costs that will need to be incurred prior to 2013 in order to make the facility sb 1953-compliant through 2030, or the final allocation of any remediation costs between us and tenet. rent on the hospital in 2005 and 2004 was $10.8 million and $10.6 million, respectively, and our carrying amount is $76.1 million at december 31, 2005. nurse staffing ratios. on january 1, 2004, a california law became effective mandating specific minimum nurse staffing ratios for acute care hospitals. as a result of this requirement, hospital labor costs will be materially increased. facilities may also be forced to limit patient admissions due to an inability to 16 hire the necessary number of nurses to meet the required ratio, which affects net operating revenue. it is unclear the extent to which compliance with these nurse staffing ratios in california may adversely affect hospital operators in california. current developments the healthcare industry continues to face various challenges, including increased government and private payor pressure on healthcare providers to control costs, the migration of patients from acute care facilities into extended care and home care settings, and the vertical and horizontal consolidation of healthcare providers. changes in the law, new interpretations of existing laws, and changes in payment methodologies may have a dramatic effect on the definition of permissible or impermissible activities, the relative costs associated with doing business and the amount of reimbursement furnished by government and other third-party payors. these changes may be applied retroactively under certain circumstances. the ultimate timing or effect of legislative efforts cannot be predicted and may impact us in different ways. in december of 2003, the medicare prescription drug, improvement and modernization act of 2003 (the act ) was signed into law. the act established an 18-month moratorium on the whole hospital exception to the stark law, whereby physicians have been permitted to refer patients for designated health services to hospitals in which they have an ownership interest. the moratorium removed specialty hospitals from the whole hospital exception from december 8, 2003 through june 7, 2005. specialty hospitals include hospitals primarily or exclusively engaged in the care and treatment of cardiac conditions or orthopedic conditions, or hospitals that perform certain surgical procedures. specialty hospitals in operation or under development as of november 18, 2003 were grandfathered under the moratorium. the act requires that medpac, an independent federal body established to advise congress on issues affecting the medicare program, and hhs conduct studies on the costs of service, utilization, quality of care and financial impact of specialty hospitals and their physician owners relative to community hospitals, particularly nonprofits. on january 14, 2005 medpac announced that it would recommend that congress extend the stark specialty hospital moratorium for an additional 18 months to january 1, 2007, to address concerns about the effects of physician investments in specialty hospitals. medpac recommendations were based upon its findings that when compared with community hospitals, physician owned specialty hospitals tend to concentrate on certain more profitable diagnostic related groups ( drgs ) and on patients with relatively low severity within those drgs, and tend to treat lower percentages of medicare patients. congress is not obligated to follow medpac recommendations. legislation has been introduced in congress (the hospital fair competition act of 2005) that would extend the moratorium for specialty hospitals. it is uncertain if such legislation will be enacted this year or in subsequent sessions of congress. notwithstanding the uncertainty of legislation extending the moratorium, cms instructed medicare fiscal intermediaries to stop processing new medicare provider enrollment applications for specialty hospitals after june 8, 2005, pending cms review of how specialty hospitals satisfy core requirements applicable to hospitals under medicare, and how the emergency medical treatment and active labor act should apply to specialty hospitals. cms expects to complete its review in early 2006, with further changes in 2006 to the hospital inpatient prospective payment system to reduce the ability of specialty hospitals to take advantage of imprecise payment rates under the current system. in addition to the reforms enacted and considered by congress from time to time, state legislatures periodically consider various healthcare reform proposals. congress and state legislatures can be expected to continue to review and assess alternative healthcare delivery systems, new regulatory enforcement initiatives, and new payment methodologies. we believe that government and private efforts to contain or reduce healthcare costs will continue. these trends are likely to lead to reduced or slower growth in reimbursement for certain services provided 17 by some of our operators. in addition, recent trends of hospitals providing more services to uninsured patients or on an outpatient basis rather than inpatient basis may continue and could adversely affect the profitability of our operators. we believe that the vast nature of the healthcare industry, the financial strength and operating flexibility of our operators, and the diversity of our portfolio will mitigate the impact of any such trends. however, we cannot predict what legislation will be adopted, and no assurance can be given that the healthcare reforms will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. employees at december 31, 2005, we had 83 full-time employees and no part-time employees, none of whom are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. we consider our relations with our employees to be good. legal entities we conduct our business through various legal entities, including the following at december 31, 2005: 100% owned consolidated joint ventures unconsolidated joint ventures ahp of nevada, inc. ahp of washington, inc. arc richmond place real estate holdings, llc birmingham hcp, llc emeritus realty v, llc esc-la casa grande, llc health care investors iii hcp 1101 madison mob, llc hcp 600 broadway mob, llc hcp al of florida, llc hcp acquisitions, llc hcp arnold mob, llc hcp ballard mob, llc hcp birmingham portfolio, llc hcp cullman mob gp, llc cullman pob partners i, ltd. cullman pob ii, llc hcp cullman mob gp, llc hcp cityview i, l.p. hcp cityview ii, l.p. hcp egp, inc. hcp kirkland, llc hcp louisville, inc. faulkner hinton suburban i, llc faulkner hinton suburban ii, llc hcp medical office buildings i, llc hcp medical office buildings ii, llc hcp mop member, llc arc holland real estate holdings, llc arc labarc real estate holdings llc arc sun city real estate holdings, llc fayetteville health associates limited partnership ft. worth-cal associates, llc hcp dr california, llc hcp pleasant, llc hcpi/colorado springs ltd. partnership hcp cte, l.p. hcp ete, l.p. hcpi/idaho falls llc hcpi/indiana, llc hcpi/kansas limited partnership hcpi/little rock limited partnership hcpi/san antonio limited partnership hcpi/sorrento, llc hcpi/tennessee, llc mob of denver 1, llc mob of denver 2, llc mob of denver 3, llc mob of denver 4, llc mob of denver 5, llc mob of denver 6, llc mob of denver 7, llc medical office buildings of california llc arborwood living center, llc edgewood assisted living center, llc greenleaf living centers, llc hcp medical office portfolio, llc seminole shores living center, llc 18 hcp ne retail mob, llc hcp shore, llc hcp trs, inc. medical office buildings of reston, llc hcpi knightdale, inc. hcpi mortgage corp. hcpi trust hcp virginia, inc. jackson hcp, llc mckinney hcp gp, llc mckinney hcp, l.p. meadowdome, llc medcap hcpi development, llc aurora hcp, llc hcp owasso mob, llc medical office buildings of colorado ii, llc medical office buildings of nevada-southern hills, llc mission springs al, llc overland park al, llc tampa hcp, llc texas hcp g.p., inc. texas hcp holding, l.p. texas hcp medical g.p., inc. texas hcp medical office buildings, l.p. texas hcp, inc. medical office buildings of utah llc westminster hcp, llc hcpi/utah, llc davis north i, llc hcpi/utah ii, llc hcpi/stansbury, llc hcpi/wesley, llc health care property partners louisiana-two associates, llc perris-cal associates, llc statesboro associates, llc vista-cal associates, llc wichita health associates limited partnership item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider the risks described below as well as the risks described in competition, government regulation, and taxation of hcp and elsewhere in this report, which risks are incorporated by reference into this section, before making an investment decision regarding our company. the risks and uncertainties described herein are not the only ones facing us and there may be additional risks that we do not presently know of or that we currently consider not likely to have a significant impact. all of these risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. risks related to our operators if our facility operators are unable to operate our properties in a manner sufficient to generate income, they may be unable to make rent and loan payments to us. the healthcare industry is highly competitive and we expect that it may become more competitive in the future. our operators are subject to competition from other healthcare providers that provide similar services. such competition, which has intensified due to overbuilding in some segments in which we operate, has caused the fill-up rate of newly constructed buildings to slow and the monthly rate that many newly built and previously existing facilities were able to obtain for their services to decrease. the profitability of healthcare facilities depends upon several factors, including the number of physicians using 19 the healthcare facilities or referring patients there, competitive systems of healthcare delivery and the size and composition of the population in the surrounding area. private, federal and state payment programs and the effect of other laws and regulations may also have a significant influence on the revenues and income of the properties. if our operators are not competitive with other healthcare providers and are unable to generate income, they may be unable to make rent and loan payments to us, which could adversely affect our cash flow and financial performance and condition. the bankruptcy, insolvency or financial deterioration of our facility operators could significantly delay our ability to collect unpaid rents or require us to find new operators. our financial position and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders may be adversely affected by financial difficulties experienced by any of our major operators, including bankruptcy, insolvency or a general downturn in the business, or in the event any of our major operators do not renew or extend their relationship with us as their lease terms expire. we are exposed to the risk that our operators may not be able to meet their obligations, which may result in their bankruptcy or insolvency. although our leases and loans provide us the right to terminate an investment, evict an operator, demand immediate repayment and other remedies, the bankruptcy laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization. an operator in bankruptcy may be able to restrict our ability to collect unpaid rents or interest during the bankruptcy proceeding. tenet healthcare corporation accounts for a significant percentage of our revenues and is currently experiencing significant legal, financial and regulatory difficulties. during 2005, tenet healthcare corporation accounted for approximately 11% of our revenues. according to public disclosures, tenet is experiencing significant legal, financial and regulatory difficulties. we cannot predict with certainty the impact, if any, of the outcome of these uncertainties on our consolidated financial statements. the failure or inability of tenet to pay its obligations could materially reduce our revenue, net income and cash flows, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock and could cause us to incur impairment charges or a loss on the sale of the properties. our operators are faced with increased litigation and rising insurance costs that may affect their ability to make their lease or mortgage payments. in some states, advocacy groups have been created to monitor the quality of care at healthcare facilities, and these groups have brought litigation against operators. also, in several instances, private litigation by patients has succeeded in winning very large damage awards for alleged abuses. the effect of this litigation and potential litigation has been to materially increase the costs of monitoring and reporting quality of care compliance incurred by our operators. in addition, the cost of liability and medical malpractice insurance has increased and may continue to increase so long as the present litigation environment affecting the operations of healthcare facilities continues. continued cost increases could cause our operators to be unable to make their lease or mortgage payments, potentially decreasing our revenue and increasing our collection and litigation costs. moreover, to the extent we are required to take back the affected facilities, our revenue from those facilities could be reduced or eliminated for an extended period of time. decline in the skilled nursing sector and changes to medicare and medicaid reimbursement rates may have significant adverse consequences to us. certain of our skilled nursing operators and facilities continue to experience operating problems in part due to a national nursing shortage, increased liability insurance costs, and low levels of medicare and medicaid reimbursement. due to economic challenges facing many states, nursing homes will likely continue to be under-funded. these challenges have had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on our long-term care facilities and facility operators. 20 risks related to real estate investment and our structure we rely on external sources of capital to fund future capital needs, and if our access to such capital is difficult or on commercially unreasonable terms, we may not be able to meet maturing commitments or make future investments necessary to grow our business. in order to qualify as a reit under the internal revenue code, we are required, among other things, to distribute to our stockholders each year at least 90% of our reit taxable income. because of this distribution requirement, we may not be able to fund all future capital needs, including capital needs in connection with acquisitions, from cash retained from operations. as a result, we rely on external sources of capital. if we are unable to obtain needed capital at all or only on unfavorable terms from these sources, we might not be able to make the investments needed to grow our business, or to meet our obligations and commitments as they mature, which could negatively affect the ratings of our debt and even, in extreme circumstances, affect our ability to continue operations. our access to capital depends upon a number of factors over which we have little or no control, including: general market conditions; the market perception of our growth potential; our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions; and the market price of the shares of our capital stock. if we are unable to identify and purchase suitable healthcare facilities at a favorable cost, we will be unable to continue to grow through acquisitions. our ability to grow through acquisitions is integral to our business strategy and requires us to identify suitable acquisition candidates that meet our criteria and are compatible with our growth strategy. the acquisition and financing of healthcare facilities at favorable costs is highly competitive. we may not be successful in identifying suitable property or other assets that meet our acquisition criteria or in consummating acquisitions on satisfactory terms or at all. if we cannot identify and purchase a sufficient quantity of healthcare facilities at favorable prices, or if we are unable to finance such acquisitions on commercially favorable terms, our business will suffer. unforeseen costs associated with the acquisition of new properties could reduce our profitability. our business strategy contemplates future acquisitions. the acquisitions we make may not prove to be successful. we might encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired properties, including contingent liabilities. further, newly acquired properties might require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. we might never realize the anticipated benefits of an acquisition, which could adversely affect our profitability. since real estate investments are illiquid, we may not be able to sell properties when we desire. real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly. we may not be able to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changes in the real estate market. this inability to respond to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our ability to service our debt. the real estate market is affected by many factors that are beyond our control, including: adverse changes in national and local economic and market conditions; changes in interest rates and in the availability, costs and terms of financing; changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning and other ordinances and costs of compliance with laws and regulations; 21 the ongoing need for capital improvements, particularly in older structures; changes in operating expenses; and civil unrest, acts of war and natural disasters, including earthquakes and floods, which may result in uninsured and underinsured losses. we cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms set by us, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. we also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. in addition, there are provisions under the federal income tax laws applicable to reits that may limit our ability to recognize the full economic benefit from a sale of our assets. these factors and any others that would impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. transfers of healthcare facilities generally require regulatory approvals, and alternative uses of healthcare facilities are limited. because transfers of healthcare facilities may be subject to regulatory approvals not required for transfers of other types of commercial operations and other types of real estate, there may be delays in transferring operations of our facilities to successor operators or we may be prohibited from transferring operations to a successor operator. in addition, substantially all of our properties are healthcare facilities that may not be easily adapted to non-healthcare related uses. if we are unable to transfer properties at times opportune to us, our revenue and operations may suffer. we may experience uninsured or underinsured losses. we generally require our operators to secure and maintain comprehensive liability and property insurance that covers us, as well as the operators, on most of our properties. some types of losses, however, either may be uninsurable or too expensive to insure against. should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property. in such an event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. we cannot assure you that material losses in excess of insurance proceeds will not occur in the future. increases in interest rates may increase our interest expense and adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to service our indebtedness. at december 31, 2005, our total consolidated indebtedness was approximately $2.0 billion, of which approximately $295 million, or 15%, is subject to variable interest rates. this variable rate debt had a weighted average interest rate of approximately 5.0% per annum. increases in interest rates on this variable rate debt would increase our interest expense, which could harm our cash flow and our ability to service our indebtedness. loss of our tax status as a reit would have significant adverse consequences to us. we currently operate and have operated commencing with our taxable year ended december 31, 1985 in a manner that is intended to allow us to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes under the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended. qualification as a reit involves the application of highly technical and complex internal revenue code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to qualify as a reit. for example, in order to qualify as a reit, at least 95% of our gross income 22 in any year must be derived from qualifying sources, and we must satisfy a number of requirements regarding the composition of our assets. also, we must make distributions to stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our reit taxable income, excluding capital gains. in addition, new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may adversely affect our investors or our ability to qualify as a reit for tax purposes. although we believe that we have been organized and have operated in such manner, we can give no assurance that we have qualified or will continue to qualify as a reit for tax purposes. if we lose our reit status, we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available to make payments of principal and interest on the debt securities we issue and to make distributions to our stockholders. if we fail to qualify as a reit: we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates; we also could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we could not elect to be subject to tax as a reit for four taxable years following the year during which we were disqualified. in addition, if we fail to qualify as a reit, all distributions to stockholders would be subject to tax as regular corporate dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits and we would not be required to make distributions to stockholders. as a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a reit also could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and could adversely affect the value of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk at december 31, 2005, we are exposed to market risks related to fluctuations in interest rates on $57.3 million of variable rate mortgage notes payable, $258.6 million of variable rate bank debt and $25.0 million of variable rate senior unsecured notes. of the $57.3 million of variable rate mortgage notes payable 44 outstanding, $45.6 million has been hedged through interest rate swap contracts. we do not have any, and do not plan to enter into, derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. of our consolidated debt of $2.0 billion at december 31, 2005, excluding the $45.6 million of variable rate debt where the rates have been hedged to fixed rates, approximately 15% is at variable interest rates. fluctuation in the interest rate environment will not affect our future earnings and cash flows on our fixed rate debt until that debt must be replaced or refinanced. however, interest rate changes will affect the fair value of our fixed rate instruments and our hedge contracts. conversely, changes in interest rates on variable rate debt would change our future earnings and cash flows, but not affect the fair value of those instruments. assuming a one percentage point increase in the interest rate related to the variable-rate debt and related swap contracts, and assuming no change in the outstanding balance as of december 31, 2005, interest expense for 2005 would increase by approximately $3 million, or $0.02 per common share on a diluted basis. the principal amount and the average interest rates for our mortgage loans receivable and debt categorized by maturity dates is presented in the table below. the fair value estimates for the mortgage loans receivable are based on the estimates of management and on rates currently prevailing for comparable loans. the fair market value estimates for debt securities are based on discounting future cash flows utilizing current rates offered to us for debt of the same type and remaining maturity. maturity 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 thereafter total fair value (dollars in thousands) loans receivable: secured loans receivable $ 64,130 $ 8,290 $ 724 $ 5,480 $ 45,654 $ 51,148 $ 175,426 $ 202,695 weighted average interest rate 11.44 % 12.25 % 10.50 % 12.23 % 11.16 % 8.64 % 10.61 % liabilities: variable rate debt: bank notes payable $ $ 258,600 $ $ $ $ $ 258,600 $ 258,600 weighted average interest rate 5.01 % 5.01 % senior notes payable $ $ $ $ $ $ 25,000 $ 25,000 $ 25,000 weighted average interest rate 5.39 % 5.39 % mortgage notes payable $ $ $ $ $ $ 11,665 $ 11,665 $ 11,665 weighted average interest rate 2.75 % 2.75 % fixed rate debt: senior notes payable $ 135,000 $ 140,000 $ $ $ 206,421 $ 962,000 $ 1,443,421 $ 1,466,591 weighted average interest rate 6.70 % 7.49 % 4.93 % 6.24 % 6.22 % mortgage notes payable $ $ 5,434 $ 15,391 $ 5,920 $ 68,645 $ 124,355 $ 219,745 $ 247,303 weighted average interest rate 8.03 % 7.18 % 7.17 % 8.19 % 6.76 % 7.08 %risk factors 22 item 1b. unresolved staff comments 29 item 2. properties 29 item 3. legal proceedings 32 item 4. submission of matters to a vote of security holders 32 part ii item 5. market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities 33 item 6. selected financial data 37 item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations 38 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 54 item 8. financial statements and supplementary data 55 item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosures 55 item 9a. controls and procedures 55 part iii item 10. directors and executive officers of the registrant 59 item 11. executive compensation 59 item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters 59 item 13. certain relationships and related transactions 59 item 14. principal accountant fees and services 59 item 15. exhibits, financial statements and financial statement schedules 60 2 part i item 1. business business overview health care property investors, inc., together with its consolidated subsidiaries and joint ventures (collectively, hcp or the company ), invests primarily in real estate serving the healthcare industry in the united states. health care property investors, inc. is a maryland real estate investment trust ( reit ) organized in 1985. the company is headquartered in long beach, california, with operations in nashville, tennessee and orlando, florida, and its portfolio includes interests in 731 properties. the company acquires healthcare facilities and leases them to healthcare providers and provides mortgage financing secured by healthcare facilities. the company portfolio includes: (i) senior housing, including independent living facilities ( ilfs ), assisted living facilities ( alfs ), and continuing care retirement communities ( ccrcs ); (ii) medical office buildings ( mobs ); (iii) hospitals; (iv) skilled nursing facilities ( snfs ); and (v) other healthcare facilities, including laboratory and office buildings. for business segment financial data, see our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. references herein to hcp, the company, we, us and our include health care property investors, inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries and joint ventures, unless the context otherwise requires. on our internet website, www.hcpi.com, you can access, free of charge, our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, and current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the securities and exchange commission ( sec ). in addition, the sec maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including hcp, that file electronically with the sec at www.sec.gov. healthcare industry healthcare is the single largest industry in the united states, representing 16% of u.s. gross domestic product ( gdp ) in 2004 and growing at a rate faster than the overall economy. healthcare expenditures rising as a percentage of gdp source: centers for medicare and medicaid, december 2006. (1) compound annual growth rate ( cagr ) 3 the delivery of healthcare services requires real estate and as a consequence, healthcare providers depend on real estate to maintain and grow their businesses. hcp believes that the current healthcare real estate market provides an investment opportunity due to the: likelihood of consolidation of the fragmented healthcare real estate sector; specialized nature of healthcare real estate investing; and compelling demographics driving the demand for healthcare services. senior citizens are the largest consumers of healthcare services. according to the centers for medicare and medicaid, on a per capita basis, the 75 years and older segment of the population spends 75% more on healthcare than the 65 to 74-year-old segment and nearly 300% more than the population average. u.s. population over 65 years old source: u.s. census bureau, statistical abstract of the united states: 2004-2005. business strategy we are organized to invest in healthcare-related facilities. our primary goal is to increase shareholder value through profitable growth. our investment strategy to achieve this goal is based on three principles opportunistic investing, portfolio diversification, and conservative financing. opportunistic investing we make real estate investments that are expected to drive profitable growth and create long-term shareholder value. we attempt to position ourselves to create and take advantage of situations to meet our goals and investment criteria. we invest in properties directly and through joint ventures, and provide secured financing, depending on the nature of the investment opportunity. portfolio diversification we believe in maintaining a portfolio of healthcare-related real estate diversified by sector, geography, operator and investment product. diversification within the healthcare industry reduces the likelihood that a single event would materially harm our business. this allows us to take advantage of opportunities in different markets based on individual market dynamics. while pursuing our strategy of 4 maintaining diversification in our portfolio, there are no specific limitations under our certificate of incorporation and bylaws on the percentage of our total assets that may be invested in any one property, property type, geographic location or in the number of properties which we may invest in, lease or lend to a single operator. with investments in multiple sectors of healthcare real estate, hcp can focus on opportunities with the best risk/reward profile for the portfolio as a whole, rather than having to choose from transactions within a specific property type. conservative financing we believe a conservative balance sheet provides us with the ability to execute our opportunistic investing approach and portfolio diversification principles. we maintain our conservative balance sheet by actively managing our debt to equity levels and maintaining available sources of liquidity, such as our revolving line of credit. our debt is primarily fixed rate, which reduces the impact of rising interest rates on our operations. generally, we attempt to match the long-term duration of our leases with long-term fixed-rate financing. in underwriting our investments, we structure and adjust the price of the investment in accordance with our assessment of risk. we may structure transactions as master leases, require indemnifications, obtain enhancements in the form of letters of credit or security deposits, and take other measures to mitigate risk. we finance our investments based on our evaluation of available sources of funding. for short-term purposes, we may utilize our revolving line of credit or arrange for other short-term borrowings from banks or other sources. we arrange for longer-term financing through public offerings or from institutional investors. we may incur additional indebtedness or issue preferred or common stock. we may incur additional mortgage indebtedness on real estate we acquire. we may also obtain non-recourse or other mortgage financing on unleveraged properties in which we have invested or may refinance existing debt on properties acquired. competition our properties compete with the facilities of other landlords and healthcare providers. the landlords and operators of these competing properties may have capital resources substantially in excess of ours or of the operators of our facilities. the occupancy and rental income at our properties depend upon several factors, including the number of physicians using the healthcare facilities or referring patients to the facilities, competing properties and healthcare providers, and the size and composition of the population in the surrounding area. private, federal and state payment programs and the effect of laws and regulations may also have a significant influence on the profitability of the properties and their tenants. virtually all of our properties operate in a competitive environment in which tenants, patients and referral sources, including physicians, may change their preferences for a healthcare facility from time to time. investing in real estate is highly competitive. we face competition from other reits, investment companies, healthcare operators and other institutional investors when we attempt to acquire properties. increased competition reduces the number of opportunities that meet our investment criteria. if we do not identify investments that meet our investment criteria, our ability to increase shareholder value through profitable growth may be limited. 5 transaction overview mergers with cnl retirement properties, inc. and cnl retirement corp. on october 5, 2006, we closed our merger with cnl retirement properties, inc. ( crp ) for aggregate consideration of approximately $5.3 billion. in the crp merger, we paid an aggregate of $2.9 billion of cash, issued 22.8 million shares of our common stock, and we either assumed or refinanced approximately $1.7 billion of crp outstanding debt. we initially financed the cash consideration paid to crp stockholders and the expenses related to the transaction through an offering of senior notes, a draw down under new term and bridge loan facilities and a new three-year revolving credit facility. our results of operations for 2006 include the results of the combined company beginning on october 5, 2006. for more information about the crp merger, see note 5 to our consolidated financial statements. simultaneous with the closing of the merger with crp, we also merged with cnl retirement corp. ( crc ) for aggregate consideration of approximately $120 million, which included the issuance of 4.4 million shares of our common stock. investment transactions during 2006, including the crp merger discussed above, we acquired interests in properties aggregating $5.9 billion with an average yield of 6.9%. our 2006 investments were made in the following healthcare sectors: (i) 77% senior housing facilities; (ii) 19% mobs; (iii) 3% hospitals; and (iv) 1% other healthcare facilities. our 2006 real estate investments included the following: during the three months ended march 31, 2006, we acquired 13 medical office buildings for $138 million, including non-managing member llc units ( downreit units ) valued at $6 million, in related transactions. the 13 buildings, with 730,000 rentable square feet, have an initial yield of 7.3%. on may 31, 2006, we acquired nine assisted living and independent living facilities for $99 million, including assumed debt valued at $61 million, through a sale-leaseback transaction. these facilities have an initial lease term of ten years, with two ten-year renewal options. the initial annual lease rate is approximately 8.0% with annual cpi-based escalators. on november 30, 2006, we acquired four assisted living and independent living facilities for $51 million, through a sale-leaseback transaction. these facilities have an initial lease term of ten years, with two ten-year renewal options. the initial annual lease rate is approximately 8.0% with annual escalators based on the consumer price index ( cpi ). during 2006, we sold 83 properties for $512 million and recognized gains of approximately $275 million. these sales included 69 snfs sold on december 1, 2006, for $392 million with gains of approximately $226 million. on or before december 1, 2006, tenants for nine snfs exercised rights of first refusal to acquire such facilities. the sales of the nine snfs for $52 million are expected to be completed by june 30, 2007. on november 17, 2006, we purchased $300 million senior secured notes issued by a hca inc. these notes accrue interest at 9.625%, mature on november 15, 2016, and are secured by second-priority liens on the hca and its subsidiary guarantors assets. on january 31, 2007, we acquired three long-term acute care hospitals and received proceeds of $36 million in exchange for 11 skilled nursing facilities valued at approximately $77 million. the three acquired properties have an initial lease term of ten years, with two ten-year renewal options, and an initial 6 contractual yield of 12% with escalators based on the lessee revenue growth. the acquired properties are included in a new master lease that contains 14 properties leased to the same operator. on february 9, 2007, we acquired the medical city dallas campus, which includes two hospital towers, six medical office buildings, and three parking garages, for approximately $347 million, including non-managing member llc units ( downreit units ) valued at $174 million. the initial yield on this campus is approximately 7.3%. joint venture transactions on october 27, 2006, we formed an mob joint venture with an institutional capital partner. the joint venture includes 13 properties valued at $140 million and encumbered by $92 million of mortgage debt. upon formation, we received approximately $36 million in proceeds, including a one-time acquisition fee of $0.7 million. we retained an effective 26% interest in the venture, will act as the managing member, and will receive ongoing asset management fees. on november 30, 2006, we acquired the interest held by an affiliate of general electric company in hcp medical office portfolio, llc ( hcp mop ), for $141 million. we are now the sole owner of the venture and its 59 mobs, which have approximately four million rentable square feet. at closing, $251 million of mortgage debt encumbered these mobs. on january 5, 2007, we formed a senior housing joint venture with an institutional capital partner. the joint venture includes 25 properties valued at $1.1 billion and encumbered by a $686 million secured debt facility. upon formation, we received approximately $280 million in proceeds, including a one-time acquisition fee of $5.4 million. including the $446 million recently received from the secured debt facility with fannie mae discussed below, we received $726 million in total proceeds. we retained a 35% interest in the venture, will act as the managing member, and will receive ongoing asset management fees. capital market transactions during 2006, in addition to the mortgage debt issued under the fannie mae facility discussed below, we obtained $165 million of ten-year mortgage financing with a weighted average effective yield of 6.36% in five separate transactions. we received net proceeds of $162 million, which were used to repay outstanding indebtedness and for other general corporate purposes. on february 27, 2006, we issued $150 million of 5.625% senior unsecured notes due in 2013. the notes were priced at 99.071% of the principal amount for an effective yield of 5.788%. we received net proceeds of $149 million, which were used to repay outstanding indebtedness and for other general corporate purposes. on september 19, 2006, we issued $1 billion of senior unsecured notes, which consisted of $300 million of floating rate notes due in 2008, $300 million of 5.95% notes due in 2011, and $400 million of 6.30% notes due in 2016. we received net proceeds of $994 million, which together with cash on hand and borrowings under the new credit facilities were used to repay our then existing credit facility and to finance the crp merger. on october 5, 2006, in connection with the crp merger, we entered into credit agreements with a syndicate of banks providing for aggregate borrowings of $3.4 billion. the credit facilities included a $0.7 billion bridge loan, a $1.7 billion two-year term loan, and a $1.0 billion three-year revolving credit facility. as of december 31, 2006, we had repaid the bridge loan and borrowings under the term loan were reduced to $0.5 billion. in addition, through our capital market transactions in january 2007, we fully repaid the balance outstanding under the term loan. 7 on november 10, 2006, we issued 33.5 million shares of common stock. we received net proceeds of approximately $960 million, which were used to repay our bridge loan facility and borrowings under our term loan and revolving credit facilities. on december 4, 2006, we issued $400 million of 5.65% senior unsecured notes due in 2013. the notes were priced at 99.768% of the principal amount for an effective yield of 5.69%. we received net proceeds of $396 million, which were used to repay borrowings under our term loan facility. on december 21, 2006, in anticipation of our senior housing joint venture that closed on january 5, 2007, we expanded an existing secured debt facility with fannie mae to $686 million, receiving $446 million in proceeds. the fannie mae facility bears interest at a weighted average rate of 5.66%. the funds from the expanded debt facility were used to repay borrowings under our term loan facility. on january 19, 2007, we issued 6.8 million shares of common stock. we received net proceeds of approximately $261 million, which were used to repay borrowings under our term loan facility. on january 22, 2007, we issued $500 million of 6.00% senior unsecured notes due in 2017. the notes were priced at 99.323% of the principal amount for an effective yield of 6.09%. we received net proceeds of $493 million, which were used to repay borrowings under our term loan and revolving credit facilities. other events during the year ended december 31, 2006, we issued approximately 797,000 shares of our common stock under our dividend reinvestment and stock purchase plan at an average price per share of $28.68 for proceeds of $22.9 million. quarterly dividends paid during 2006 aggregated $1.70 per share. on january 29, 2007, we announced that our board of directors declared a quarterly common stock cash dividend of $0.445 per share. the common stock dividend will be paid on february 21, 2007, to stockholders of record as of the close of business on february 5, 2007. the annualized rate of distribution for 2007 is $1.78, compared with $1.70 for 2006, which represents a 4.7% increase. our board of directors has determined to continue its policy of considering dividend increases on an annual rather than quarterly basis. 8 properties portfolio summary our portfolio of investments at december 31, 2006 includes direct investments in healthcare-related properties, mortgage loans, and investments through joint ventures. our properties include hospitals, skilled nursing facilities, senior housing facilities, medical office buildings, and other healthcare facilities. as of and for the year ended december 31, 2006, our portfolio of investments, excluding assets held for sale and classified as discontinued operations, consists of the following (square feet and dollars in thousands): number 2006 property type of properties capacity(1) square feet investment(2) rental revenues operating expenses noi(4) owned properties: hospital 33 3,356 beds 3,650 $ 871,394 $ 94,481 $ $ 94,481 skilled nursing 65 7,404 beds 2,447 313,180 42,253 94 42,159 senior housing 271 28,333 units 24,251 3,968,837 181,500 12,491 169,009 medical office building 246 n/a 14,952 2,366,692 176,840 66,528 110,312 other 30 n/a 1,626 262,898 29,024 6,009 23,015 645 46,926 $ 7,783,001 $ 524,098 $ 85,122 $ 438,976 owned properties held for contribution(3): senior housing 25 5,633 units 5,566 1,100,600 20,043 20,043 medical office building 12,880 4,064 8,816 total owned properties 670 52,492 $ 8,883,601 $ 557,021 $ 89,186 $ 467,835 direct financing leases: senior housing 32 3,143 units 1,969 $ 675,500 mortgage loans: hospital 2 170 beds 311 $ 75,083 skilled nursing 4 596 beds 197 19,987 senior housing 5 180 units 189 26,411 total mortgage loans 11 697 $ 121,481 unconsolidated joint ventures: senior housing 4 412 units 235 $ 139 medical office building 14 n/a 789 20,077 total unconsolidated joint ventures 18 1,024 $ 20,216 see note 21 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on our business segments. (1) senior housing facilities are stated in units (e.g., studio, one or two bedroom units). medical office buildings and other healthcare facilities are measured in square feet. hospitals and skilled nursing facilities are measured by licensed bed count. 9 (2) investment for owned properties represents the carrying amount of real estate assets, including intangibles, after adding back accumulated depreciation and amortization, and excludes assets held for sale and classified as discontinued operations. investment for direct financing leases represents the carrying amount of direct financing leases, after deducting interest accretion. investment for mortgage loans receivable and unconsolidated joint ventures represents the carrying amount of our investment. (3) on january 5, 2007, we formed a joint venture for 25 senior housing assets and retained a 35% interest in the venture. the carrying value of the 25 senior housing facilities is classified as real estate held for contribution on our consolidated balance sheet at december 31, 2006. on october 13, 2006, we formed a joint venture with 13 mobs and retained an effective 26% interest in the venture. the disposition of a portion of our interest in the 25 senior housing assets and 13 mobs met the definition under statement of financial accounting standards no. 144 ( sfas no. 144 ) for the assets to qualify as held for sale, however, the operations are not classified as discontinued operations resulting from our continuing interest in the ventures. the operating results of these properties prior to the formation of the ventures are included in the company continuing operations. the number of properties, capacity, square footage, and investment for the 13 mobs are included under the caption of unconsolidated joint ventures. (4) net operating income from continuing operations ( noi ) is a non-gaap supplemental financial measure used to evaluate the operating performance of real estate properties. we define noi as rental revenues, including tenant reimbursements, less property level operating expenses, which excludes depreciation and amortization, general and administrative expenses, impairments, interest expense and discontinued operations. we believe noi provides investors relevant and useful information because it measures the operating performance of our real estate at the property level on an unleveraged basis. we use noi to make decisions about resource allocations and assess property level performance. we believe that net income is the most directly comparable gaap (u.s. generally accepted accounting principals) measure to noi. noi should not be viewed as an alternative measure of operating performance to net income as defined by gaap since it does not reflect the aforementioned excluded items. further, noi may not be comparable to that of other real estate investment trusts, as they may use different methodologies for calculating noi. the following reconciles noi to net income for 2006 (in thousands): amount net operating income from continuing operations $ 467,835 equity loss from unconsolidated joint ventures 8,331 income from direct financing leases 15,008 investment management fee income 3,895 interest and other income 34,832 interest expense (213,304 ) depreciation and amortization (144,215 ) general and administrative expense (47,370 ) impairments (3,577 ) minority interests (14,805 ) total discontinued operations 310,917 net income $ 417,547 10 unconsolidated joint ventures the following is summarized unaudited information for our unconsolidated joint ventures as of and for the year ended december 31, 2006 (square feet and dollars in thousands): 2006 property type number of properties capacity(1) square feet joint venture investment(2) total revenues total operating expenses senior housing 4 412 units 235 $ 20,178 $ 2,303 $ 1,428 medical office building 14 n/a 789 150,875 5,205 1,674 total 18 1,024 $ 171,053 $ 7,508 $ 3,102 (1) senior housing facilities are stated in units (e.g., studio, one or two bedroom units) and medical office buildings are measured in square feet. (2) represents the carrying amount of real estate assets within the joint ventures, including intangibles, after adding back accumulated depreciation and amortization. healthcare sectors and property types we have investments in senior housing facilities, medical office buildings, hospitals, skilled nursing facilities, and other healthcare facilities. certain tenants of our properties are reliant on government reimbursements, such as those from medicare and medicaid. see governmental regulation for the potential impact on the value of our investments and our results of operations. the following describes the nature of the operations of our tenants and borrowers. senior housing facilities. we have interests in 337 senior housing facilities, including four properties in unconsolidated joint ventures. senior housing properties include ilfs, alfs and ccrcs, which cater to different segments of the elderly population based upon their needs. services provided by our tenants in these facilities are primarily paid for by the residents directly or through private insurance and are less reliant on government reimbursement programs such as medicaid and medicare. independent living facilities. ilfs are designed to meet the needs of seniors who choose to live in an environment surrounded by their peers with services such as housekeeping, meals and activities. these residents generally do not need assistance with activities of daily living ( adls ), including bathing, eating and dressing. however, residents have the option to contract for these services. assisted living facilities. alfs are licensed care facilities that provide personal care services, support and housing for those who need help with adls yet require limited medical care. the programs and services may include transportation, social activities, exercise and fitness programs, beauty or barber shop access, hobby and craft activities, community excursions, meals in a dining room setting and other activities sought by residents. these facilities are often in apartment-like buildings with private residences ranging from single rooms to large apartments. certain alfs may offer higher levels of personal assistance for residents with alzheimer disease or other forms of dementia. levels of personal assistance are based in part on local regulations. continuing care retirement communities. ccrcs provide housing and health-related services under long-term contracts. this alternative is appealing to residents as it eliminates the need for relocating when health and medical needs change, thus allowing residents to age in place. some ccrcs require a substantial entry fee or buy-in fee, and most also charge monthly maintenance fees in exchange for a living unit, meals and some health services. ccrcs typically require the individual to be in relatively good health and independent upon entry. 11 medical office buildings. we have interests in 260 mobs, including 14 properties owned by unconsolidated joint ventures. these facilities typically contain physicians offices and examination rooms, and may also include pharmacies, hospital ancillary service space and outpatient services such as diagnostic centers, rehabilitation clinics and day-surgery operating rooms. while these facilities are similar to commercial office buildings, they require more plumbing, electrical and mechanical systems to accommodate multiple exam rooms that may require sinks in every room, brighter lights and special equipment such as medical gases. hospitals. we have interests in 35 hospitals, which include 13 acute care, 11 rehabilitation, four long-term acute care and seven specialty hospitals. services provided by our tenants in these facilities are paid for by private sources, third-party payors (e.g., insurance and hmos), or through the medicare and medicaid programs. acute care hospitals. acute care hospitals offer a wide range of services such as fully-equipped operating and recovery rooms, obstetrics, radiology, intensive care, open heart surgery and coronary care, neurosurgery, neonatal intensive care, magnetic resonance imaging, nursing units, oncology, clinical laboratories, respiratory therapy, physical therapy, nuclear medicine, rehabilitation services and outpatient services. long-term acute care hospitals. long-term acute care hospitals provide care for patients with complex medical conditions that require longer stays and more intensive care, monitoring, or emergency back-up than that available in most skilled nursing-based programs. specialty hospitals . specialty hospitals are licensed as acute care hospitals but focus on providing care in specific areas such as cardiac, orthopedic and women conditions or specific procedures such as surgery and are less likely to provide emergency services. rehabilitation hospitals. rehabilitation hospitals provide inpatient and outpatient care for patients who have sustained traumatic injuries or illnesses, such as spinal cord injuries, strokes, head injuries, orthopedic problems, work-related disabilities and neurological diseases. skilled nursing facilities. we have interests in 69 snfs. snfs offer restorative, rehabilitative and custodial nursing care for people not requiring the more extensive and sophisticated treatment available at hospitals. ancillary revenues and revenue from sub-acute care services are derived from providing services to residents beyond room and board and include occupational, physical, speech, respiratory and intravenous therapy, wound care, oncology treatment, brain injury care and orthopedic therapy as well as sales of pharmaceutical products and other services. certain skilled nursing facilities provide some of the foregoing services on an out-patient basis. skilled nursing services provided by our tenants in these facilities are primarily paid for either by private sources, or through the medicare and medicaid programs. other healthcare facilities. we have investments in 30 healthcare laboratory and biotech research facilities. these facilities are designed to accommodate research and development in the bio-pharmaceutical industry, drug discovery and development, and predictive and personalized medicine. our investments include physician group practice clinic facilities, health and wellness centers, and facilities used for other healthcare purposes. the physician group practice clinics generally provide a broad range of medical services through organized physician groups representing various medical specialties. health and wellness centers provide testing and preventative health maintenance services. 12 investment products owned and joint venture property investments the company holds its investments as wholly owned or in the form of unconsolidated joint ventures with third-party investors. as of december 31, 2006, we had investments in 731 properties, including 18 properties through joint ventures. whether owned wholly or through joint ventures, the owned properties may be characterized as one of three types: triple-net leased property, operating property or development property. triple-net leased properties: triple-net leased properties are primarily single-tenant buildings leased to a healthcare provider under a triple-net lease. pursuant to triple-net leases, tenants pay base rent and all operating expenses incurred at the property, including utilities, property taxes, insurance, and repairs and maintenance. certain leases contain annual base rent escalations based on a predetermined fixed rate, an inflation index or some other factor. other leases may require tenants to pay additional rent based upon the operator achievement of specific performance thresholds. the amount of additional rent may be based on a percentage of the facility revenues in excess of revenues for a specific base period or on the funds available for lease payment after base rent and operating expenses. as of december 31, 2006, the weighted average remaining term, excluding unexercised renewal options, on our triple-net leased properties is approximately 11 years. we typically require credit enhancements to cover short falls in the event the tenant does not generate enough cash flow to pay rent. the ability of certain senior housing lessees to satisfy their obligations under leases acquired from crp depends primarily on the properties operating results. some of these leases have credit enhancements that have either expired or will expire either by the passage of time or upon the full utilization of the credit enhancement. in addition, the terms of certain leases acquired in the crp acquisition also provide for the tenant to maintain reserves to fund expenditures to refurbish buildings, premises and equipment to maintain the facilities in a manner that allows for the operation of the facilities for their intended purpose. to the extent the credit enhancements or reserves are inadequate, the tenant may not be able to make rent payments to us when due or we may be required to fund such amounts. the first year annual base rental rates on properties we acquired during 2006 ranged from 6.8% to 9.0% of the purchase price of the property. rental rates vary by lease, taking into consideration many factors, including: creditworthiness of the tenant; operating performance of the facility; credit support arrangements; cost of capital at the inception of the lease; location, type and physical condition of the facility; barriers to entry, such as certificates of need, competitive development and constraining high land costs; and lease term. 13 operating properties: our operating properties are typically multi-tenant medical office buildings that are leased to multiple healthcare providers (hospitals and physician practices) under a gross, modified gross or net lease structure. under a gross or modified gross lease, all or a portion of operating expenses are not reimbursed by tenants. most of our owned mobs are managed by third-party property management companies and 21 are leased on a net basis while 239 are leased to multiple tenants under gross or modified gross leases pursuant to which we are responsible for certain operating expenses. regardless of lease structure, most of our leases at operating properties include annual base rent escalation clauses that are either predetermined fixed increases or are a function of an inflation index, and typically have an initial term ranging from one to 15 years, with a weighted average remaining term of approximately five years as of december 31, 2006. the following table reflects the annual reduction in revenue (based on 2007 contractual lease payments) for owned triple-net leased and operating properties resulting from lease expirations, absent the impact of renewals, if any (in thousands): year triple-net leased operating properties total(1) 2007 $ 5,587 $ 35,811 $ 41,398 2008 8,752 40,158 48,910 2009 45,670 33,601 79,271 2010 9,931 37,850 47,781 2011 17,573 25,781 43,354 thereafter 410,559 104,204 514,763 total $ 498,072 $ 277,405 $ 775,477 (1) excludes direct financing leases, assets classified as held for contribution, and assets held for sale and classified as discontinued operations. development properties: we generally commit to development projects only if they are at least 50% pre-leased. we use internal and external construction management expertise to evaluate local market conditions, construction costs and other factors to seek appropriate risk-adjusted returns. during 2006, we completed and placed into service approximately $36 million of development properties. investment management platform: we co-invest in real estate with institutional investors through partnerships, limited liability companies, and joint ventures. we target investors with long-term investment horizons who seek to benefit from our expertise in healthcare real estate. typically, we retain interests in the ventures ranging from 20% to 35% and serve as the managing member. our co-investment ventures generally allow us to earn acquisition fees, asset management fees or priority distributions, and have the potential for promoted interests or incentive distributions based on performance of the venture. on october 27, 2006 and january 5, 2007, a total of $1.3 billion in medical office and senior housing assets were placed into joint ventures. investments in secured loans, direct financing leases and debt securities we have investments in 10 mortgage loans secured by 11 properties that are owned and operated by 9 healthcare providers. our secured loan investments typically consist of senior mortgages or mezzanine financing on individual properties or a pool of properties. at december 31, 2006, the carrying amount of these mortgage loans totaled $121.5 million. the interest rates on mortgage loans outstanding at 14 december 31, 2006 ranged from 7.5% to 13.5% per annum. our mortgage loans generally include prepayment penalties or yield maintenance provisions. at december 31, 2006 we had investments in 32 properties that are accounted for under direct financing leases with original terms that range from five to 35 years. certain leases contain provisions that allow the tenants to elect to purchase the properties during or at the end of the lease terms for the aggregate initial investment amount plus adjustments, if any, as defined in the lease agreements. we also have investments in senior secured second lien notes of hca inc., which are classified as debt securities and are recorded at fair value. at december 31, 2006, the fair value of these senior secured notes was $322.5 million and they are classified as available for sale. these notes accrue interest at a rate of 9.625%, mature in 2016, and are secured by second-priority liens on hca and its subsidiary guarantors assets. the issuer of these notes may elect to pay interest in cash, by increasing the principal amount of the notes for the entire amount of the interest payments, or by paying half of the interest in cash and half in additional notes. the first payment due on may 15, 2007 is payable only in cash. after november 15, 2011, all interest on these notes will be payable in cash. if the issuer elects to pay with additional principal amounts or additional notes, the accrual rate is at 10.375%. operator concentration the following table provides information about the concentration of business with our top five operators for the year ended december 31, 2006 (dollars in thousands): operators facilities investment(1) percentage of revenue(2) sunrise senior living (nyse:srz) ( sunrise ) 106 $ 2,245,673 5 % brookdale senior living inc. (nyse:bkd) ( brookdale ) 23 668,637 8 tenet healthcare corporation (nyse:thc) ( tenet ) 8 423,497 9 summerville healthcare group ( summerville ) 31 274,842 4 emeritus corporation (amex:esc) ( emeritus ) 36 245,676 5 (1) represents the carrying amount of real estate assets, including intangibles, after adding back accumulated depreciation and amortization. (2) 106 properties managed by sunrise and six properties managed by brookdale were acquired from crp on october 5, 2006. all of our properties associated with the aforementioned operators are primarily under triple-net leases. these operators, excluding summerville, are subject to the informational filing requirements of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, and are required to file periodic reports with the securities and exchange commission. financial and other information relating to these operators may be obtained from their public reports. according to public disclosures by tenet and sunrise, these companies are experiencing various legal, financial, and regulatory difficulties. we cannot predict with certainty the impact, if any, of the outcome of these uncertainties on their financial condition. the failure or inability of these operators to pay their obligations could materially reduce our revenues, net income and cash flows, which could in turn reduce the amount of cash available for the payment of dividends, cause our stock price to decline and cause us to incur impairment charges or a loss on the sale of the properties. one of our hospitals located in tarzana, california is operated by tenet and is affected by state of california senate bill 1953, which requires certain seismic safety building standards for acute care hospital facilities. see government regulation california senate bill 1953 for more information. 15 joint ventures consolidated joint ventures at december 31, 2006, we held ownership interests in 23 consolidated limited liability companies and partnerships that together own 85 properties and one mortgage, and an interest in one unconsolidated joint venture including the following: a 77% interest in health care property partners, which owns two hospitals, seven skilled nursing facilities and has one mortgage on a skilled nursing facility. a 93% interest in hcpi/sorrento, llc, which owns a life science facility. a 90% interest in hcpi vpi sorrento ii, llc, which owns four laboratory, office and biotechnology manufacturing buildings. a 95% interest in hcpi/indiana, llc, which owns six medical office buildings. a 36% interest in hcpi/tennessee, llc, which owns 14 medical office buildings and one assisted living facility. a 70% interest in hcpi/utah, llc, which owns 18 medical office buildings. a 66% interest in hcpi/utah ii, llc, which owns eight medical office buildings and eight other healthcare facilities. a 75% interest in hcp dr california, llc, which owns four independent and assisted living facilities. an 85% interest in hcp birmingham portfolio llc, which owns a 30% interest in hcp ventures iii, llc. hcp ventures iii, llc owns 13 medical office buildings. unconsolidated joint ventures at december 31, 2006, we held ownership interests in six unconsolidated limited liability companies and partnerships that together own 18 properties as follows: an effective 26% interest in hcp ventures iii, llc which owns 13 medical office buildings. a 45% to 50% interest in each of four limited liability companies (seminole shores living center, llc 50%, edgewood assisted living center, llc 45%, arborwood living center, llc 45%, and greenleaf living center, llc 45%) which each own an assisted living facility. a 67% interest in suburban properties, llc which owns one medical office building. taxation of hcp we believe that we have operated in such a manner as to qualify for taxation as a reit under sections 856 to 860 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code ), commencing with our taxable year ended december 31, 1985, and we intend to continue to operate in such a manner. no assurance can be given that we have operated or will be able to continue to operate in a manner so as to qualify or to remain so qualified. this summary is qualified in its entirety by the applicable code provisions, rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, and administrative and judicial interpretations thereof. if we qualify for taxation as a reit, we will generally not be required to pay federal corporate income taxes on the portion of our net income that is currently distributed to stockholders. this treatment substantially eliminates the double taxation (i.e., at the corporate and stockholder levels) that generally 16 results from investment in a corporation. however, we will be required to pay federal income tax under certain circumstances. the code defines a reit as a corporation, trust or association (i) which is managed by one or more trustees or directors; (ii) the beneficial ownership of which is evidenced by transferable shares, or by transferable certificates of beneficial interest; (iii) which would be taxable, but for sections 856 through 860 of the code, as a domestic corporation; (iv) which is neither a financial institution nor an insurance company subject to certain provisions of the code; (v) the beneficial ownership of which is held by 100 or more persons; (vi) during the last half of each taxable year not more than 50% in value of the outstanding stock of which is owned, actually or constructively, by five or fewer individuals; and (vii) which meets certain other tests, described below, regarding the amount of its distributions and the nature of its income and assets. the code provides that conditions (i) to (iv), inclusive, must be met during the entire taxable year and that condition (v) must be met during at least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months, or during a proportionate part of a taxable year of less than 12 months. there are presently two gross income requirements. first, at least 75% of our gross income (excluding gross income from prohibited transactions as defined below) for each taxable year must be derived directly or indirectly from investments relating to real property or mortgages on real property or from certain types of temporary investment income. second, at least 95% of our gross income (excluding gross income from prohibited transactions) for each taxable year must be derived from income that qualifies under the 75% test and all other dividends, interest and gain from the sale or other disposition of stock or securities. a prohibited transaction is a sale or other disposition of property (other than foreclosure property) held for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. at the close of each quarter of our taxable year, we must also satisfy four tests relating to the nature of our assets. first, at least 75% of the value of our total assets must be represented by real estate assets, certain stock or debt instruments purchased with the proceeds of a stock offering or long term public debt offering by us (but only for the one-year period after such offering), cash, cash items and government securities. second, not more than 25% of our total assets may be represented by securities other than those in the 75% asset class. third, of the investments included in the 25% asset class, the value of any one issuer securities owned by us may not exceed 5% of the value of our total assets and we may not own more than 10% of the vote or value of the securities of a non-reit corporation, other than certain debt securities and interests in taxable reit subsidiaries or qualified reit subsidiaries, each as defined below. fourth, not more than 20% of the value of our total assets may be represented by securities of one or more taxable reit subsidiaries. we own interests in various partnerships and limited liability companies. in the case of a reit that is a partner in a partnership or a member of a limited liability company that is treated as a partnership under the code, treasury regulations provide that for purposes of the reit income and asset tests, the reit will be deemed to own its proportionate share of the assets of the partnership or limited liability company (determined in accordance with its capital interest in the entity), subject to special rules related to the 10% asset test, and will be deemed to be entitled to the income of the partnership or limited liability company attributable to such share. the ownership of an interest in a partnership or limited liability company by a reit may involve special tax risks, including the challenge by the internal revenue service (the service ) of the allocations of income and expense items of the partnership or limited liability company, which would affect the computation of taxable income of the reit, and the status of the partnership or limited liability company as a partnership (as opposed to an association taxable as a corporation) for federal income tax purposes. we also own interests in a number of subsidiaries which are intended to be treated as qualified reit subsidiaries (each a qrs ). the code provides that such subsidiaries will be ignored for federal income tax purposes and all assets, liabilities and items of income, deduction and credit of such subsidiaries will be 17 treated as our assets, liabilities and such items. if any partnership, limited liability company, or subsidiary in which we own an interest were treated as a regular corporation (and not as a partnership, qrs or taxable reit subsidiary, as the case may be) for federal income tax purposes, we would likely fail to satisfy the reit asset tests described above and would therefore fail to qualify as a reit, unless certain relief provisions apply. we believe that each of the partnerships, limited liability companies, and subsidiaries (other than taxable reit subsidiaries) in which we own an interest will be treated for tax purposes as a partnership, or disregarded entity (in the case of a 100% owned partnership or limited liability company) or qrs, as applicable, although no assurance can be given that the service will not successfully challenge the status of any such organization. as of december 31, 2006, we owned interests in two subsidiaries which are intended to be treated as taxable reit subsidiaries (each a trs ). a reit may own any percentage of the voting stock and value of the securities of a corporation which jointly elects with the reit to be a trs, provided certain requirements are met. a trs generally may engage in any business, including the provision of customary or noncustomary services to tenants of its parent reit and of others, except a trs may not manage or operate a hotel or healthcare facility. a trs is treated as a regular corporation and is subject to federal income tax and applicable state income and franchise taxes at regular corporate rates. in addition, a 100% tax may be imposed on a reit if its rental, service or other agreements with its trs, or the trs agreements with the reit tenants, are not on arm s-length terms. in order to qualify as a reit, we are required to distribute dividends (other than capital gain dividends) to our stockholders in an amount at least equal to (a) the sum of (i) 90% of our real estate investment trust taxable income (computed without regard to the dividends paid deduction and our net capital gain) and (ii) 90% of the net income, if any (after tax), from foreclosure property, minus (b) the sum of certain items of non-cash income. such distributions must be paid in the taxable year to which they relate, or in the following taxable year if declared before we timely file our tax return for such year, if paid on or before the first regular dividend payment date after such declaration and if we so elect and specify the dollar amount in our tax return. to the extent that we do not distribute all of our net long-term capital gain or distribute at least 90%, but less than 100%, of our real estate investment trust taxable income , as adjusted, we will be required to pay tax thereon at regular corporate tax rates. furthermore, if we should fail to distribute during each calendar year at least the sum of (i) 85% of our ordinary income for such year, (ii) 95% of our capital gain income for such year, and (iii) any undistributed taxable income from prior periods, we would be required to pay a 4% excise tax on the excess of such required distributions over the amounts actually distributed. if we fail to qualify for taxation as a reit in any taxable year, and certain relief provisions do not apply, we will be required to pay tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. distributions to stockholders in any year in which we fail to qualify will not be deductible by us nor will they be required to be made. unless entitled to relief under specific statutory provisions, we will also be disqualified from taxation as a reit for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost. it is not possible to state whether in all circumstances we would be entitled to the statutory relief. failure to qualify for even one year could substantially reduce distributions to stockholders and could result in our incurring substantial indebtedness (to the extent borrowings are feasible) or liquidating substantial investments in order to pay the resulting taxes. we and our stockholders may be required to pay state or local tax in various state or local jurisdictions, including those in which we or they transact business or reside. the state and local tax treatment of us and our stockholders may not conform to the federal income tax consequences discussed above. 18 we may also be subject to certain taxes applicable to reits, including taxes in lieu of disqualification as a reit, on undistributed income, on income from prohibited transactions, on net income from foreclosure property and on built-in gains from the sale of certain assets acquired from c corporations in tax-free transactions. government regulation the healthcare industry is heavily regulated by federal, state and local laws. this government regulation of the healthcare industry affects us because: (1) governmental regulations such as licensure, certification for participation in government programs, and government reimbursement may impact the financial ability of some of our operators to make rent and debt payments to us, which in turn may affect the value of our investments, and (2) the amount of reimbursement such operators receive from the government and other third parties may affect the amounts we receive in additional rents, which are often based on our operators gross revenue from operations. these laws and regulations are subject to frequent and substantial changes resulting from legislation, adoption of rules and regulations, and administrative and judicial interpretations of existing law. these changes may have a dramatic effect on the definition of permissible or impermissible activities, the relative costs associated with doing business and the amount of reimbursement by government and other third-party payors. these changes may be applied retroactively. the ultimate timing or effect of these changes cannot be predicted. the failure of any tenant or borrower to comply with such laws, regulations and requirements could affect its ability to operate its facility or facilities and could adversely affect such operator ability to make lease or debt payments to us, which in turn may affect the value of our investments. fraud and abuse laws. there are various federal and state laws prohibiting fraud and abusive business practices by healthcare providers who participate in, receive payments from or are in a position to make referrals in connection with a government-sponsored healthcare program, including, but not limited to, the medicare and medicaid programs. these include: the federal anti-kickback statute, which prohibits, among other things, the offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for, or to induce, the referral of medicare and medicaid patients. the federal physician self-referral prohibition (stark), which restricts physicians from making referrals for certain designated health services for which payment may be made under medicare or medicaid programs to an entity with which the physician (or an immediate family member) has a financial relationship. the false claims act, which prohibits any person from knowingly presenting false or fraudulent claims for payment to the federal government (including the medicare and medicaid programs). the civil monetary penalties law, which is imposed by the department of health and human services for fraudulent acts. each of these laws include criminal and/or civil penalties for violations that range from punitive sanctions, damage assessments, penalties, imprisonment, denial of medicare and medicaid payments, and/or exclusion from the medicare and medicaid programs. imposition of any of these types of penalties on our tenants or borrowers could result in a material adverse effect on their operations, which could adversely affect our business. additionally, certain laws, such as the false claims act, allow for individuals to bring qui tam (whistleblower) actions on behalf of the government for violations of fraud and abuse 19 laws. some medicare administrative contractors (private companies that contract with centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services ( cms ) to administer the medicare program) have also increased scrutiny of cost reports filed by skilled nursing providers. environmental matters. a wide variety of federal, state and local environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations affect healthcare facility operations. under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner of real property or a secured lender (such as us) may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances at, under or disposed of in connection with such property, as well as other potential costs relating to hazardous or toxic substances (including government fines and damages for injuries to persons and adjacent property). the cost of any required remediation, removal, fines or personal or property damages and the owner or secured lender liability therefore could exceed the value of the property, and/or the assets of the owner or secured lender. in addition, the presence of such substances, or the failure to properly dispose of or remediate such substances, may adversely affect the owner ability to sell or rent such property or to borrow using such property as collateral which, in turn, would reduce our revenue. although the mortgage loans that we provide and the leases covering our properties require the borrower and the tenant to indemnify us for certain environmental liabilities, the scope of such obligations may be limited and we cannot assure that any such borrower or tenant would be able to fulfill its indemnification obligations. the medicare and medicaid programs. sources of revenue for operators may include the federal medicare program, state medicaid programs, private insurance carriers, healthcare service plans and health maintenance organizations, among others. efforts to reduce costs by these payors will likely continue, which may result in reduced or slower growth in reimbursement for certain services provided by some of our operators. in addition, the failure of any of our operators to comply with various laws and regulations could jeopardize their certification and ability to continue to participate in the medicare and medicaid programs. medicaid programs differ from state to state but they are all subject to federally-imposed requirements. at least 50% of the funds available under these programs are provided by the federal government under a matching program. medicaid programs generally pay for acute and rehabilitative care based on reasonable costs at fixed rates; skilled nursing facilities are generally reimbursed using fixed daily rates. medicaid payments are generally below retail rates for tenant-operated facilities, and the deficit reduction act of 2005 may further reduce medicaid reimbursement, as the act included cuts of approximately $4.8 billion over five years to the medicaid program. increasingly, states have introduced managed care contracting techniques into the administration of medicaid programs. such mechanisms could have the impact of reducing utilization of and reimbursement to facilities. other third-party payors in various states base payments on costs, retail rates or, increasingly, negotiated rates. negotiated rates can include discounts from normal charges, fixed daily rates and prepaid capitated rates. healthcare facilities. the healthcare facilities in our portfolio, including hospitals, skilled nursing facilities, assisted living facilities, and physician group practice clinics, are subject to extensive federal, state and local licensure, certification and inspection laws and regulations. failure to comply with any of these laws could result in loss of accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension or decertification from federal and state healthcare programs, loss of license or closure of the facility. such actions may have an effect on the revenue of the operators of properties owned by or mortgaged to us and therefore adversely impact us. entrance fee communities. certain of the senior housing facilities mortgaged to or owned by us are operated as entrance fee communities. generally, an entrance fee is an upfront fee or consideration paid by a resident, a portion of which may be refundable, in exchange for some form of long-term benefit. some of the entrance fee communities are subject to significant state regulatory oversight, including, for example, oversight of each facility financial condition, establishment and monitoring of reserve requirements and other financial restrictions, the right of residents to cancel their contracts within a 20 specified period of time, lien rights in favor of the residents, restrictions on change of ownership and similar matters. such oversight and the rights of residents within these entrance fee communities may have an effect on the revenue or operations of the operators of such facilities and therefore may adversely impact us. california senate bill 1953. our hospital located in tarzana, california is affected by state of california senate bill 1953 (sb 1953), which requires certain seismic safety building standards for acute care hospital facilities. this hospital is operated by tenet under a lease expiring in february 2009. we and tenet are currently reviewing the sb 1953 compliance of this hospital, multiple plans of action to cause such compliance, the estimated time for completing the same, and the cost of performing necessary remediation of the property. we cannot currently estimate the remediation costs that will need to be incurred prior to 2013 in order to make the facility sb 1953-compliant through 2030, or the final allocation of any remediation costs between us and tenet. rent on the hospital in 2006 and 2005 was $10.8 million in each year and the carrying amount of the facility is $73.9 million at december 31, 2006. current developments the healthcare industry continues to face various challenges, including increased government and private payor pressure on healthcare providers to control costs, the migration of patients from acute care facilities into extended care and home care settings, and the vertical and horizontal consolidation of healthcare providers. changes in the law, new interpretations of existing laws, and changes in payment methodologies may have a dramatic effect on the definition of permissible or impermissible activities, the relative costs associated with doing business and the amount of reimbursement furnished by government and other third-party payors. these changes may be applied retroactively under certain circumstances. the ultimate timing or effect of legislative efforts cannot be predicted and may impact us in different ways. in december of 2003, the medicare prescription drug, improvement and modernization act of 2003 (the act ) was signed into law. the act established an 18-month moratorium on the whole hospital exception to the stark law, whereby physicians have been permitted to refer patients for designated health services to hospitals in which they have an ownership interest. on august 8, 2006, cms released its final report and plan to address issues relating to physician investment in specialty hospitals. specialty hospitals include hospitals primarily or exclusively engaged in the care and treatment of cardiac conditions or orthopedic conditions, or hospitals that perform certain surgical procedures. cms strategic plan includes strict enforcement of federal fraud and abuse laws for improper investments, disclosure of information regarding physician investment and compensation arrangements, acceptance of emergency transfer cases even if the specialty hospital lacks an emergency department, and changes to the hospital inpatient prospective and ambulatory surgical center payment systems. cms declined to extend the moratorium on approving new specialty hospitals, despite a request for an extension by two senators. in light of continued interest in specialty hospital regulation, there is a risk that legislation could be adopted that affects the operation of specialty hospitals. the specialty hospital issue is controversial and after significant discussion and legislation, the current federal government permitted operation of specialty hospitals; however, there can be no assurance that a new congress or administration would continue similar treatment of specialty hospitals. our hospital tenants may face additional competition from an increased number of specialty hospitals, including specialty hospitals owned by physicians currently on staff at tenant hospitals. in addition to the reforms enacted and considered by congress from time to time, state legislatures periodically consider various healthcare reform proposals. congress and state legislatures can be expected to continue to review and assess alternative healthcare delivery systems, new regulatory enforcement initiatives, and new payment methodologies. 21 we believe that government and private efforts to contain or reduce healthcare costs will continue. these trends are likely to lead to reduced or slower growth in reimbursement for certain services provided by some of our operators. in addition, recent trends of hospitals providing more services to uninsured patients or on an outpatient basis rather than inpatient basis may continue and could adversely affect the profitability of our operators. we believe that the vast nature of the healthcare industry, the financial strength and operating flexibility of our operators, and the diversity of our portfolio will mitigate the impact of any such trends. however, we cannot predict what legislation will be adopted, and no assurance can be given that the healthcare reforms will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. employees at december 31, 2006, we had 165 full-time employees and no part-time employees, none of whom are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. we consider our relations with our employees to be good. item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider the risks described below as well as the risks described in competition, government regulation, and taxation of hcp and elsewhere in this report, which risks are incorporated by reference into this section, before making an investment decision regarding our company. the risks and uncertainties described herein are not the only ones facing us and there may be additional risks that we do not presently know of or that we currently consider not likely to have a significant impact. all of these risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. risks related to our operators if our facility operators are unable to operate our properties in a manner sufficient to generate income, they may be unable to make rent and loan payments to us. the healthcare industry is highly competitive and we expect that it may become more competitive in the future. our operators are subject to competition from other healthcare providers that provide similar services. such competition, which has intensified due to overbuilding in some segments in which we operate, has caused the fill-up rate of newly constructed buildings to slow and the monthly rate that many newly built and previously existing facilities were able to obtain for their services to decrease. the profitability of healthcare facilities depends upon several factors, including the number of physicians using the healthcare facilities or referring patients there, competitive systems of healthcare delivery and the size and composition of the population in the surrounding area. private, federal and state payment programs and the effect of other laws and regulations may also have a significant influence on the revenues and income of the properties. if our operators are not competitive with other healthcare providers and are unable to generate income, they may be unable to make rent and loan payments to us, which could adversely affect our cash flow and financial performance and condition. the bankruptcy, insolvency or financial deterioration of our facility operators could significantly delay our ability to collect unpaid rents or require us to find new operators. our financial position and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders may be adversely affected by financial difficulties experienced by any of our major operators, including bankruptcy, insolvency or a general downturn in the business, or in the event any of our major operators do not renew or extend their relationship with us as their lease terms expire. we are exposed to the risk that our operators may not be able to meet their obligations, which may result in their bankruptcy or insolvency. although our leases and loans provide us the right to terminate an investment, evict an operator, demand immediate repayment and other remedies, the bankruptcy laws 22 afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization. an operator in bankruptcy may be able to restrict our ability to collect unpaid rents or interest during the bankruptcy proceeding. tenet healthcare corporation and sunrise senior living account for a significant percentage of our revenues and are currently experiencing significant legal, financial and regulatory difficulties. during 2006, tenet healthcare corporation and sunrise senior living accounted for approximately 9% and 5%, respectively, of our revenues. the properties managed by sunrise were acquired from crp on october 5, 2006. according to public disclosures, tenet and sunrise are experiencing significant legal, financial and regulatory difficulties. we cannot predict with certainty the impact, if any, of the outcome of these uncertainties on our consolidated financial statements. the failure or inability of tenet or sunrise to pay its obligations could materially reduce our revenue, net income and cash flows, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock and could cause us to incur impairment charges or a loss on the sale of the properties. our operators are faced with increased litigation and rising insurance costs that may affect their ability to make their lease or mortgage payments. in some states, advocacy groups have been created to monitor the quality of care at healthcare facilities, and these groups have brought litigation against operators. also, in several instances, private litigation by patients has succeeded in winning very large damage awards for alleged abuses. the effect of this litigation and potential litigation has been to materially increase the costs incurred by our operators for monitoring and reporting quality of care compliance. in addition, the cost of liability and medical malpractice insurance has increased and may continue to increase so long as the present litigation environment affecting the operations of healthcare facilities continues. continued cost increases could cause our operators to be unable to make their lease or mortgage payments, potentially decreasing our revenue and increasing our collection and litigation costs. moreover, to the extent we are required to take back the affected facilities, our revenue from those facilities could be reduced or eliminated for an extended period of time. decline in the skilled nursing sector and changes to medicare and medicaid reimbursement rates may have significant adverse consequences to us. during 2006, our skilled nursing properties accounted for approximately 7% of our revenues. certain of our skilled nursing operators and facilities continue to experience operating problems in part due to a national nursing shortage, increased liability insurance costs, and low levels of medicare and medicaid reimbursement. due to economic challenges facing many states, nursing homes will likely continue to be under-funded. these challenges have had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on our long-term care facilities and facility operators. we may rely on credit enhancements to our leases for minimum rent payments. our leases may have credit enhancement provisions, such as guarantees or shortfall reserves provided by tenants or operators. these credit enhancement provisions may terminate at either a specific time during the lease term or once net operating income of the property exceeds a specified amount. these provisions may also have limits on the overall amount of the credit enhancement. after the termination of a credit enhancement, or in the event that the maximum limit of a credit enhancement is reached, we may only look to the tenant to make lease payments. in the event that a credit enhancement has expired or the maximum limit has been reached, or in the event that a provider of a credit enhancement is unable to meet its obligations, our results of operations and our cash available for distribution could be adversely affected if our properties are unable to generate sufficient funds from operations to meet minimum rent payments and the tenants do not otherwise have the resources to make the rent payments. our tenants may be thinly 23 capitalized entities that rely on the cash flow generated from the properties to fund rent obligations under their lease. risks related to real estate investment and our structure we rely on external sources of capital to fund future capital needs, and if our access to such capital is difficult or on commercially unreasonable terms, we may not be able to meet maturing commitments or make future investments necessary to grow our business. in order to qualify as a reit under the internal revenue code, we are required, among other things, to distribute to our stockholders each year at least 90% of our reit taxable income. because of this distribution requirement, we may not be able to fund all future capital needs, including capital needs in connection with acquisitions, from cash retained from operations. as a result, we rely on external sources of capital. if we are unable to obtain needed capital at all or only on unfavorable terms from these sources, we might not be able to make the investments needed to grow our business, or to meet our obligations and commitments as they mature, which could negatively affect the ratings of our debt and even, in extreme circumstances, affect our ability to continue operations. our access to capital depends upon a number of factors over which we have little or no control, including: general market conditions; the market perception of our growth potential; our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions; and the market price of the shares of our capital stock. if we are unable to identify and purchase suitable healthcare facilities at a favorable cost, we will be unable to continue to grow through acquisitions. our ability to grow through acquisitions is integral to our business strategy and requires us to identify suitable acquisition candidates that meet our criteria and are compatible with our growth strategy. the acquisition and financing of healthcare facilities at favorable costs is highly competitive. we may not be successful in identifying suitable property or other assets that meet our acquisition criteria or in consummating acquisitions on satisfactory terms or at all. if we cannot identify and purchase a sufficient quantity of healthcare facilities at favorable prices, or if we are unable to finance such acquisitions on commercially favorable terms, our business will suffer. unforeseen costs associated with the acquisition of new properties could reduce our profitability. our business strategy contemplates future acquisitions. the acquisitions we make may not prove to be successful. we might encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired properties, including contingent liabilities. further, newly acquired properties might require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. we might never realize the anticipated benefits of an acquisition, which could adversely affect our profitability. since real estate investments are illiquid, we may not be able to sell properties when we desire. real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly. we may not be able to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changes in the real estate market. this inability to respond to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our ability to service our debt. the real estate market is affected by many factors that are beyond our control, including: adverse changes in national and local economic and market conditions; changes in interest rates and in the availability, costs and terms of financing; 24 changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning and other ordinances and costs of compliance with laws and regulations; the ongoing need for capital improvements, particularly in older structures; changes in operating expenses; and civil unrest, acts of war and natural disasters, including earthquakes and floods, which may result in uninsured and underinsured losses. we cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms set by us, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. we also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. in addition, there are provisions under the federal income tax laws applicable to reits that may limit our ability to recognize the full economic benefit from a sale of our assets. these factors and any others that would impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. transfers of healthcare facilities generally require regulatory approvals, and alternative uses of healthcare facilities are limited. because transfers of healthcare facilities may be subject to regulatory approvals not required for transfers of other types of commercial operations and other types of real estate, there may be delays in transferring operations of our facilities to successor operators or we may be prohibited from transferring operations to a successor operator. in addition, substantially all of our properties are healthcare facilities that may not be easily adapted to non-healthcare-related uses. if we are unable to transfer properties at times opportune to us, our revenue and operations may suffer. we may experience uninsured or underinsured losses. we generally require our operators to secure and maintain comprehensive liability and property insurance that covers us, as well as the operators, on most of our properties. some types of losses, however, either may be uninsurable or too expensive to insure against. should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property. in such an event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. we cannot assure you that material losses in excess of insurance proceeds will not occur in the future. increases in interest rates may increase our interest expense and adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to service our indebtedness. at december 31, 2006, our total consolidated indebtedness was approximately $6.2 billion, of which approximately $1.7 billion, or 27%, is subject to variable interest rates. this variable rate debt had a weighted average interest rate of approximately 6.1% per annum. increases in interest rates on this variable rate debt would increase our interest expense, which could harm our cash flow and our ability to service our indebtedness. our acquisition of additional properties may have an adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial position, credit ratings and/or results of operations as part of our business strategy, we actively acquire healthcare facilities. our recent acquisition of crp and crc is an example of the execution of this strategy. we may acquire healthcare facilities through various structures, including transactions involving portfolios, single assets, joint ventures and acquisitions of all or substantially all of the securities or assets of other reits or similar real estate entities. we 25 anticipate that our acquisitions will be financed through a combination of methods, including proceeds from equity and/or debt offerings, advances under our credit facilities and other incurrence or assumption of indebtedness. any significant acquisition or series of acquisitions financed by incurrence of indebtedness may cause us to become highly leveraged and/or have a negative impact on the credit ratings of our senior debt and preferred stock. additionally, newly acquired properties may fail to perform as expected. inaccurate assumptions regarding future rental or occupancy rates could result in overly optimistic estimates of future revenues. similarly, we may underestimate future operating expenses or the costs necessary to bring an acquired property up to standards established for its intended market position. if we are unable to successfully integrate the operations of crp and other target companies, our business and earnings may be negatively affected. mergers involve the integration of companies that have previously operated independently. successful integration of the operations of these companies depend primarily on our ability to consolidate operations, systems, procedures, properties and personnel and to eliminate redundancies and costs. mergers also pose other risks commonly associated with similar transactions, including unanticipated liabilities, unexpected costs and the diversion of management attention to the integration of our operations with those of the target companies. we cannot assure you that we will be able to integrate crp or other target companies operations without encountering difficulties, including, but not limited to, the loss of key employees, the disruption of its respective ongoing businesses or possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies. estimated cost savings are projected to come from various areas that our management has identified through the due diligence and integration planning process. if we have difficulties with any of these areas, we might not achieve the economic benefits we expect to result from the merger, and this may hurt our business and earnings. in addition, we may experience greater than expected costs or difficulties relating to the integration of the business of crp or other target companies and/or may not realize expected cost savings from mergers within the expected time frame, if at all. our business could be adversely impacted if we have deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting. the design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors, misstatements or misrepresentations. while management will continue to review the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, there can be no guarantee that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. in certain circumstances, the effectiveness of internal controls is dependent on information received from independent third parties. for example, we consolidate our investments in certain variable interest entities ( vies ) when it is determined that we are the primary beneficiary of the vie. if management of the consolidated vies fails to provide us necessary financial information either in a timely manner or at all, it could adversely impact our financial reporting and our internal controls over financial reporting. deficiencies, including any material weakness, in our internal controls over financial reporting, which may occur in the future, could result in misstatements of our results of operations, restatements of our financial statements, a decline in our stock price, or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. we lease 76 properties to a total of 9 tenants that have been identified as vies. we acquired these leases (variable interests) on october 5, 2006 in our acquisition of crp. crp determined they were not the primary beneficiary of the vies, and we are generally required to carry forward crp accounting conclusions after the acquisition relative to their primary beneficiary assessment. we may need to reassess whether we are the primary beneficiary in the future upon the occurrence of a reconsideration event, as defined by fin 46r. if we determine that we are the primary beneficiary in the future and consolidate the 26 tenant, our financial statements would reflect the tenant facility level revenues and expenses rather than lease revenue. federal income tax risks loss of our tax status as a reit would have significant adverse consequences to us. we currently operate and have operated commencing with our taxable year ended december 31, 1985 in a manner that is intended to allow us to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes under the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended. qualification as a reit involves the application of highly technical and complex internal revenue code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to qualify as a reit. for example, in order to qualify as a reit, at least 95% of our gross income in any year must be derived from qualifying sources, and we must satisfy a number of requirements regarding the composition of our assets. also, we must make distributions to stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our reit taxable income, excluding capital gains. in addition, new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may adversely affect our investors or our ability to qualify as a reit for tax purposes. although we believe that we have been organized and have operated in such manner, we can give no assurance that we have qualified or will continue to qualify as a reit for tax purposes. if we lose our reit status, we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available to make payments of principal and interest on the debt securities we issue and to make distributions to our stockholders. if we fail to qualify as a reit: we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates; we also could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we could not elect to be subject to tax as a reit for four taxable years following the year during which we were disqualified. in addition, if we fail to qualify as a reit, all distributions to stockholders would be subject to tax as regular corporate dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits and we would not be required to make distributions to stockholders. as a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a reit also could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and could adversely affect the value of our common stock. certain property transfers may generate prohibited transaction income, resulting in a penalty tax on gain attributable to the transaction. from time to time, we may transfer or otherwise dispose of some of our properties. under the internal revenue code, any gain resulting from transfers of properties that we hold as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business would be treated as income from a prohibited transaction subject to a 100% penalty tax. since we acquire properties for investment purposes, we do not believe that our occasional transfers or disposals of property are properly treated as prohibited transactions. however, whether property is held for investment purposes is a question of fact that depends on all the facts and circumstances surrounding the particular transaction. the internal revenue service may contend that certain transfers or disposals of properties by us are prohibited transactions. while we believe that the internal revenue service would not prevail in any such dispute, if the internal revenue service were to argue successfully that a transfer or disposition of property constituted a prohibited transaction, then we would be required to pay a 100% penalty tax on any gain allocable to us from the 27 prohibited transaction. in addition, income from a prohibited transaction might adversely affect our ability to satisfy the income tests for qualification as a real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes. as a result of the crp merger and the crc merger, we may have inherited tax liabilities and attributes from crp and crc. prior to the crp merger, crp was organized as a reit for federal income tax purposes. if crp failed to qualify as a reit for any of its taxable years, it would be required to pay federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on its taxable income at regular corporate rates. unless statutory relief provisions apply, crp would have been disqualified from treatment as a reit for the four taxable years following the year during which it lost qualification. because the crp merger was treated for income tax purposes as if crp sold all of its assets in a taxable transaction to us, if crp did not qualify as a reit for the taxable year of the merger, it would be subject to tax in respect of the built-in gain in all of its assets. built-in gain generally means the excess of the fair market value of an asset over its adjusted tax basis. as successor-in-interest to crp, we would be required to pay these taxes. after the merger, the nature of the assets that we acquired from crp and the income we derive from those assets may have an effect on our tax status as a reit. in connection with the crp merger, crp reit counsel rendered an opinion to us, dated as of the closing date of the merger, to the effect that crp qualified as a reit under the code for the taxable years ending december 31, 1999 generally through december 31, 2005, crp was organized in conformity with the requirements for qualification as a reit, and crp method of operation had enabled crp to satisfy the requirements for qualification as a reit under the code for the taxable years ending on or prior to the closing date of the merger. this opinion was based on various assumptions and representations as to factual matters, including representations made by crp in a factual certificate provided by one of its officers, as well as other oral and written statements of officers and other representatives of crp and others as to the existence and consequence of certain factual and other matters. as a result of the crc merger, we succeeded to the assets and the liabilities of crc, including any liabilities for unpaid taxes and any tax liabilities created in connection with the crc merger. at the closing of the crc merger, we received an opinion of crc counsel, and crc and its stockholders received an opinion of their counsel, substantially to the effect that, on the basis of the facts, representations and assumptions set forth or referred to in such opinions, for federal income tax purposes the crc merger qualified as a reorganization within the meaning of section 368(a) of the code. to the extent that the crc merger so qualified, no gain or loss was recognized by crc or us in the crc merger. if the crc merger did not qualify as a reorganization within the meaning of section 368(a) of the code, the crc merger would have been treated as a sale of crc assets to hcp in a taxable transaction, and crc would have recognized taxable gain. in such a case, as crc successor-in-interest, we would be required to pay the tax on any such gain. assuming that the crc merger qualified as a reorganization under the code, we succeeded to the tax attributes and earnings and profits of crc. to qualify as a reit, we must distribute such earnings and profits by the close of the taxable year in which the crc merger occurred. any adjustments of crc income for taxable years ending on or before the crc merger, including as a result of an examination of crc tax returns by the internal revenue service, could affect the calculation of crc earnings and profits. if the internal revenue service were to determine that we acquired earnings and profits from crc that we failed to distribute prior to the end of the taxable year in which the crc merger occurred, we could avoid disqualification as a reit by using deficiency dividend procedures. under these procedures, we generally would be required to distribute any such earnings and profits to our stockholders within 90 days of the determination and pay a statutory interest charge at a specified rate to the internal revenue service. 28 the opinions of counsel delivered in connection with the crp merger and the crc merger represent the best legal judgment of counsel and are not binding on the internal revenue service or the courts. none of us, crp or crc has requested nor will request a ruling from the internal revenue service as to the status of crp as a reit or the tax consequences of the crc merger, and there can be no assurance that the internal revenue service will agree with the conclusions in the above-described opinions. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk at december 31, 2006, we are exposed to market risks related to fluctuations in interest rates on $215 million of variable rate mortgage notes payable, $0.6 billion of variable rate line of credit, $0.5 billion term loan and $325 million of variable rate senior unsecured notes. of the $215 million of variable rate mortgage notes payable outstanding, $45.6 million has been hedged through interest rate swap contracts. we do not have, and do not plan to enter into, derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. of our consolidated debt of $6.2 billion at december 31, 2006, excluding the $45.6 million of variable rate debt where the rates have been hedged to a fixed rate, approximately 26% is at variable interest rates, which includes a $0.5 billion term loan that was used to pay the cash consideration of our merger with crp. we repaid the remaining balance of the term loan with proceeds from our january 2007 joint venture and capital market transactions, which further reduced our variable interest rate exposure. fluctuation in the interest rates will not affect our future earnings and cash flows on our fixed rate debt until that debt must be replaced or refinanced. however, interest rate changes will affect the fair value of our fixed rate instruments and our hedge contracts. conversely, changes in interest rates on variable rate debt would change our future earnings and cash flows, but not affect the fair value of those instruments. assuming a one percentage point increase in the interest rate related to the variable-rate debt and related swap contracts, and assuming no change in the outstanding balance as of december 31, 2006, interest expense for 2006 would increase by approximately $17 million, or $0.11 per common share on a diluted basis. 54 the principal amount and the average interest rates for our mortgage loans receivable and debt categorized by maturity dates is presented in the table below. the fair value estimates for the mortgage loans receivable are based on the estimates of management and on rates currently prevailing for comparable loans. the fair market value for our debt securities and senior notes payable are based on prevailing market prices. the fair market value estimates for secured loans and mortgage notes payable are based on discounting future cash flows utilizing current rates offered to us for loans and debt of the same type and remaining maturity. maturity 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 thereafter total fair value (dollars in thousands) loans receivable: secured loans receivable $ 7,340 $ 703 $ 10,238 $ 14,549 $ 3,257 $ 85,382 $ 121,469 $ 148,156 weighted average interest rate 4.25 % 10.50 % 9.35 % 10.88 % 10.14 % 8.62 % 9.99 % debt securities available for sale $ $ $ $ $ $ 300,000 $ 300,000 $ 322,500 weighted average interest rate % % 9.63 % liabilities: variable rate debt: bank notes payable $ $ 504,593 $ 624,500 $ $ $ $ 1,129,093 $ 1,129,093 weighted average interest rate 6.22 % 6.05 % 6.00 % senior notes payable $ $ 300,000 $ $ $ $ 25,000 $ 325,000 $ 325,000 weighted average interest rate 5.84 % 5.81 % 5.84 % mortgage notes payable $ 23,520 $ $ 28,258 $ 104,236 $ 33,000 $ 25,924 $ 214,938 $ 214,938 weighted average interest rate 7.14 % 7.03 % 6.61 % 6.82 % 5.62 % 6.64 % fixed rate debt: senior notes payable $ 20,000 $ $ $ 206,421 $ 300,000 $ 1,912,000 $ 2,438,421 $ 2,487,496 weighted average interest rate 7.46 % 4.93 % 5.95 % 6.14 % 6.03 % mortgage notes payable $ 15,573 $ 118,812 $ 186,463 $ 172,262 $ 116,807 $ 1,385,153 $ 1,995,070 $ 2,030,037 weighted average interest rate 5.97 % 6.24 % 6.33 % 7.02 % 6.41 % 5.75 % 5.98 %quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 34 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our investments are financed by the sale of common and preferred stock, long-term and medium-term debt, internally generated cash flows, and some short-term bank debt. we generally have fixed base rent on our leases; in addition, there can be additional rent based on a percentage of increased revenue over specified base period revenue of the properties and/or increases based on inflation indices or other factors. financing costs are comprised of dividends on common and preferred stock, interest on long-term and medium-term debt and short-term interest on bank debt. on a more limited basis, we have provided mortgage loans to operators of health care facilities in the normal course of business. all of the mortgage loans receivable have fixed interest rates or interest rates with periodic fixed increases. therefore, the mortgage loans receivable are all considered to be fixed rate loans, and the current interest rate (the lowest rate) is used in the computation of market risk provided in the following table if material. we may assume existing mortgage notes payable as part of an acquisition transaction. currently we have two mortgage notes payable with variable interest rates and the remaining mortgage notes payable have fixed interest rates or interest rates with fixed periodic increases. our senior notes are at fixed rates, with one exception for a $25,000,000 variable rate senior note for which management has fixed the interest rate by means of a swap contract. the variable rate loans are at interest rates below the current prime rate of 4.00%, and fluctuations are tied to the prime rate or to a rate currently below the prime rate. at december 31, 2003, we are exposed to market risks related to fluctuations in interest rates on $4,075,000 of variable rate mortgage notes payable and $198,000,000 of variable rate bank debt on our total investment in our properties of $3.4 billion. fluctuation in the interest rate environment will not affect our future earnings and cash flows on our fixed rate debt until that debt matures and must be replaced or refinanced. interest rate changes will affect the fair value of the fixed rate instruments. conversely, changes in interest rates on variable rate debt would change our future earnings and cash flows, but not affect the fair value on those instruments. assuming a one percentage point increase in the interest rate related to the variable rate debt including the mortgage notes payable and the bank lines of credit, and assuming no change in the outstanding balance as of year end, interest expense for 2003 would increase by approximately $2,021,000, or $0.02 per common share on a diluted basis. the principal amount and the average interest rates for the mortgage loans receivable and debt categorized by the final maturity dates is presented in the following table. the fair value estimates for the mortgage loans receivable are based on the estimates of management and on rates currently prevailing for comparable loans. the fair market value estimates for debt securities are based on discounting future cash flows utilizing current rates offered to us for debt of the same type and remaining maturity. maturity fair value 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 thereafter total secured loans receivable $ 16,582 $ 69,108 $ 92,714 $ 760 $ 64,736 $ 243,900 $ 268,044 weighted average interest rate 13.3 % 9.5 % 13.3 % 10.5 % 10.7 % 11.5 % liabilities variable rate debt: bank notes payable $ 198,000 $ 198,000 $ 198,000 weighted average interest rate 2.06 % 2.06 % mortgage notes payable $ 4,075 $ 4,075 $ 4,075 weighted average interest rate 2.75 % 2.75 % fixed rate debt: senior notes payable $ 92,000 $ 231,000 $ 135,000 $ 140,000 $ 456,421 $ 1,054,421 $ 1,142,019 weighted average interest rate 7.78 % 6.87 % 6.72 % 8.06 % 6.48 % 6.92 % mortgage notes payable $ 9,244 $ 13,046 $ 17,498 $ 114,945 $ 154,733 $ 178,579 weighted average interest rate 7.59 % 8.76 % 7.36 % 8.17 % 8.09 % 34 table of contents readers are cautioned that most of the statements contained in the disclosures about market risk paragraphs are forward looking and should be read in conjunction with the disclosures under the heading cautionary language regarding forward looking statements previously set forth. new accounting pronouncements in january 2003, the financial accounting standards board (fasb) issued interpretation no. 46, consolidation of variable interest entities, an interpretation of accounting research bulletin no. 51 (interpretation no. 46) effective immediately for all variable interest entities created after january 31, 2003 and for the first fiscal year or interim period beginning after june 15, 2003 for variable interest entities in which an enterprise holds a variable interest that is acquired before february 1, 2003. during october 2003, and again in december 2003, the fasb met and agreed to defer the effective date of interpretation no. 46 for variable interests acquired before february 1, 2003. the deferral will require public companies to adopt the provisions of interpretation no. 46 for such variable interests in periods ending after march 15, 2004 (that is, the quarter ending march 31, 2004 for the company). we have adopted interpretation no. 46 for variable interest entities created after january 31, 2003. interpretation no. 46 requires the consolidation of variable interest entities in which an enterprise absorbs a majority of the entity expected losses, receives a majority of the entity expected residual returns, or both, as a result of ownership, contractual or other financial interests in the entity. for entities that do not qualify as variable interest entities, we consolidate those entities that are majority owned and controlled. since we have not adopted interpretation no. 46 for variable interest entities created before february 1, 2003, we continue to consolidate the accounts of all majority owned and controlled subsidiaries and certain general and limited partnerships created prior to that date. for investments in certain general partnerships and joint ventures created before february 1, 2003 in which we may serve as the general partner or managing member where the other members in these joint ventures have significant voting rights relative to acquisition, sale and refinancing of assets as well as approval rights with respect to budgets, we continue to account for these investments using the equity method of accounting. the accounting policies of these joint ventures are substantially consistent with ours. we are currently evaluating the effects on us, if any, of the adoption of interpretation no. 46 for variable interest entities created before february 1, 2003. in may 2003, the fasb issued statement of financial accounting standards no. 150 accounting for certain financial instruments with characteristics of both liabilities and equity (statement 150). statement 150 requires that mandatorily redeemable financial instruments be classified as a liability and recorded at settlement value as of the balance sheet date. as a result, consolidated partnerships with a limited-life are considered mandatorily redeemable. on october 29, 2003, the fasb met and voted to defer implementation of the provisions of statement 150 that require the valuation and establishment of a liability for limited-life entities. statement 150 would have applied to seven limited-life partnerships. effective october 2003, we amended the agreement for one of these partnerships to remove the limited-life provision. the minority interest in this partnership is not mandatorily redeemable and is not subject to the disclosure provisions of statement 150. as of december 31, 2003, we have estimated the settlement value of the minority interests in the remaining six partnerships to be approximately $4,500,000, which is approximately $2,500,000 more than the carrying amount of such minority interests.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 37 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk at december 31, 2004, we are exposed to market risks related to fluctuations in interest rates on $11.9 million of variable rate mortgage notes payable, $300.1 million of variable rate bank debt and $25 million of variable senior notes. of our consolidated debt of $1.5 billion at year end 2004, approximately 23% is at variable interest rates with the balance at fixed interest rates. fluctuation in the interest rate environment will not affect our future earnings and cash flows on our fixed rate debt until that debt must be replaced or refinanced. however, interest rate changes will affect the fair value of our fixed rate instruments. conversely, changes in interest rates on variable rate debt would change our future earnings and cash flows, but not affect the fair value of those instruments. assuming a one percentage point increase in the interest rate related to the variable-rate debt including the mortgage notes payable, the bank line of credit and senior notes, and assuming no change in the outstanding balance as of december 31, 2004, interest expense for 2004 would increase by approximately $3.4 million, or $0.03 per common share on a diluted basis. 37 table of contents the principal amount and the average interest rates for our mortgage loans receivable and debt categorized by maturity dates is presented in the table below. the fair value estimates for the mortgage loans receivable are based on the estimates of management and on rates currently prevailing for comparable loans. the fair market value estimates for debt securities are based on discounting future cash flows utilizing current rates offered to us for debt of the same type and remaining maturity. maturity fair value 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 thereafter total (dollars in thousands) loans receivable: secured loans receivable $ 16,377 $ 62,345 $ 12,854 $ 2,280 $ 7,076 $ 39,768 $ 140,700 $ 161,960 weighted average interest rate 11.57 % 10.32 % 13.79 % 10.50 % 12.15 % 11.02 % 10.90 % liabilities: variable rate debt: bank notes payable $ 300,100 $ 300,100 $ 300,100 weighted average interest rate 3.140 % 3.14 % senior notes payable $ 25,000 $ 25,000 $ 25,000 weighted average interest rate 3.39 % 3.39 % mortgage notes payable $ 245 $ 3,655 $ 8,010 $ 11,910 $ 11,910 weighted average interest rate 1.60 % 1.07 % 1.07 % 1.08 % fixed rate debt: senior notes payable $ 231,000 $ 135,000 $ 140,000 $ 518,421 $ 1,024,421 $ 1,100,379 weighted average interest rate 6.95 % 6.71 % 7.49 % 6.22 % 6.62 % mortgage notes payable $ 15,953 $ 3,736 $ 4,061 $ 7,178 $ 4,605 $ 91,973 $ 127,506 $ 151,945 weighted average interest rate 9.14 % 8.21 % 8.21 % 8.05 % 8.02 % 7.58 % 7.86 % see liquidity and capital resources debt for a discussion of the mopprs option related to our senior notes.risk factors 12 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 62risk factors 12 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 64risk factors 11 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 67risk factors 10 risk factors the section below discusses the most significant risk factors that may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. as set forth below, we believe that the risks we face generally fall into the following categories: risks related to our business and operations; risks related to our capital structure and market conditions; risks related to other events; and risks related to tax, including reit-related risks. 10 table of contents risks related to our business and operations we depend on one tenant and operator, brookdale, for a significant percentage of our revenues and net operating income. continuing adverse developments, including operational challenges, in brookdale's business and affairs or financial condition would likely have a materially adverse effect on us. we manage our facilities utilizing ridea and triple-net lease structures. as of december 31, 2017 , brookdale leased or managed 78 senior housing facilities that we own and 62 shop facilities owned by our unconsolidated joint venture pursuant to long-term leases and management agreements. these properties represent a substantial portion of our portfolio, revenues and operating income. properties managed by brookdale in our shop segment as of december 31, 2017 , accounted for 13% of our total assets. although we have various rights as the property owner under our management agreements, we rely on brookdale's personnel, expertise, technical resources and information systems, proprietary information, good faith and judgment to manage our related senior living operations efficiently and effectively. we also rely on brookdale to set appropriate resident fees, manage occupancy, provide accurate and complete property-level financial results for these senior housing communities in a timely manner and otherwise operate them in compliance with the terms of our management agreements and all applicable laws and regulations. properties leased by brookdale accounted for 8% of our revenues for the year ended december 31, 2017. in its capacity as a triple-net tenant, we depend on brookdale to pay all insurance, tax, utilities, maintenance and repair expenses in connection with the leased properties. brookdale may not have sufficient assets, income and access to financing to enable it to satisfy its obligations to us, and any failure, inability or unwillingness by brookdale to do so would have a material adverse effect on us. in addition, we depend on brookdale's adequate maintenance and repair of the properties to remain competitive and attract and retain patients and residents. adverse developments in brookdale's business and related declining rent coverage ratios have increased its credit risk. if these adverse developments result in prolonged inadequate property maintenance or improvements, or impair brookdale's access to capital necessary for maintenance or improvements, it would likely lead to a significant reduction in occupancy rates and market rents and have a materially adverse effect on us. brookdale has experienced significant challenges in recent years, including poor operational performance, ongoing class action litigation, stockholder activism and portfolio restructuring execution, among others. brookdale has been adversely affected by increased competition that has negatively impacted occupancy rates and, in certain cases, brookdale has offered additional discounts and incentives to residents. brookdale, as well as our other operators, have also experienced labor expense pressure and increased labor turnover. additionally, brookdale has announced that it is considering corporate strategic alternatives. brookdale's operational, legal and financial challenges and its pursuit of strategic alternatives could significantly divert management's attention, increase employee turnover, and impair its ability to manage our properties or its operations efficiently and effectively. these challenges and any adverse developments in brookdale's business, affairs and financial results could result in, among other adverse events, declining operational and financial performance of our properties, acceleration of brookdale's indebtedness, impairment of its continued access to capital, the enforcement of default remedies by its counterparties or the commencement of insolvency proceedings by or against it under the u.s. bankruptcy code. in addition, brookdale depends on private sources for its revenues and the ability of its patients and residents to pay its fees. for example, costs associated with independent and assisted living services are not generally reimbursable under governmental reimbursement programs such as medicare and medicaid. accordingly, brookdale depends on attracting seniors with appropriate levels of income and assets, which may be affected by many factors including prevailing economic and market trends, consumer confidence and demographics. consequently, if brookdale fails to effectively conduct its operations, or to maintain and improve our properties, it would adversely affect its business reputation and its ability to attract and retain patients and residents in our properties, which would have a materially adverse effect on its and our business, results of operations and financial condition. brookdale also relies on reimbursements from governmental programs for a portion of its revenues. changes in reimbursement policies and other governmental regulation, such as potential changes to, or repeal of, the patient protection and affordable care act, along with the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (the affordable care act ), that may result from actions by congress or executive orders, may result in reductions in brookdale's revenues, operations and cash flows and affect its ability to meet its obligations to us. for a further discussion of the legislation and regulation that are applicable to us and our tenants, operators and borrowers, see the requirements of, or changes to, governmental reimbursement programs such as medicare or medicaid, may adversely affect our tenants', operators' and borrowers' ability to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us. while brookdale generally has also agreed to indemnify us for various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with its business, it may have insufficient assets, income, access to financing and/or insurance coverage to enable them to satisfy its indemnification obligations. 11 table of contents we are currently in the process of reducing our exposure to brookdale through asset sales and transitions to other operators (see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations--2017 transaction overview--master transactions and cooperation agreement with brookdale for more information). however, we may not be able to sell or transition assets managed or leased by brookdale according to our plans or within our anticipated timeframe. in addition, the sale and transition process may divert brookdale's attention from the performance of the properties we are selling or transitioning, or from our properties brookdale will continue to manage or lease from us following the contemplated transactions. this could result in further operational challenges and/or declining financial performance of our properties during or after the transition period. the inability, unwillingness or other failure of brookdale to pursue the optimal performance of our properties or to meet its obligations to us under its leases and management agreements could materially reduce our cash flow, net operating income and results of operations and have other materially adverse effects on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the bankruptcy, insolvency or financial deterioration of one or more of our major tenants, operators or borrowers may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we lease our properties directly to operators in most cases, and in certain other cases, we lease to third party tenants who enter into long-term management agreements with operators to manage the properties. we are also a direct or indirect lender to various tenants and operators and separately provide loans to certain third parties. we have very limited control over the success or failure of our tenants', operators' and borrowers' businesses. any of our tenants or operators may experience a downturn in their business that materially weakens their financial condition. as a result, they may fail to make payments when due. for example, one of our borrowers, tandem health care ( tandem ), has failed to make its required interest payments to us since november 10, 2017, which resulted in an event of default and adversely affected our revenues. although we generally have arrangements and other agreements that give us the right under specified circumstances to terminate a lease, evict a tenant or operator, or demand immediate repayment of outstanding loan amounts or other obligations to us, we may determine not to do so if we believe that enforcement of our rights would be more detrimental to our business than seeking alternative approaches. a downturn in any of our tenants', operators' or borrowers' businesses could ultimately lead to bankruptcy if it is unable to timely resolve the underlying causes, which may be largely outside of its control. bankruptcy and insolvency laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization that may render certain of these remedies unenforceable, or, at the least, delay our ability to pursue such remedies and realize any recoveries in connection therewith. for example, we cannot evict a tenant or operator solely because of its bankruptcy filing. a debtor has the right to assume, or to assume and assign to a third party, or to reject its executory contracts and unexpired leases in a bankruptcy proceeding. if a debtor were to reject its leases with us, obligations under such rejected leases would cease. the claim against the rejecting debtor would be an unsecured claim, which would be limited by the statutory cap set forth in the u.s. bankruptcy code. this statutory cap may be substantially less than the remaining rent actually owed under the lease. in addition, a debtor may also assert in bankruptcy proceedings that leases should be re-characterized as financing agreements, which could result in our being deemed a lender instead of a landlord. a lender's rights and remedies, as compared to a landlord's, generally are materially less favorable, and our rights as a lender may be subordinated to other creditors' rights. furthermore, the automatic stay provisions of the u.s. bankruptcy code would preclude us from enforcing our remedies unless we first obtain relief from the court having jurisdiction over the bankruptcy case. this would effectively limit or delay our ability to collect unpaid rent or interest payments, and we may ultimately not receive any payment at all. in addition, we would likely be required to fund certain expenses and obligations (e.g., real estate taxes, insurance, debt costs and maintenance expenses) to preserve the value of our properties, avoid the imposition of liens on our properties or transition our properties to a new tenant, operator or manager. additionally, we lease many of our facilities to healthcare providers who provide long-term custodial care to the elderly. evicting these operators for failure to pay rent while the facility is occupied may involve specific procedural or regulatory requirements and may not be successful. even if eviction is possible, we may determine not to do so due to reputational or other risks. bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings typically also result in increased costs to the operator, significant management distraction and performance declines. if we are unable to transition affected properties, they would likely experience prolonged operational disruption, leading to lower occupancy rates and further depressed revenues. publicity about the operator's financial condition and insolvency proceeds may also negatively impact their and our reputations, decreasing customer demand and revenues. any or all of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, results of operations and cash flows. these risks would be magnified where we lease multiple properties to a single operator under a master lease, as an operator failure or default under a master lease would expose us to these risks across multiple properties. additionally, the financial weakness or other inability of our tenants, operators or borrowers to make payments or comply with certain other lease obligations may affect our compliance with certain covenants contained in our debt securities, credit facilities and the mortgages on the properties leased or managed by such borrowers, tenants and operators, or otherwise adversely affect 12 table of contents our results of operations. under certain conditions, defaults under the underlying mortgages may result in cross default under our other indebtedness. although we may be able to secure amendments under the applicable agreements in those circumstances, the bankruptcy of a borrower, tenant or operator may result in less favorable borrowing terms than currently available, delays in the availability of funding or other materially adverse consequences. increased competition and market and legislative changes have resulted and may further result in lower net revenues for some of our tenants, operators and borrowers and may affect their ability to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us. the healthcare industry is highly competitive. the occupancy levels at, and rental income from, our facilities are dependent on our ability and the ability of our tenants, operators and borrowers to compete with other tenants and operators on a number of different levels, including the quality of care provided, reputation, the physical appearance of a facility, price, the range of services offered, family preference, alternatives for healthcare delivery, the supply of competing properties, physicians, staff, referral sources, location, and the size and demographics of the population in the surrounding area. in addition, our tenants, operators and borrowers face an increasingly competitive labor market for skilled management personnel and nurses. an inability to attract and retain skilled management personnel and nurses and other trained personnel could negatively impact the ability of our tenants, operators and borrowers to meet their obligations to us. a shortage of nurses or other trained personnel or general inflationary pressures on wages may force tenants, operators and borrowers to enhance pay and benefits packages to compete effectively for skilled personnel, or to use more expensive contract personnel, but they be unable to offset these added costs by increasing the rates charged to residents. any increase in labor costs and other property operating expenses or any failure by our tenants, operators or borrowers to attract and retain qualified personnel could adversely affect our cash flow and have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our tenants, operators and borrowers also compete with numerous other companies providing similar healthcare services or alternatives such as home health agencies, life care at home, community-based service programs, retirement communities and convalescent centers. this competition, which is due, in part, to over-development in some segments in which we invest, has caused the occupancy rate of newly constructed buildings to slow and the monthly rate that many newly built and previously existing facilities were able to obtain for their services to decrease. our tenants, operators and borrowers may be unable to achieve occupancy and rate levels, and to manage their expenses, in a way that will enable them to meet all of their obligations to us. further, many competing companies may have resources and attributes that are superior to those of our tenants, operators and borrowers. our tenants, operators and borrowers may encounter increased competition that could limit their ability to maintain or attract residents or expand their businesses or to manage their expenses, either of which could materially adversely affect their ability to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us, potentially decreasing our revenues and impairing our assets and/or increasing collection and dispute costs. in addition, our operators' revenues are determined by a number of factors, including licensed bed capacity, occupancy, the healthcare needs of residents, the rate of reimbursement, and the income and assets of seniors in the regions in which we operate. for example, due to generally increased vulnerability to illness, a severe flu season, an epidemic or any other widespread illness could result in early move-outs or delayed move-ins during quarantine periods, which would reduce our operators' revenues. additionally, new and evolving payor and provider programs in the united states, including but not limited to medicare advantage, dual eligible, accountable care organizations, and bundled payments, have resulted in reduced reimbursement rates, average length of stay and average daily census, particularly for higher acuity patients. furthermore, potential executive orders and legislation have introduced uncertainty in the direction of the healthcare regulatory landscape and we cannot predict the impact of any regulatory or legislative changes on the industry or our ability to compete effectively therein. see the risks described under legislation and regulation-the requirements of, or changes to, governmental reimbursement programs such as medicare or medicaid, may adversely affect our tenants', operators' and borrowers' ability to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us. competition may make it difficult to identify and purchase, or develop, suitable healthcare facilities to grow our investment portfolio, to finance acquisitions on favorable terms, or to retain or attract tenants and operators. we face significant competition from other reits, investment companies, private equity and hedge fund investors, sovereign funds, healthcare operators, lenders, developers and other institutional investors, some of whom may have greater resources and lower costs of capital than we do. increased competition makes it more challenging for us to identify and successfully capitalize on opportunities that meet our business goals and could improve the bargaining power of property owners seeking to sell, thereby impeding our investment, acquisition and development activities. similarly, our properties face competition for tenants and operators from other properties in the same market, which may affect our ability to attract and retain tenants and operators, or may reduce the rents we are able to charge. if we cannot capitalize on our development pipeline, identify and purchase a sufficient 13 table of contents quantity of healthcare facilities at favorable prices, finance acquisitions on commercially favorable terms, or attract and retain profitable tenants and operators, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. we depend on investments in the healthcare property sector, making our profitability more vulnerable to a downturn or slowdown in that specific sector than if we were investing in multiple industries. we concentrate our investments in the healthcare property sector. as a result, we are subject to risks inherent to investments in a single industry. a downturn or slowdown in the healthcare property sector would have a greater adverse impact on our business than if we had investments in multiple industries. specifically, a downturn in the healthcare property sector could negatively impact the ability of our tenants, operators and borrowers to meet their obligations to us, as well as the ability to maintain rental and occupancy rates. this could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, a downturn in the healthcare property sector could adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to sell properties at prices or on terms acceptable to us. in addition, we are exposed to the risks inherent in concentrating our investments in real estate, which investments are relatively illiquid. our ability to quickly sell or transition any of our properties in response to changes in the performance of our properties or economic and other conditions is limited. we may be unable to recognize full value for any property that we seek to sell for liquidity reasons. our inability to respond rapidly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. changes within the life science industry may adversely impact our revenues and results of operations. our life science investments could be adversely affected if the life science industry is impacted by an economic, financial, or banking crisis or if the life science industry migrates from the u.s. to other countries or to areas outside of primary life science markets in south san francisco, san diego and greater boston. also, some of our properties may be better suited for a particular life science industry client tenant and could require modification before we are able to re-lease vacant space to another life science industry client tenant. generally, our properties may not be suitable for lease to traditional office client tenants without significant expenditures on renovations. our ability to negotiate contractual rent escalations on future leases and to achieve increases in rental rates will depend upon market conditions and the demand for life science properties at the time the leases are negotiated and the increases are proposed. many life science entities have completed mergers or consolidations. future mergers or consolidations of life science entities could reduce the amount of rentable square footage requirements of our client tenants and prospective client tenants, which may adversely impact our revenues from lease payments and results of operations. our tenants in the life science industry face high levels of regulation, expense and uncertainty. life science tenants, particularly those involved in developing and marketing pharmaceutical products, are subject to certain unique risks, including the following: some of our tenants require significant outlays of funds for the research, development, clinical testing and manufacture of their products and technologies. if private investors, the government or other sources of funding are unavailable to support such activities, a tenant's business may be adversely affected or fail; the research, development, clinical testing, manufacture and marketing of some of our tenants' products require federal, state and foreign regulatory approvals which may be costly or difficult to obtain, may take several years and be subject to delay, may not be obtained at all, require valuation through clinical trials and the use of substantial resources, and may often be unpredictable; even after a life science tenant gains regulatory approval and market acceptance, the product may still present significant regulatory and liability risks, including, among others, the possible later discovery of safety concerns and other defects and potential loss of approvals, competition from new products and the expiration of patent protection for the product; our tenants with marketable products may be adversely affected by healthcare reform and the reimbursement policies of government or private healthcare payors; dependence on the commercial success of certain products, which may be reliant on the efficacy of the products, acceptance of the products among doctors and patients, negative publicity and the negative results or safety signals from the clinical trials of competitors which may reduce demand or prompt regulatory actions; and 14 table of contents our tenants may be unable to adapt to the rapid technological advances in the industry and to adequately protect their intellectual property under patent, copyright or trade secret laws and defend against third party claims of intellectual property violations. if our tenants' businesses are adversely affected, they may have difficulty making payments to us, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. the hospitals on whose campuses our mobs are located and their affiliated healthcare systems could fail to remain competitive or financially viable, which could adversely impact their ability to attract physicians and physician groups to our mobs and our other facilities that serve the healthcare industry. our mobs and other facilities that serve the healthcare industry depend on the viability of the hospitals on whose campuses our mobs are located and their affiliated healthcare systems in order to attract physicians and other healthcare-related users. the viability of these hospitals, in turn, depends on factors such as the quality and mix of healthcare services provided, competition, demographic trends in the surrounding community, market position and growth potential, as well as the ability of the affiliated healthcare systems to provide economies of scale and access to capital. if a hospital whose campus is located on or near one of our mobs is unable to meet its financial obligations, and if an affiliated healthcare system is unable to support that hospital, the hospital may not be able to compete successfully or could be forced to close or relocate, which could adversely impact its ability to attract physicians and other healthcare-related users. because we rely on our proximity to and affiliations with these hospitals to create tenant demand for space in our mobs, their inability to remain competitive or financially viable, or to attract physicians and physician groups, could adversely affect our mob operations and have a materially adverse effect on us. in addition, the potential repeal of the affordable care act and related regulations and uncertainty regarding potential replacement legislation, could result in significant changes to the scope of insurance coverage and reimbursement policies, which could put negative pressure on the operations and revenues of our mobs. we may be unable to maintain or expand our relationships with our existing and future hospital and health system clients. the success of our medical office portfolio depends, to a large extent, on past, current and future relationships with hospitals and their affiliated health systems. we invest significant amounts of time in developing relationships with both new and existing clients. if we fail to maintain these relationships, including through a lack of responsiveness, failure to adapt to the current market and employment of individuals with adequate experience, our reputation and relationships will be harmed and we may lose business to competitors. if our relationships with hospitals and their affiliated health systems deteriorate, it could have a materially adverse effect on us. economic and other conditions that negatively affect geographic areas from which a greater percentage of our revenue is recognized could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. for the year ended december 31, 2017 , 26% of our revenue was derived from properties located in california, which is also where substantially all of our life science portfolio is located. as a result, we are subject to increased exposure to adverse conditions affecting the state, including downturns in the local economies or changes in local real estate conditions, increased competition or decreased demand, changes in state-specific legislation and local climate events and natural disasters (such as earthquakes, wildfires and hurricanes), which could cause significant disruption in our businesses in the region, harm our ability to compete effectively, result in increased costs and divert more management attention, any or all of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. if we must replace any of our tenants or operators, we may have difficulty identifying replacements and we may be required to incur substantial renovation costs to make certain of our healthcare properties suitable for other tenants and operators. we cannot predict whether our tenants will renew existing leases beyond their current term. if we or our tenants terminate or do not renew the leases for our properties, we would attempt to reposition those properties with another tenant or operator. we may also voluntarily change operators for a variety of reasons. for example, in november 2017, we announced a plan to transition a significant number of properties managed by brookdale to other operators as part of our strategic plan to reduce our concentration of assets managed or leased by brookdale. healthcare facilities are typically highly customized. the improvements generally required to conform a property to healthcare use, such as upgrading electrical, gas and plumbing infrastructure, are costly and at times tenant-specific and are typically subject to regulatory requirements. a new or replacement tenant or operator may require different features in a property, depending on that tenant's or operator's particular business. in addition, infrastructure improvements for life science facilities typically are significantly more costly than improvements to other property types, and we may be unable to recover part or all of these higher costs. therefore, if a current tenant or operator is unable to pay rent and/or vacates a property, we may incur substantial expenditures to modify a property and experience delays before we are able to secure another tenant or operator or to accommodate multiple tenants or operators. these expenditures or renovations and delays may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 15 table of contents additionally, we may fail to identify suitable replacements or enter into leases or other arrangements with new tenants or operators on a timely basis or on terms as favorable to us as our current leases, if at all. furthermore, during transition periods to new tenants or operators, we anticipate that the attention of existing tenants or operators will be diverted from the performance of the properties, which would cause the financial and operational performance at these properties to further decline. we also may be required to fund certain expenses and obligations such as real estate taxes, debt costs and maintenance expenses, to preserve the value of, and avoid the imposition of liens on, our properties while they are being repositioned. in addition, we may incur certain obligations and liabilities, including obligations to indemnify the replacement tenant or operator, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we face additional risks associated with property development and redevelopment that can render a project less profitable or not profitable at all and, under certain circumstances, prevent completion of development activities once undertaken. property development is a component of our growth strategy. at december 31, 2017 , our actual investment and estimated commitments under our development and redevelopment platforms, including land held for development, represented approximately $682 million , or 5% of our total assets. large-scale, ground-up development of healthcare properties presents additional risks for us, including risks that: a development opportunity may be abandoned after expending significant resources resulting in the loss of deposits or failure to recover expenses already incurred; the development and construction costs of a project may exceed original estimates due to increased interest rates and higher materials, transportation, labor, leasing or other costs, which could make the completion of the development project less profitable; the project may not be completed on schedule as a result of a variety of factors that are beyond our control, including natural disasters, labor conditions, material shortages, regulatory hurdles, civil unrest and acts of war, which result in increases in construction costs and debt service expenses or provide tenants or operators with the right to terminate pre-construction leases; and occupancy rates and rents at a newly completed property may not meet expected levels and could be insufficient to make the property profitable. any of the foregoing risks could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. our use of joint ventures may limit our flexibility with jointly owned investments. we have and may continue to develop and/or acquire properties in joint ventures with other persons or entities when circumstances warrant the use of these structures. our participation in joint ventures is subject to risks that may not be present with other methods of ownership, including: we could experience an impasse on certain decisions because we do not have sole decision-making authority, which could require us to expend additional resources on resolving such impasses or potential disputes, including litigation or arbitration; our joint venture partners could have investment and financing goals that are not consistent with our objectives, including the timing, terms and strategies for any investments, and what levels of debt to incur or carry; our ability to transfer our interest in a joint venture to a third party may be restricted and the market for our interest may be limited; our joint venture partners may be structured differently than us for tax purposes, and this could create conflicts of interest and risks to our reit status; our joint venture partners might become insolvent, fail to fund their share of required capital contributions or fail to fulfill their obligations as a joint venture partner, which may require us to infuse our own capital into the venture on behalf of the partner despite other competing uses for such capital; and our joint venture partners may have competing interests in our markets that could create conflict of interest issues. any of the foregoing risks could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, in some instances, we and/or our joint venture partner will have the right to cause us to sell our interest, or acquire our partner's interest, at a time when we otherwise would not have initiated such a transaction. our ability to acquire our partner's interest will 16 table of contents be limited if we do not have sufficient cash, available borrowing capacity or other capital resources. this would require us to sell our interest in the joint venture when we would otherwise prefer to retain it. from time to time we have made, and we may seek to make, one or more material acquisitions, which may involve the expenditure of significant funds. we regularly review potential transactions in order to maximize stockholder value. our review process may require significant management attention and a potential transaction could be abandoned or rejected by us or the other parties involved after we expend significant resources and time. in addition, future acquisitions may require the issuance of securities, the incurrence of debt, assumption of contingent liabilities or incurrence of significant expenditures, each of which could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, the financing required for acquisitions may not be available on commercially favorable terms or at all. from time to time, we acquire other companies, and if we are unable to successfully integrate these operations, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. acquisitions require the integration of companies that have previously operated independently. successful integration of the operations of these companies depends primarily on our ability to consolidate operations, systems, procedures, properties and personnel, and to eliminate redundancies and costs. we may encounter difficulties in these integrations. potential difficulties associated with acquisitions include our ability to effectively monitor and manage our expanded portfolio of properties, the loss of key employees, the disruption of our ongoing business or that of the acquired entity, possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, and the assumption of unexpected liabilities, including: liabilities relating to the cleanup or remediation of undisclosed environmental conditions; unasserted claims of vendors, residents, patients or other persons dealing with the seller; liabilities, claims and litigation, whether or not incurred in the ordinary course of business, relating to periods prior to our acquisition; claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the seller; claims for return of government reimbursement payments; and liabilities for taxes relating to periods prior to our acquisition. in addition, the acquired companies and their properties may fail to perform as expected, including in respect of estimated cost savings. inaccurate assumptions regarding future rental or occupancy rates could result in overly optimistic estimates of future revenues. similarly, we may underestimate future operating expenses or the costs necessary to bring properties up to standards established for their intended use or for property improvements. if we have difficulties with any of these areas, or if we later discover additional liabilities or experience unforeseen costs relating to our acquired companies, we might not achieve the economic benefits we expect from our acquisitions, and this may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. our tenants, operators and borrowers face litigation and may experience rising liability and insurance costs. in some states, advocacy groups have been created to monitor the quality of care at healthcare facilities, and these groups have brought litigation against the tenants and operators of such facilities. also, in several instances, private litigation by patients, residents or whistleblowers has sought, and sometimes resulted in, large damage awards. see the requirements of, or changes to, governmental reimbursement programs such as medicare or medicaid, may adversely affect our tenants', operators' and borrowers' ability to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us. the effect of this litigation and other potential litigation may materially increase the costs incurred by our tenants, operators and borrowers for monitoring and reporting quality of care compliance. in addition, their cost of liability and medical malpractice insurance can be significant and may increase or not be available at a reasonable cost so long as the present healthcare litigation environment continues. cost increases could cause our tenants and operators to be unable to make their lease or mortgage payments or fail to purchase the appropriate liability and malpractice insurance, or cause our borrowers to be unable to meet their obligations to us, potentially decreasing our revenues and increasing our collection and litigation costs. in addition, as a result of our ownership of healthcare facilities, we may be named as a defendant in lawsuits arising from the alleged actions of our tenants or operators. while our operators generally have agreed to indemnify us for various claims, litigation 17 table of contents and liabilities arising in connection with their operation of our properties, they may have insufficient assets, income, access to financing and/or insurance coverage to enable them to satisfy their indemnification obligations, in which case we would incur unanticipated expenditures. furthermore, although our leases and agreements provide us with certain information rights with respect to our tenants and operators, one or more of our tenants may be or become party to pending litigation or investigation to which we are unaware or do not have a right to participate or evaluate. in such cases, we would be unable to determine the potential impact of such litigation or investigation on our tenants or our business or results. moreover, negative publicity of any of our operators' or tenants' litigation, other legal proceedings or investigations may also negatively impact their and our reputation, resulting in lower customer demand and revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. we, through our subsidiaries, enter into management contracts with third party eligible independent contractors to manage some of our facilities whereby we assume additional operational risks and are subject to additional regulation and liability. ridea structures at the year ended december 31, 2017 , accounted for 12% of our total assets. ridea permits reits, such as us, to lease healthcare facilities that we own or partially own to a trs, provided that our trs hires an independent qualifying management company to operate the facility. under the ridea lease structure, the independent qualifying management company receives a management fee from our trs for operating the facility as an independent contractor. as the owner of the facility contracting out operational responsibility, we assume most of the operational risk relative to other structures because we lease our facility to our own partially- or wholly-owned subsidiary rather than a third party operator. our resulting revenues therefore depend most on occupancy rates, the rates charged to residents and the ability to control operating expenses. our trs, and hence we, are responsible for any operating deficits incurred by the facility. the operator, which would be our trs when we use a ridea lease structure, of a healthcare facility is generally required to be the holder of the applicable healthcare license. this licensing requirement subjects our trs and us (through our ownership interest in our trs) to various regulatory laws, including those described above. most states regulate and inspect healthcare facility operations, patient care, construction and the safety of the physical environment. if one or more of our healthcare real estate facilities fails to comply with applicable laws, our trs, if it holds the healthcare license and is the entity enrolled in government health care programs, would be subject to penalties including loss or suspension of license, certification or accreditation, exclusion from government healthcare programs (i.e., medicare, medicaid), administrative sanctions, civil monetary penalties, and in certain instances, criminal penalties. additionally, when we receive individually identifiable health information relating to residents of our trs-operated healthcare facilities, we are subject to federal and state data privacy and confidentiality laws and rules, and could be subject to liability in the event of an audit, complaint, or data breach. furthermore, if our trs holds the healthcare license, it could have exposure to professional liability claims arising out of an alleged breach of the applicable standard of care rules. in addition, rents from this trs structure are treated as qualifying rents from real property if (i) they are paid pursuant to an arms-length lease of a qualified healthcare property with the trs and (ii) the manager qualifies as an eligible independent contractor, as defined in the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code ). if either of these conditions is not satisfied, then the rents will not be qualifying rents. the requirements of, or changes to, governmental reimbursement programs such as medicare or medicaid, may adversely affect our tenants', operators' and borrowers' ability to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us. certain of our tenants, operators and borrowers are affected, directly or indirectly, by an extremely complex set of federal, state and local laws and regulations pertaining to governmental reimbursement programs. these laws and regulations are subject to frequent and substantial changes that are sometimes applied retroactively. see item 1 business government regulation, licensing and enforcement. for example, to the extent that our tenants, operators or borrowers receive a significant portion of their revenues from governmental payors, primarily medicare and medicaid, they are generally subject to, among other things: statutory and regulatory changes; retroactive rate adjustments; recovery of program overpayments or set-offs; federal, state and local litigation and enforcement actions; administrative proceedings; policy interpretations; payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries or carriers; 18 table of contents government funding restrictions (at a program level or with respect to specific facilities); and interruption or delays in payments due to any ongoing governmental investigations and audits at such properties. the failure to comply with the extensive laws, regulations and other requirements applicable to their business and the operation of our properties could result in, among other challenges: (i) becoming ineligible to receive reimbursement from governmental reimbursement programs; (ii) bans on admissions of new patients or residents; (iii) civil or criminal penalties; and (iv) significant operational changes. these laws and regulations are enforced by a variety of federal, state and local agencies and can also be enforced by private litigants through, among other things, federal and state false claims acts, which allow private litigants to bring qui tam or whistleblower actions. for example, we have provided a loan to tandem health care ( tandem ), a property company that owns and operates 32 post-acute/skilled nursing facilities, in addition to operating nine leasehold interests, totaling 4,766 beds (the tandem portfolio ) (see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information). affiliates of the sole tenant and operator of tandem's facilities, consulate, were named in a qui tam or whistleblower action that alleged that consulate overbilled the federal government and the state of florida (united states of america v. cmc ii, llc, et al, u.s. district court, m.d. florida). in february, 2017, a jury returned an adverse verdict against five consulate entities as defendants, resulting in a $348 million judgment against all defendants. as a result of these legal and financial challenges, consulate has failed to fully pay its contractual rent to tandem since april 1, 2017, which has impacted tandem's ability to service its debt obligations to us. since november 10, 2017, tandem has failed to make its required interest payment to us, resulting in an event of default and adversely impacting our results of operations. on january 11, 2018, the court overturned the jury verdict against consulate and vacated the judgment. the plaintiff has provided notice that it will appeal the ruling, and we cannot predict the outcome. it is also possible that the parties could reach an out-of-court settlement. an unfavorable ruling against consulate on appeal would have a materially adverse effect on its financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. this would cause additional declines in the tandem portfolio's operating performance and would likely negatively affect consulate's and tandem's ability to raise capital, which would further adversely affect tandem's ability to meet its debt service obligations to us. we are currently evaluating our options in respect of the tandem mezzanine loan. regardless of the ultimate outcome, our tenants, operators and borrowers could be adversely affected by the resources required to respond to an investigation or other enforcement action. in such event, the results of operations and financial condition of our tenants and the results of operations of our properties operated by those entities could be materially adversely affected, which, in turn, could have a materially adverse effect on us. we are unable to predict future federal, state and local regulations and legislation, including the medicare and medicaid statutes and regulations, or the intensity of enforcement efforts with respect to such regulations and legislation, and any changes in the regulatory framework could have a materially adverse effect on our tenants and operators, which, in turn, could have a materially adverse effect on us. sometimes, governmental payors freeze or reduce payments to healthcare providers, or provide annual reimbursement rate increases that are smaller than expected, due to budgetary and other pressures. healthcare reimbursement will likely continue to be of significant importance to federal and state authorities. we cannot make any assessment as to the ultimate timing or the effect that any future legislative reforms may have on our tenants', operators' and borrowers' costs of doing business and on the amount of reimbursement by government and other third-party payors. the failure of any of our tenants, operators or borrowers to comply with these laws and regulations, and significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees, could materially adversely affect their ability to meet their financial and contractual obligations to us. furthermore, executive orders and legislation may amend or repeal the affordable care act and related regulations in whole or in part. we also anticipate that congress, state legislatures, and third-party payors may continue to review and assess alternative healthcare delivery and payment systems and may propose and adopt legislation or policy changes or implementations effecting additional fundamental changes in the healthcare system. we cannot quantify or predict the likely impact of these possible changes on our business model, prospects, financial condition or results of operations. legislation to address federal government operations and administration decisions affecting the centers for medicare and medicaid services could have a materially adverse effect on our tenants', operators' and borrowers' liquidity, financial condition or results of operations. congressional consideration of legislation pertaining to the federal debt ceiling, the affordable care act, tax reform and entitlement programs, including reimbursement rates for physicians, could have a materially adverse effect on our tenants', operators' and borrowers' liquidity, financial condition or results of operations. in particular, reduced funding for entitlement programs such as medicare and medicaid would result in increased costs and fees for programs such as medicare advantage plans and additional reductions in reimbursements to providers. amendments to or repeal of the affordable care act and decisions by the centers for medicare and medicaid services could impact the delivery of services and benefits under medicare, medicaid or medicare 19 table of contents advantage plans and could affect our tenants and operators and the manner in which they are reimbursed by such programs. such changes could have a materially adverse effect on our tenants', operators' and borrowers' liquidity, financial condition or results of operations, which could adversely affect their ability to satisfy their obligations to us and could have a materially adverse effect on us. compliance with the americans with disabilities act and fire, safety and other regulations may require us to make expenditures that adversely affect our cash flows. our properties must comply with applicable ada and any similar state and local laws. this may require removal of barriers to access by persons with disabilities in public areas of our properties. noncompliance could result in imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants and the incurrence of additional costs associated with bringing the properties into compliance. while the tenants to whom we lease our properties are obligated to comply with the ada and similar state and local provisions, and typically under tenant leases are obligated to cover costs associated with compliance, if required changes involve greater expenditures than anticipated, or if the changes must be made on a more accelerated basis than anticipated, the ability of these tenants to cover costs could be adversely affected. as a result, we could be required to expend funds to comply with the provisions of the ada and similar state and local laws on behalf of tenants, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, we are required to operate our properties in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations. new and revised regulations and codes may be adopted by governmental agencies and bodies and become applicable to our properties. compliance could require substantial capital expenditures, and may restrict our ability to renovate our properties. these expenditures and restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet our financial obligations. tenants and operators that fail to comply with federal, state, local and international laws and regulations, including licensure, certification and inspection requirements, may cease to operate or be unable to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us. our tenants, operators and borrowers are subject to or impacted by extensive, frequently changing federal, state, local and international laws and regulations. these laws and regulations include, among others: laws protecting consumers against deceptive practices; laws relating to the operation of our properties and how our tenants and operators conduct their business, such as fire, health and safety, data security and privacy laws; federal and state laws affecting hospitals, clinics and other healthcare communities that participate in both medicare and medicaid that mandate allowable costs, pricing, reimbursement procedures and limitations, quality of services and care, food service and physical plants, and similar foreign laws regulating the healthcare industry; resident rights laws (including abuse and neglect laws) and fraud laws; anti-kickback and physician referral laws; the ada and similar state and local laws; and safety and health standards set by the occupational safety and health administration or similar foreign agencies. certain of our properties may also require a license, registration and/or certificate of need to operate. our tenants', operators' or borrowers' failure to comply with any of these laws, regulations or requirements could result in loss of accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension or decertification from government healthcare programs, civil liability, loss of license or closure of the facility and/or the incurrence of considerable costs arising from an investigation or regulatory action, which may have an adverse effect on facilities owned by or mortgaged to us, and therefore may materially adversely impact us. see item 1 business government regulation, licensing and enforcement healthcare licensure and certificate of need above. we may be unable to successfully foreclose on the collateral securing our real estate-related loans, and even if we are successful in our foreclosure efforts, we may be unable to successfully operate, occupy or reposition the underlying real estate, which may adversely affect our ability to recover our investments. if a tenant or operator defaults under one of our mortgages or mezzanine loans, we may have to foreclose on the loan or protect our interest by acquiring title to the collateral and thereafter making substantial improvements or repairs in order to maximize the property's investment potential. in some cases, the collateral consists of the equity interests in an entity that directly or indirectly owns the applicable real property or interests in operating facilities and, accordingly, we may not have full recourse to assets of that entity, or that entity may have incurred unexpected liabilities. tenants, operators or borrowers may contest enforcement of foreclosure or other remedies, seek bankruptcy protection against our exercise of enforcement or other remedies and/or bring claims for lender liability in response to actions to enforce mortgage obligations. foreclosure-related costs, high loan-to-value ratios or declines in the value of the facility may prevent us from realizing an amount equal to our mortgage or mezzanine loan upon foreclosure, and we may be required to record a valuation allowance for such losses. even if we are able to successfully foreclose on the collateral securing our real estate-related loans, we may inherit properties for which we may be unable to expeditiously secure tenants or operators, if at all, or we may acquire equity interests that we are unable to immediately resell due to limitations under the securities laws, either of which would adversely affect our ability to fully recover our investment. 20 table of contents required regulatory approvals can delay or prohibit transfers of our healthcare facilities. transfers of healthcare facilities to successor tenants or operators are typically subject to regulatory approvals or ratifications, including, but not limited to, change of ownership approvals and medicare and medicaid provider arrangements that are not required for transfers of other types of commercial operations and other types of real estate. the replacement of any tenant or operator could be delayed by the regulatory approval process of any federal, state or local government agency necessary for the transfer of the facility or the replacement of the operator licensed to manage the facility. if we are unable to find a suitable replacement tenant or operator upon favorable terms, or at all, we may take possession of a facility, which could expose us to successor liability, require us to indemnify subsequent operators to whom we transfer the operating rights and licenses, or require us to spend substantial time and funds to preserve the value of the property and adapt the facility to other uses, all of which may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. risks related to our capital structure and market conditions interest rate increases could result in a decrease in our stock price and increased interest costs on new debt and existing variable rate debt, which could materially adversely impact our ability to refinance existing debt, sell assets and conduct acquisition, investment and development activities. an increase in interest rates could reduce the amount investors are willing to pay for our common stock. because reit stocks are often perceived as high-yield investments, investors may perceive less relative benefit to owning reit stocks as interest rates and the yield on government treasuries and other bonds increase. additionally, we have existing debt obligations that are variable rate obligations with interest and related payments that vary with the movement of certain indices. if interest rates increase, so would our interest costs for any variable rate debt and for new debt. this increased cost would make the financing of any acquisition and development activity more costly. rising interest rates could limit our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures, or cause us to pay higher interest rates upon refinancing and increase interest expense on refinanced indebtedness. in addition, an increase in interest rates could decrease the amount third parties are willing to pay for our assets, thereby limiting our ability to reposition our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. we manage a portion of our exposure to interest rate risk by accessing debt with staggered maturities and through the use of derivative instruments, primarily interest rate swap agreements. however, no amount of hedging activity can fully insulate us from the risks associated with changes in interest rates. swap agreements involve risk, including that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes, that the amount of income we earn from hedging transactions may be limited by federal tax provisions governing reits and that these arrangements may cause us to pay higher interest rates on our debt obligations than would otherwise be the case. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate risk could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we rely on external sources of capital to fund future capital needs, and if access to such capital is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, it could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to meet commitments as they become due or make future investments necessary to grow our business. we may not be able to fund all future capital needs, including capital expenditures, debt maturities and other commitments, from cash retained from operations and dispositions. if we are unable to obtain enough internal capital, we may need to rely on external sources of capital (including debt and equity financing) to fulfill our capital requirements. our access to capital depends upon a number of factors, some of which we have little or no control over, including but not limited to: general availability of capital, including less favorable terms, rising interest rates and increased borrowing costs; the market price of the shares of our equity securities and the credit ratings of our debt and any preferred securities we may issue; the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions; our degree of financial leverage and operational flexibility; the financial integrity of our lenders, which might impair their ability to meet their commitments to us or their willingness to make additional loans to us, and our inability to replace the financing commitment of any such lender on favorable terms, or at all; 21 table of contents the stability of the market value of our properties; the financial performance and general market perception of our tenants and operators; changes in the credit ratings on u.s. government debt securities or default or delay in payment by the united states of its obligations; issues facing the healthcare industry, including, but not limited to, healthcare reform and changes in government reimbursement policies; and the performance of the national and global economies generally. in 2017, we announced our plans to sell a significant number of assets managed or leased by brookdale, our remaining interest in ridea ii, our mezzanine loan facility to tandem, and our u.k. portfolio. if these transactions are successful, our financial leverage is projected to decrease, which could improve our access to capital on favorable terms. however, these transactions may not be completed on a timely basis or at all, which would delay or impede our deleveraging plan. if access to capital is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, it could have a materially adverse impact on our ability to fund operations, repay or refinance our debt obligations, fund dividend payments, acquire properties and make the investments needed to grow our business. adverse changes in our credit ratings could impair our ability to obtain additional debt and equity financing on favorable terms, if at all, and negatively impact the market price of our securities, including our common stock. our credit ratings can affect the amount and type of capital we can access, as well as the terms of any financing we may obtain. we may be unable to maintain our current credit ratings, and in the event that our current credit ratings deteriorate, we would likely incur higher borrowing costs, which would make it more difficult or expensive to obtain additional financing or refinance existing obligations and commitments. also, a downgrade in our credit ratings would trigger additional costs or other potentially negative consequences under our current and future credit facilities and debt instruments. the credit ratings of our senior unsecured debt are based on, among other things, our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position, level of indebtedness and pending or future changes in the regulatory framework applicable to our operators and our industry. our level of indebtedness may increase and materially adversely affect our future operations. our outstanding indebtedness as of december 31, 2017 , was approximately $7.9 billion . we may incur additional indebtedness, including in connection with the development or acquisition of assets, which may be substantial. any significant additional indebtedness would likely negatively affect the credit ratings of our debt and require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to interest and principal payments due on our indebtedness. greater demands on our cash resources may reduce funds available to us to pay dividends, conduct development activities, make capital expenditures and acquisitions or carry out other aspects of our business strategy. increased indebtedness can also make us more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions and create competitive disadvantages for us compared to other companies with relatively lower debt levels. increased future debt service obligations may limit our operational flexibility, including our ability to finance or refinance our properties, contribute properties to joint ventures or sell properties as needed. covenants in our debt instruments limit our operational flexibility, and breaches of these covenants could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. the terms of our current secured and unsecured debt instruments and other indebtedness that we may incur, require or will require us to comply with a number of customary financial and other covenants, such as maintaining leverage ratios, minimum tangible net worth requirements, reit status and certain levels of debt service coverage. our continued ability to incur additional debt and to conduct business in general is subject to compliance with these financial and other covenants, which limit our operational flexibility. for example, mortgages on our properties contain customary covenants such as those that limit or restrict our ability, without the consent of the lender, to further encumber or sell the applicable properties, or to replace the applicable tenant or operator. breaches of certain covenants may result in defaults under the mortgages on our properties and cross-defaults under certain of our other indebtedness, even if we satisfy our payment obligations to the respective obligee. covenants that limit our operational flexibility as well as defaults resulting from the breach of any of these covenants could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 22 table of contents cash available for distribution to stockholders may be insufficient to make dividend distributions at expected levels and are made at the discretion of our board of directors. if cash available for distribution generated by our assets decreases as a result of our announced dispositions or otherwise, we may be unable to make dividend distributions at expected levels. our inability to make expected distributions would likely result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. all distributions are made at the discretion of our board of directors in accordance with maryland law and depend on our earnings, our financial condition, debt and equity capital available to us, our expectations of our future capital requirements and operating performance, restrictive covenants in our financial or other contractual arrangements (including those in our credit facility agreement), maintenance of our reit qualification, restrictions under maryland law and other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant from time to time. additionally, our ability to make distributions will be adversely affected if any of the risks described herein, or other significant adverse events, occur. volatility, disruption or uncertainty in the financial markets may impair our ability to raise capital, obtain new financing or refinance existing obligations and fund real estate and development activities. we may be affected by general market and economic conditions. increased or prolonged market disruption, volatility or uncertainty could materially adversely impact our ability to raise capital, obtain new financing or refinance our existing obligations as they mature and fund real estate and development activities. market volatility could also lead to significant uncertainty in the valuation of our investments and those of our joint ventures, which may result in a substantial decrease in the value of our properties and those of our joint ventures. as a result, we may be unable to recover the carrying amount of such investments and the associated goodwill, if any, which may require us to recognize impairment charges in earnings. we may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. we have certain investments in international markets where the u.s. dollar is not the denominated currency. the ownership of investments located outside of the united states subjects us to risk from fluctuations in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the u.s. dollar. a significant change in the value of the british pound sterling ( gbp ) may have a materially adverse effect on our financial position, debt covenant ratios, results of operations and cash flow. we may attempt to manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes through the use of derivative contracts or other methods. for example, we currently utilize gbp denominated liabilities as a natural hedge against our gbp denominated assets. additionally, we executed currency swap contracts to hedge the risk related to a portion of the forecasted interest receipts on these investments. however, no amount of hedging activity can fully insulate us from the risks associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates, and the failure to hedge effectively against foreign currency exchange rate risk, if we choose to engage in such activities, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, any international currency gain recognized with respect to changes in exchange rates may not qualify under the 75% gross income test or the 95% gross income test that we must satisfy annually in order to qualify and maintain our status as a reit. risks related to other events we are subject to certain provisions of maryland law and our charter relating to business combinations which may prevent a transaction that may otherwise be in the interest of our stockholders. the maryland business combination act provides that unless exempted, a maryland corporation may not engage in business combinations, including a merger, consolidation, share exchange or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities with an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder became an interested stockholder, and thereafter unless specified criteria are met. an interested stockholder is generally a person owning or controlling, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting power of the outstanding voting stock of a maryland corporation. unless our board of directors takes action to exempt us, generally or with respect to certain transactions, from this statute, the maryland business combination act will be applicable to business combinations between us and other persons. in addition to the restrictions on business combinations contained in the maryland business combination act, our charter also contains restrictions on business combinations. our charter requires that, except in certain circumstances, business combinations, including a merger or consolidation, and certain asset transfers and issuances of securities, with a related person, including a beneficial owner of 10% or more of our outstanding voting stock, be approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 90% of our outstanding voting stock. 23 table of contents the restrictions on business combinations provided under maryland law and contained in our charter may delay, defer or prevent a change of control or other transaction even if such transaction involves a premium price for our common stock or our stockholders believe that such transaction is otherwise in their best interests. unfavorable resolution of litigation matters and disputes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. from time to time, we are involved in legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims. we may also be named as defendants in lawsuits arising out of our alleged actions or the alleged actions of our tenants and operators for which such tenants and operators have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless. an unfavorable resolution of any such litigation may have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. regardless of the outcome, litigation or other legal proceedings may result in substantial costs, disruption of our normal business operations and the diversion of management attention. we may be unable to prevail in, or achieve a favorable settlement of, any pending or future legal action against us. see item 3 legal proceedings of this annual report on form 10-k. loss of our key personnel could temporarily disrupt our operations and adversely affect us. we depend on the efforts of our executive officers, and competition for these individuals is intense. although they are covered by our executive severance plan and change in control plan, which provide many of the benefits typically found in executive employment agreements, none of our executive officers have employment agreements with us. the loss or limited availability of the services of any of our executive officers, or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel, could, at least temporarily, have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and the value of our common stock. we may experience uninsured or underinsured losses, which could result in a significant loss of the capital invested in a property, lower than expected future revenues or unanticipated expense. we maintain and regularly review the comprehensive insurance coverage on our properties with terms, conditions, limits and deductibles that we believe are adequate and appropriate given the relative risk and costs of such coverage. however, a large number of our properties are located in areas exposed to earthquake, windstorm, flood and other natural disasters. in particular, our life science portfolio is concentrated in areas known to be subject to earthquake activity. while we purchase insurance coverage for earthquake, windstorm, flood and other natural disasters that we believe is adequate in light of current industry practice and analyses prepared by outside consultants, such insurance may not fully cover such losses. for example, we incurred uninsured losses of approximately $11 million during 2017 as a result of hurricane-related property damage. these losses can result in decreased anticipated revenues from a property and the loss of all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property. following these events, we may remain liable for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. the insurance market for such exposures can be very volatile, and we may be unable to purchase the limits and terms we desire on a commercially reasonable basis. in addition, there are certain exposures for which we do not purchase insurance because we do not believe it is economically feasible to do so or where there is no viable insurance market. if one of our properties experiences a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds policy coverage limits, we could lose our investment in the damaged property as well as the anticipated future cash flows from such property. if the damaged property is subject to recourse indebtedness, we could continue to be liable for the indebtedness even if the property is irreparably damaged. in addition, even if damage to our properties is covered by insurance, a disruption of business caused by a casualty event may result in loss of revenues for us. any business interruption insurance may not fully compensate the lender or us for such loss of revenue. environmental compliance costs and liabilities associated with our real estate-related investments may be substantial and may materially impair the value of those investments. federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations may require us, as a current or previous owner of real estate, to investigate and clean up certain hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum released at a property. we may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage and for investigation and cleanup costs incurred by the third parties in connection with the contamination. the costs of cleanup and remediation could be substantial. in addition, some environmental laws create a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and the costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. although we currently carry environmental insurance on our properties in an amount that we believe is commercially reasonable and generally require our tenants and operators to indemnify us for environmental liabilities they cause, such liabilities could exceed the amount of our insurance, the financial ability of the tenant or operator to indemnify us or the value of the contaminated property. as the owner of a site, we may also be held liable to third parties for damages and injuries resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the site. we may also experience environmental liabilities arising from conditions not known to 24 table of contents us. the cost of defending against these claims, complying with environmental regulatory requirements, conducting remediation of any contaminated property, or paying personal injury or other claims or fines could be substantial and could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, the presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may materially adversely affect our ability to use, sell or lease the property or to borrow using the property as collateral. we rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our business. we rely on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes, including financial transactions and records, and maintaining personal identifying information and tenant and lease data. we purchase some of our information technology from vendors, on whom our systems depend. we rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for the processing, transmission and storage of confidential tenant and customer data, including individually identifiable information relating to financial accounts. although we have taken steps to protect the security of our information systems and the data maintained in those systems, it is possible that our safety and security measures will not prevent the systems' improper functioning or damage, or the improper access or disclosure of personally identifiable information such as in the event of cyber-attacks. in addition, the pace and unpredictability of cyber threats generally quickly renders long-term implementation plans designed to address cybersecurity risks obsolete. security breaches, including those caused by physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, malware, worms, attacks by hackers or foreign governments, disruptions from unauthorized access and tampering, including through social engineering such as phishing attacks, coordinated denial-of-service attacks and similar breaches, can create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. the risk of security breaches has generally increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attacks and intrusions have increased. in some cases, it may be difficult to anticipate or immediately detect such incidents and the damage they cause. in addition, our technology infrastructure and information systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss and telecommunications failures. any failure to maintain proper function, security and availability of our information systems and the data maintained in those systems could interrupt our operations, damage our reputation, subject us to liability claims or regulatory penalties and could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. risk related to tax, including reit-related risks loss of our tax status as a reit would substantially reduce our available funds and would have materially adverse consequences for us and the value of our common stock. qualification as a reit involves the application of numerous highly technical and complex provisions of the code, for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations, as well as the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. we intend to continue to operate in a manner that enables us to qualify as a reit. however, our qualification and taxation as a reit depend upon our ability to meet, through actual annual operating results, asset diversification, distribution levels and diversity of stock ownership, the various qualification tests imposed under the code. for example, to qualify as a reit, at least 95% of our gross income in any year must be derived from qualifying sources, and we must make distributions to our stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our reit taxable income, excluding net capital gains. in addition, new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could change the tax laws or interpretations of the tax laws regarding qualification as a reit, or the federal income tax consequences of that qualification, in a manner that is materially adverse to our stockholders. accordingly, there is no assurance that we have operated or will continue to operate in a manner so as to qualify or remain qualified as a reit. if we lose our reit status, we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available to make payments of principal and interest on the debt securities we issue and to make distributions to stockholders. if we fail to qualify as a reit: we will not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income; we will be subject to corporate-level income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates; we could be subject to increased state and local income taxes; and unless we are entitled to relief under relevant statutory provisions, we will be disqualified from taxation as a reit for the four taxable years following the year during which we fail to qualify as a reit. 25 table of contents as a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a reit could also impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital and could materially adversely affect the value of our common stock. the present federal income tax treatment of reits may be modified, possibly with retroactive effect, by legislative, judicial or administrative action at any time, which could affect the federal income tax treatment of an investment in us. the federal income tax rules dealing with reits constantly are under review by persons involved in the legislative process, the u.s. internal revenue service (the irs ) and the u.s. treasury department, which results in statutory changes as well as frequent revisions to regulations and interpretations. revisions in federal tax laws and interpretations thereof could affect or cause us to change our investments and commitments and affect the tax considerations of an investment in us. we could have potential deferred and contingent tax liabilities from corporate acquisitions that could limit, delay or impede future sales of our properties. if, during the five-year period beginning on the date we acquire certain companies, we recognize a gain on the disposition of any property acquired, then, to the extent of the excess of (i) the fair market value of such property as of the acquisition date over (ii) our adjusted income tax basis in such property as of that date, we will be required to pay a corporate-level federal income tax on this gain at the highest regular corporate rate. there can be no assurance that these triggering dispositions will not occur, and these requirements could limit, delay or impede future sales of our properties. in addition, the irs may assert liabilities against us for corporate income taxes for taxable years prior to the time that we acquire certain companies, in which case we will owe these taxes plus interest and penalties, if any. there are uncertainties relating to the calculation of non-reit tax earnings and profits ( e&amp;p ) in certain acquisitions, which may require us to distribute e&amp;p. in order to remain qualified as a reit, we are required to distribute to our stockholders all of the accumulated non-reit e&amp;p of certain companies that we acquire, prior to the close of the first taxable year in which the acquisition occurs. failure to make such e&amp;p distributions would result in our disqualification as a reit. the determination of the amount to be distributed in such e&amp;p distributions is a complex factual and legal determination. we may have less than complete information at the time we undertake our analysis, or we may interpret the applicable law differently from the irs. we currently believe that we have satisfied the requirements relating to such e&amp;p distributions. there are, however, substantial uncertainties relating to the determination of e&amp;p, including the possibility that the irs could successfully assert that the taxable income of the companies acquired should be increased, which would increase our non-reit e&amp;p. moreover, an audit of the acquired company following our acquisition could result in an increase in accumulated non-reit e&amp;p, which could require us to pay an additional taxable distribution to our then-existing stockholders, if we qualify under rules for curing this type of default, or could result in our disqualification as a reit. thus, we might fail to satisfy the requirement that we distribute all of our non-reit e&amp;p by the close of the first taxable year in which the acquisition occurs. moreover, although there are procedures available to cure a failure to distribute all of our e&amp;p, we cannot now determine whether we will be able to take advantage of these procedures or the economic impact on us of doing so. changes to u.s. federal income tax laws could materially and adversely affect us and our stockholders. the recently enacted tax cuts and jobs act (the act'') makes substantial changes to the code. among those changes are a significant permanent reduction in the generally applicable corporate tax rate, changes in the taxation of individuals and other non-corporate taxpayers that generally but not universally reduce their taxes on a temporary basis subject to sunset'' provisions, the elimination or modification of various currently allowed deductions (including substantial limitations on the deductibility of interest and, in the case of individuals, the deduction for personal state and local taxes), certain additional limitations on the deduction of net operating losses, and preferential rates of taxation on most ordinary reit dividends and certain business income derived by non-corporate taxpayers in comparison to other ordinary income recognized by such taxpayers. the effect of these, and the many other, changes made in the act is highly uncertain, both in terms of their direct effect on the taxation of an investment in our common stock and their indirect effect on the value of our assets or market conditions generally. furthermore, many of the provisions of the act will require guidance through the issuance of treasury regulations in order to assess their effect. there may be a substantial delay before such regulations are promulgated, increasing the uncertainty as to the ultimate effect of the statutory amendments on us. it is also likely that there will be technical corrections legislation proposed with respect to the act next year, the effect of which cannot be predicted and may be adverse to us or our stockholders. 26 table of contents our international investments and operations may result in additional tax-related risks. we have investments and operations in the u.k., and may further expand internationally. international expansion presents tax-related risks that are different from those we face with respect to our domestic properties and operations. these risks include, but are not limited to: international currency gain recognized with respect to changes in exchange rates may not always qualify under the 75% gross income test or the 95% gross income test that we must satisfy annually in order to qualify and maintain our status as a reit; challenges with respect to the repatriation of foreign earnings and cash; and challenges of complying with foreign tax rules (including the possible revisions in tax treaties or other laws and regulations, including those governing the taxation of our international income). our charter contains ownership limits with respect to our common stock and other classes of capital stock. our charter contains restrictions on the ownership and transfer of our common stock and preferred stock that are intended to assist us in preserving our qualification as a reit. under our charter, subject to certain exceptions, no person or entity may own, actually or constructively, more than 9.8% (by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the outstanding shares of our common stock or any class or series of our preferred stock. additionally, our charter has a 9.9% ownership limitation on the direct or indirect ownership of our voting shares, which may include common stock or other classes of capital stock. our board of directors, in its sole discretion, may exempt a proposed transferee from either ownership limit. the ownership limits may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 64 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to various market risks, including the potential loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, specifically the gbp. we use derivative financial instruments in the normal course of business to mitigate interest rate and foreign currency risk. we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. derivatives are recorded on the consolidated balance sheets at fair value (see note 23 to the consolidated financial statements). to illustrate the effect of movements in the interest rate and foreign currency markets, we performed a market sensitivity analysis on our hedging instruments. we applied various basis point spreads to the underlying interest rate curves and foreign currency exchange rates of the derivative portfolio in order to determine the change in fair value. assuming a one percentage point change in the underlying interest rate curve and foreign currency exchange rates, the estimated change in fair value of each of the underlying derivative instruments would not exceed $2 million . interest rate risk at december 31, 2017 , we are exposed to market risks related to fluctuations in interest rates primarily on variable rate debt. as of december 31, 2017 , $44 million of our variable-rate debt was hedged by interest rate swap transactions. the interest rate swaps are designated as cash flow hedges, with the objective of managing the exposure to interest rate risk by converting the interest rates on our variable-rate debt to fixed interest rates. interest rate fluctuations will generally not affect our future earnings or cash flows on our fixed rate debt and assets until their maturity or earlier prepayment and refinancing. if interest rates have risen at the time we seek to refinance our fixed rate debt, whether at maturity or otherwise, our future earnings and cash flows could adversely be affected by additional borrowing costs. conversely, lower interest rates at the time of refinancing may reduce our overall borrowing costs. however, interest rate changes will affect the fair value of our fixed rate instruments. a one percentage point increase or decrease in interest rates would change the fair value of our fixed rate debt by approximately $332 million and $358 million, respectively, and would not materially impact earnings or cash flows. a one percentage point increase or decrease in interest rates would change the fair value of our fixed rate debt investments by approximately $8 million and $9 million, respectively, and would not materially impact earnings or cash flows. conversely, changes in interest rates on variable rate debt and investments would change our future earnings and cash flows, but not materially impact the fair value of those instruments. assuming a one percentage point change in the interest rate related to our variable-rate debt and variable-rate investments, and assuming no other changes in the outstanding balance as of december 31, 2017 , our annual interest expense and interest income would change by approximately $12 million and $1 million , respectively. foreign currency exchange rate risk at december 31, 2017 , our exposure to foreign currencies primarily relates to u.k. investments in leased real estate and related gbp denominated cash flows. our foreign currency exposure is partially mitigated through the use of gbp denominated borrowings and foreign currency swap contracts. based solely on our operating results for the year ended december 31, 2017 , including the impact of existing hedging arrangements, if the value of the gbp relative to the u.s. dollar were to increase or decrease by 10% compared to the average exchange rate during the year ended december 31, 2017, the increase or decrease to our cash flows would not be material. 64 table of contents market risk we have investments in marketable debt securities classified as held-to-maturity because we have the positive intent and ability to hold the securities to maturity. held-to-maturity securities are recorded at amortized cost and adjusted for the amortization of premiums and discounts through maturity. we consider a variety of factors in evaluating an other-than-temporary decline in value, such as: the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been less than our current adjusted carrying value; the issuer's financial condition, capital strength and near-term prospects; any recent events specific to that issuer and economic conditions of its industry; and our investment horizon in relationship to an anticipated near-term recovery in the market value, if any. at december 31, 2017 , both the fair value and carrying value of marketable debt securities were $19 million . 65 table of contentsrisk factors 10 risk factors the section below discusses the most significant risk factors that may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. as set forth below, we believe that the risks we face generally fall into the following categories: risks related to our business and operations; risks related to our capital structure and market conditions; risks related to other events; and risks related to tax, including reit-related risks. 10 table of contents risks related to our business and operations we depend on one tenant and operator, brookdale, for a significant percentage of our revenues and net operating income. continuing adverse developments, including operational challenges, in brookdale's business and affairs or financial condition would likely have a materially adverse effect on us. we own our senior housing properties utilizing triple-net lease and ridea structures. as of december 31, 2018 , brookdale (i) leased 43 properties in our senior housing triple-net segment, (ii) managed on our behalf 35 properties in our shop segment, and (iii) managed 15 ccrcs and one additional shop property owned by our unconsolidated joint ventures with brookdale in our other segment. these properties represent a significant portion of our portfolio, revenues and operating income. properties managed by brookdale in our shop segment as of december 31, 2018 , accounted for 7% of our real estate investments based on total assets. under ridea, we are required to engage a third-party operator, such as brookdale, that meets the requirements of an eligible independent contractor to manage and operate the day-to-day business of the properties. as required under ridea, the operator provides comprehensive property management and accounting services for these properties and we are limited in our ability to control or influence operations. accordingly, we rely on the operator's personnel, expertise, technical resources, regulatory compliance programs, information systems, proprietary information, good faith and judgment to manage and operate these properties efficiently and effectively. we also must rely on the operator to set appropriate resident fees, manage occupancy, provide accurate and complete property-level financial results for these properties in a timely manner and otherwise operate them in compliance with the terms of our management agreements and all applicable laws and regulations. however, as the owner of the property under a ridea structure, we are ultimately responsible for any operating deficits and other liabilities resulting from the operation of these properties, subject to limited exceptions such as gross negligence or willful misconduct by our operators. see, we assume operational risks with respect to our shop properties managed in ridea structures that could have a material adverse effect our business, results of operations and financial condition. properties leased by brookdale in our triple-net segment accounted for 6% of our total revenues for the year ended december 31, 2018 . in its capacity as a triple-net tenant, brookdale is contractually obligated to pay all insurance, tax, utilities, maintenance and repair expenses in connection with the leased properties. brookdale may not have sufficient assets, income and access to financing to enable it to satisfy its obligations to us, and any failure by brookdale to do so would have a material adverse effect on us. in addition, we depend on brookdale's maintenance and repair of the properties to remain competitive and attract and retain patients and residents. adverse developments in brookdale's business and related declining rent coverage ratios have increased its credit risk. if these adverse developments result in prolonged inadequate property maintenance or improvements, or impair brookdale's access to capital necessary for maintenance or improvements, it could lead to a reduction in occupancy rates and market rents and have a materially adverse effect on us. brookdale has experienced challenges in recent years, including with respect to operational performance and stockholder activism, among others. brookdale, as well as other operators, have been adversely affected by increased competition that has negatively impacted occupancy rates, as well as by increases in expenses, including increased labor costs. brookdale's challenges could divert management's attention, increase employee turnover, and impair its ability to operate our properties efficiently and effectively. these challenges and any adverse developments in brookdale's business, affairs and financial results could result in, among other adverse events, declining operational and financial performance of our properties. we have been in the process of reducing our exposure to brookdale through asset sales and transitions to other operators (see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations 2018 transaction overview brookdale transactions update for more information). if we determine to sell or transition additional properties currently leased to or managed by brookdale, we may experience operational challenges and/or significantly declining financial performance for those properties, as we did with brookdale properties sold or transitioned in 2018. any failure of brookdale to maintain the performance of our properties or to meet its obligations to us under its leases and management agreements could materially reduce our cash flow, net operating income and results of operations and have other materially adverse effects on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we assume operational risks with respect to our shop properties managed in ridea structures that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. ridea permits reits, such as us, to own or partially own qualified healthcare properties in a structure through which we can participate directly in the cash flow of the properties' operations (as compared to receiving only contractual rent payments under a triple-net lease) in compliance with reit requirements. the criteria for operating a qualified healthcare property in a ridea structure requires us to lease the property to an affiliate trs and for such affiliate trs to engage an independent qualifying management company, or operator (also known as an eligible independent contractor) to manage and operate the day-to-day business of the property. the operator performs its services in exchange for a management fee. as a result, under a ridea structure, 11 table of contents we are required to rely on our operator to manage and operate the property, including hiring and training all employees, entering into all third-party contracts for the benefit of the property, including resident/patient agreements, complying with laws, including but not limited to healthcare laws, and providing resident care. however, as the owner of the property under a ridea structure, our trs, and hence we, are ultimately responsible for all operational risks and other liabilities of the property, other than those arising out of certain actions by our operator, such as gross negligence or willful misconduct. operational risks include, and our resulting revenues therefore depend on, among other things: occupancy rates; the entrance fees and rental rates charged to residents; medicare and medicaid reimbursement rates, to the extent applicable; our operator's reputation and ability to attract and retain residents; general economic conditions and market factors that impact seniors; competition from other senior housing providers; compliance with federal, state, local and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations and standards; litigation involving our properties or residents/patients; the availability and cost of general and professional liability insurance coverage; and the ability to control operating expenses. although we are permitted under a ridea structure to have certain general oversight approval rights (e.g., budgets, material contracts, etc.) and the right to review operational and financial reporting information, our operators are ultimately in control of the day-to-day business of the property. as a result, we have limited rights to direct or influence the business or operations of our properties in the shop segment and we depend on our operators to operate these properties in a manner that complies with applicable law, minimizes legal risk and maximizes the value of our investment. when we use a ridea structure, our trs is generally required to be the holder of the applicable healthcare license and is the entity that is enrolled in government healthcare programs (i.e., medicare, medicaid), where applicable. as the holder of a healthcare license, our trs and we (through our ownership interest in our trs) are subject to various regulatory laws. most states regulate and inspect healthcare property operations, patient care, construction and the safety of the physical environment. however, we are required under ridea to rely on our operators to oversee and direct these aspects of the properties' operations to ensure compliance with these applicable laws and regulations. if one or more of our healthcare properties fails to comply with applicable laws, our trs would be responsible (except in limited circumstances, such as the gross negligence or willful misconduct of our operators, where we would have a contractual claim against them), which could subject our trs to penalties including loss or suspension of licenses and certificates of need, certification or accreditation, exclusion from government healthcare programs (i.e., medicare, medicaid), administrative sanctions and civil monetary penalties. some states also reserve the right to sanction affiliates of a licensee when they take administrative action against the licensee. additionally, when we receive individually identifiable health information relating to residents of our healthcare properties, we are subject to federal and state data privacy and security laws and rules, and could be subject to liability in the event of an audit, complaint, cybersecurity attack or data breach. furthermore, our trs has exposure to professional liability claims that could arise out of resident claims, such as quality of care, and the associated litigation costs. rents received from the trs in a ridea structure are treated as qualifying rents from real property for reit tax purposes only if (i) they are paid pursuant to a lease of a qualified healthcare property and (ii) the operator qualifies as an eligible independent contractor, as defined in the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code ). if either of these requirements are not satisfied, then the rents will not be qualifying rents. decreases in our tenants', operators' or borrowers' revenues or increases in their expenses could affect their ability to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us. our leases consist of triple-net leases, in which we lease our properties directly to tenants and operators, as well as ridea leases, in which we lease our properties to an affiliate trs that enters into a management agreement with an eligible independent contractor, or operator, to manage and oversee the day-to-day business and operations of the properties. we are also a direct or indirect lender to various tenants and operators and separately provide loans to certain third parties. we have very limited control over the success or failure of our tenants', operators' and borrowers' businesses, regardless of the structure of our relationship with them. any of our triple-net tenants or operators under a ridea structure may experience a downturn in their business that materially weakens their financial condition. as a result, they may fail to make payments or perform their obligations when due. although we generally have arrangements and other agreements that give us the right under specified circumstances to terminate a lease, evict a tenant or terminate our operator, or demand immediate repayment of outstanding loan amounts or other obligations to us, we may not be able to enforce such rights or we may determine not to do so if we believe that enforcement of our rights would be more detrimental to our business than seeking alternative approaches. our senior housing tenants and our shop segment under a ridea structure primarily depend on private sources for their revenues and the ability of their patients and residents to pay fees. costs associated with independent and assisted living services are not generally reimbursable under governmental reimbursement programs such as medicare and medicaid. accordingly, our tenants and operators of our shop segments depend on attracting seniors with appropriate levels of income and assets, which may be affected by many factors including prevailing economic and market trends, consumer confidence and demographics. consequently, if our tenants or operators on our behalf fail to effectively conduct their operations, or to maintain and improve our properties, it could adversely affect our business reputation as the owner of the properties, as well as the business reputation of our tenants or 12 table of contents operators and their ability to attract and retain patients and residents in our properties, which could have a materially adverse effect on our and our tenant's or operator's business, results of operations and financial condition. our senior housing tenants and our shop segment under a ridea structure also rely on reimbursements from governmental programs for a portion of the revenues from certain properties. changes in reimbursement policies and other governmental regulation, such as potential changes to, or repeal of, the patient protection and affordable care act, along with the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (the affordable care act ), that may result from actions by congress or executive orders, may result in reductions in our tenants' revenues or in our revenues from our ridea structures, operations and cash flows and affect our tenants' ability to meet their obligations to us or our financial performance through a ridea structure. in addition, failure to comply with reimbursement regulations or other laws applicable to healthcare providers could result in penalties, fines, litigation costs, lost revenue or other consequences, which could adversely impact our tenants' ability to make contractual rent payments to us under a triple-net lease or our cash flows from operations under a ridea structure. for a further discussion of the legislation and regulation that are applicable to us and our tenants, operators and borrowers, see the requirements of, or changes to, government reimbursement programs such as medicare or medicaid, may adversely affect our tenants', operators' and borrowers' ability to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us. revenues of our senior housing tenants and our shop segment under a ridea structure are also dependent on a number of other factors, including licensed bed capacity, occupancy, the healthcare needs of residents, the rate of reimbursement, the income and assets of seniors in the regions in which we own properties, and social and environmental factors. for example, due to generally increased vulnerability to illness, a severe flu season, an epidemic or any other widespread illness could result in early move-outs or delayed move-ins during quarantine periods, which would reduce our operators' revenues. additionally, new and evolving payor and provider programs in the united states, including but not limited to medicare advantage, dual eligible, accountable care organizations, bundled payments and other value-based reimbursement arrangements, have resulted in reduced reimbursement rates, average length of stay and average daily census, particularly for higher acuity patients. if our tenants fail to maintain revenues sufficient to meet their financial obligations to us, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. similarly, if our operators under a ridea structure underperform, our business, results of operations and financial condition would also be materially adversely affected. increased competition and market changes have resulted and may further result in lower net revenues for some of our tenants, operators and borrowers and may affect their ability to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us. the healthcare industry is highly competitive. the occupancy levels at, and rental income from, our properties are dependent on our ability and the ability of our tenants, operators and borrowers to compete with other tenants and operators on a number of different levels, including the quality of care provided, reputation, the physical appearance of a property, price, the range of services offered, family preference, alternatives for healthcare delivery, the supply of competing properties, physicians, staff, referral sources, location, and the size and demographics of the population in the surrounding area. in addition, our tenants, operators and borrowers face an increasingly competitive labor market for skilled management personnel and nurses. an inability to attract and retain skilled management personnel and nurses and other trained personnel could negatively impact the ability of our tenants, operators and borrowers to meet their obligations to us. a shortage of nurses or other trained personnel, union activities or general inflationary pressures on wages may force tenants, operators and borrowers to enhance pay and benefits packages to compete effectively for skilled personnel, or to use more expensive contract personnel, but they be unable to offset these added costs by increasing the rates charged to residents. any increase in labor costs and other property operating expenses or any failure by our tenants, operators or borrowers to attract and retain qualified personnel could adversely affect our cash flow and have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our tenants, operators and borrowers also compete with numerous other companies providing similar healthcare services or alternatives such as home health agencies, life care at home, community-based service programs, retirement communities and convalescent centers. this competition, which is due, in part, to over-development in some segments in which we invest, has caused the occupancy rate of newly constructed buildings to slow and the monthly rate that many newly built and previously existing properties were able to obtain for their services to decrease. our tenants, operators and borrowers may be unable to achieve occupancy and rate levels, and to manage their expenses, in a way that will enable them to meet all of their obligations to us. further, many competing companies may have resources and attributes that are superior to those of our tenants, operators and borrowers. our tenants, operators and borrowers may encounter increased competition that could limit their ability to maintain or attract residents or expand their businesses or to manage their expenses, which could materially adversely affect their ability to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us, potentially decreasing our revenues, impairing our assets and/or increasing collection and dispute costs. the financial deterioration, insolvency or bankruptcy of one or more of our major tenants, operators or borrowers may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 13 table of contents a downturn in any of our tenants', operators' or borrowers' businesses could ultimately lead to voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy or similar insolvency proceedings, including but not limited to assignment for the benefit of creditors, liquidation, or winding-up. bankruptcy and insolvency laws afford certain rights to a defaulting tenant, operator or borrower that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization that may render certain of our remedies unenforceable or, at the least, delay our ability to pursue such remedies and realize any related recoveries. for example, we cannot evict a tenant or operator solely because of its bankruptcy filing. a debtor has the right to assume, or to assume and assign to a third party, or to reject its executory contracts and unexpired leases in a bankruptcy proceeding. if a debtor were to reject its leases with us, obligations under such rejected leases would cease. the claim against the rejecting debtor would be an unsecured claim, which would be limited by the statutory cap set forth in the u.s. bankruptcy code. this statutory cap may be substantially less than the remaining rent actually owed under the lease. in addition, a debtor may also assert in bankruptcy proceedings that leases should be re-characterized as financing agreements, which could result in our being deemed a lender instead of a landlord. a lender's rights and remedies, as compared to a landlord's, generally are materially less favorable, and our rights as a lender may be subordinated to other creditors' rights. furthermore, the automatic stay provisions of the u.s. bankruptcy code would preclude us from enforcing our remedies unless we first obtain relief from the court having jurisdiction over the bankruptcy case. this would effectively limit or delay our ability to collect unpaid rent or interest payments, and we may ultimately not receive any payment at all. in addition, we would likely be required to fund certain expenses and obligations (e.g., real estate taxes, insurance, debt costs and maintenance expenses) to preserve the value of our properties, avoid the imposition of liens on our properties or transition our properties to a new tenant or operator. additionally, we lease many of our properties to healthcare providers who provide long-term custodial care to the elderly. evicting these operators for failure to pay rent while the property is occupied may involve specific procedural or regulatory requirements and may not be successful. even if eviction is possible, we may determine not to do so due to reputational or other risks. bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings typically also result in increased costs to the operator, significant management distraction and performance declines. if we are unable to transition affected properties, they would likely experience prolonged operational disruption, leading to lower occupancy rates and further depressed revenues. publicity about the operator's financial condition and insolvency proceeds may also negatively impact their and our reputations, decreasing customer demand and revenues. any or all of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, results of operations and cash flows. these risks would be magnified where we lease multiple properties to a single operator under a master lease, as an operator failure or default under a master lease would expose us to these risks across multiple properties. we depend on investments in the healthcare property sector, making our profitability more vulnerable to a downturn or slowdown in that specific sector than if we were investing in multiple industries. we concentrate our investments in the healthcare property sector. as a result, we are subject to risks inherent to investments in a single industry. a downturn or slowdown in the healthcare property sector would have a greater adverse impact on our business than if we had investments in multiple industries. specifically, a downturn in the healthcare property sector could negatively impact the ability of our tenants, operators and borrowers to meet their obligations to us, as well as the ability to maintain rental and occupancy rates. this could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, a downturn in the healthcare property sector could adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to sell properties at prices or on terms acceptable to us. in addition, we are exposed to the risks inherent in concentrating our investments in real estate, which investments are relatively illiquid due to a number of factors, including restrictions on our ability to sell properties under applicable reit tax laws, other tax-related considerations, regulatory hurdles and market conditions. our ability to quickly sell or transition any of our properties in response to changes in the performance of our properties or economic and other conditions is limited. we may be unable to recognize full value for any property that we seek to sell for liquidity reasons. our inability to respond rapidly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. tenants and operators that fail to comply with federal, state, local and international laws and regulations, including licensure, certification and inspection requirements, may cease to operate or be unable to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us. our tenants, operators and borrowers are subject to or impacted by extensive, frequently changing federal, state, local and international laws and regulations. these laws and regulations include, among others: laws protecting consumers against deceptive practices; laws relating to the operation of our properties and how our tenants and operators conduct their business, such as fire, health and safety, data security and privacy laws; federal and state laws affecting hospitals, clinics and other healthcare communities that participate in both medicare and medicaid that specify reimbursement rates, pricing, reimbursement procedures and limitations, quality of services and care, background checks, food service and physical plants, and similar foreign laws regulating the healthcare 14 table of contents industry; resident rights laws (including abuse and neglect laws) and fraud laws; anti-kickback and physician referral laws; the ada and similar state and local laws; and safety and health standards set by the occupational safety and health administration or similar foreign agencies. certain of our properties may also require a license, registration and/or certificate of need to operate. our tenants', operators' or borrowers' failure to comply with any of these laws, regulations or requirements could result in loss of accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension or decertification from government healthcare programs, civil liability, and in certain limited instances, criminal penalties, loss of license or closure of the property and/or the incurrence of considerable costs arising from an investigation or regulatory action, which may have an adverse effect on properties that we own and lease to a third party tenant, that we own and operate through a ridea structure or on which we hold a mortgage, and therefore may materially adversely impact us. see item 1 business government regulation, licensing and enforcement healthcare licensure and certificate of need above. if we must replace any of our tenants or operators, we may have difficulty identifying replacements and we may be required to incur substantial renovation costs to make certain of our healthcare properties suitable for other tenants and operators. our tenants may not renew existing leases or our operators may not renew their management agreements beyond their current terms. if we or our tenants or operators terminate or do not renew the leases or management agreements for our properties, we would attempt to reposition those properties with another tenant or operator. we may also voluntarily change operators for a variety of reasons. for example, in november 2017, we announced a plan to transition a significant number of properties managed by brookdale to other operators as part of our strategic plan to reduce our concentration of properties managed or leased by brookdale. healthcare properties are typically highly customized. the improvements generally required to conform a property to healthcare use, such as upgrading electrical, gas and plumbing infrastructure, are costly and at times tenant-specific and are typically subject to regulatory requirements. a new or replacement tenant or operator may require different features in a property, depending on that tenant's or operator's particular business. in addition, infrastructure improvements for life science properties typically are significantly more costly than improvements to other property types due to the highly specialized nature of the properties and the greater lease square footage often required by life science tenants. we may be unable to recover part or all of these higher costs. therefore, if a current tenant or operator is unable to pay rent and/or vacates a property, we may incur substantial expenditures to modify a property and experience delays before we are able to secure another tenant or operator or to accommodate multiple tenants or operators. these expenditures or renovations and delays may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. additionally, we may fail to identify suitable replacements or enter into leases, management agreements or other arrangements with new tenants or operators on a timely basis or on terms as favorable to us as our current leases, if at all. furthermore, during transition periods to new tenants or operators, we anticipate that the attention of existing tenants or operators will be diverted from the performance of the properties, which would cause the financial and operational performance at these properties to decline. for example, brookdale properties we intended to sell or transition performed significantly worse during 2018 than our senior housing properties as a whole. following a decline in performance, we may not be able to rehabilitate the property to previous performance levels, which would adversely impact our results of operations. we also may be required to fund certain expenses and obligations such as real estate taxes, debt costs and maintenance expenses, to preserve the value of, and avoid the imposition of liens on, our properties while they are being repositioned. in addition, we may incur certain obligations and liabilities, including obligations to indemnify the replacement tenant or operator, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we face additional risks associated with property development and redevelopment that can render a project less profitable or not profitable at all and, under certain circumstances, prevent completion of development activities once undertaken. property development and redevelopment is a significant component of our growth strategy. at december 31, 2018 , our active development and redevelopment pipeline was approximately $1.5 billion with remaining costs to complete of approximately $913 million. large-scale, ground-up development of healthcare properties presents additional risks for us, including risks that: a development opportunity may be abandoned after expending significant resources resulting in the loss of deposits or failure to recover expenses already incurred; the development and construction costs of a project may exceed original estimates due to increased interest rates and higher costs relating to materials, transportation, labor, leasing, negligent construction or construction defects, damage, vandalism or accidents, among others, which could make the completion of the development project less profitable; the project may not be completed on schedule as a result of a variety of factors that are beyond our control, including natural disasters, labor conditions, material shortages, regulatory hurdles, civil unrest and acts of war or terrorism, which result in 15 table of contents increases in construction costs and debt service expenses or provide tenants or operators with the right to terminate pre-construction leases; and occupancy rates and rents at a newly completed property may not meet expected levels and could be insufficient to make the property profitable. any of the foregoing risks could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. changes within the life science industry may adversely impact our revenues and results of operations. for the year ended december 31, 2018 , properties in our life science segment accounted for approximately 21% of our total revenues. our life science investments could be adversely affected if the life science industry is impacted by an economic, financial, or banking crisis or if the life science industry migrates from the u.s. to other countries or to areas outside of primary life science markets in south san francisco, california, san diego, california, and greater boston, massachusetts. our ability to negotiate contractual rent escalations on future leases and to achieve increases in rental rates will depend upon market conditions and the demand for life science properties at the time the leases are negotiated and the increases are proposed. if economic, financial or industry conditions adversely affect our life science tenants, we may not be able to lease or re-lease our properties in a timely manner or at favorable rates, which would negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. for example, some of our properties may be better suited for a particular life science industry client tenant and could require modification before we are able to re-lease vacant space to another life science industry client tenant, which may delay the re-leasing process and result in unrecovered costs. additionally, some of our life science properties may not be suitable for lease to traditional office client tenants without significant expenditures on renovations, which could delay an attempt to reposition the property for rent to non-life science tenants. because infrastructure improvements for life science properties typically are significantly more costly than improvements to other property types due to the highly specialized nature of the properties, and life science tenants typically require greater lease square footage relative to medical office tenants, repositioning efforts would have a disproportionate adverse effect on our life science segment performance. see if we must replace any of our tenants or operators, we may have difficulty identifying replacements and we may be required to incur substantial renovation costs to make certain of our healthcare properties suitable for other tenants and operators. it is common for businesses in the life science industry to undergo mergers or consolidations. future mergers or consolidations of life science entities could reduce the amount of rentable square footage requirements of our client tenants and prospective client tenants, which may adversely impact our revenues from lease payments and results of operations. our tenants in the life science industry face high levels of regulation, funding requirements, expense and uncertainty. life science tenants, particularly those involved in developing and marketing pharmaceutical products, are subject to certain unique risks, including the following: some of our tenants require significant funding for the research, development, clinical testing, manufacture and commercialization of their products and technologies, as well as to fund their obligations, including rent payments due to us. if venture capital firms, private investors, the public markets, companies in the life science industry, the government or other sources of funding are difficult to obtain or unavailable to support such activities, including as a result of general economic conditions, adverse market conditions or government shutdowns that limit our tenants' ability to raise capital, a tenant's business would be adversely affected or fail; our tenants' ability to raise capital depends on the viability of their products and technologies, their financial and operating condition and outlook, and the overall financial, banking and economic environment; the research, development, clinical testing, manufacture and marketing of some of our tenants' products require federal, state and foreign regulatory approvals which may be costly or difficult to obtain, may take several years and be subject to delay, may not be obtained at all, require validation through clinical trials and the use of substantial resources, and may often be unpredictable; even after a life science tenant gains regulatory approval and market acceptance, the product may still present significant regulatory and liability risks, including, among others, the possible later discovery of safety concerns and other defects and potential loss of approvals, competition from new products and the expiration of patent protection for the product; our tenants with marketable products may be adversely affected by healthcare reform and the reimbursement policies of government or private healthcare payors; our tenants with marketable products may be unable to successfully manufacture their drugs economically; 16 table of contents our tenants depend on the commercial success of certain products, which may be reliant on the efficacy of the product, as well as acceptance among doctors and patients; negative publicity or negative results or safety signals from the clinical trials of competitors may reduce demand or prompt regulatory actions; and our tenants may be unable to adapt to the rapid technological advances in the industry and to adequately protect their intellectual property under patent, copyright or trade secret laws and defend against third-party claims of intellectual property violations. if our tenants' businesses are adversely affected, they may fail to make their rent payments to us, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. the hospitals on whose campuses our mobs are located and their affiliated healthcare systems could fail to remain competitive or financially viable, which could adversely impact their ability to attract physicians and physician groups to our mobs and our other properties that serve the healthcare industry. our mobs and other properties that serve the healthcare industry depend on the viability of the hospitals on whose campuses our mobs are located and their affiliated healthcare systems in order to attract physicians and other healthcare-related users. the viability of these hospitals, in turn, depends on factors such as the quality and mix of healthcare services provided, competition, demographic trends in the surrounding community, market position and growth potential, as well as the ability of the affiliated healthcare systems to provide economies of scale and access to capital. if a hospital whose campus is located on or near one of our mobs is unable to meet its financial obligations, and if an affiliated healthcare system is unable to support that hospital, the hospital may not be able to compete successfully or could be forced to close or relocate, which could adversely impact its ability to attract physicians and other healthcare-related users. because we rely on our proximity to and affiliations with these hospitals to create tenant demand for space in our mobs, their inability to remain competitive or financially viable, or to attract physicians and physician groups, could adversely affect our mob operations and have a materially adverse effect on us. in addition, changes to or replacement of the affordable care act and related regulations could result in significant changes to the scope of insurance coverage and reimbursement policies, which could put negative pressure on the operations and revenues of our mobs. we may be unable to maintain or expand our relationships with our existing and future hospital and health system clients. the success of our medical office portfolio depends, to a large extent, on past, current and future relationships with hospitals and their affiliated health systems. we invest significant amounts of time in developing relationships with both new and existing clients. if we fail to maintain these relationships, including through a lack of responsiveness, failure to adapt to the current market or employment of individuals with adequate experience, our reputation and relationships will be harmed and we may lose business to competitors. if our relationships with hospitals and their affiliated health systems deteriorate, it could have a materially adverse effect on us. economic and other conditions that negatively affect geographic areas from which a greater percentage of our revenue is recognized could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. for the year ended december 31, 2018 , 26% of our revenue was derived from properties located in california, which is also where most of our life science portfolio is located. as a result, we are subject to increased exposure to adverse conditions affecting california, including downturns in local economies, changes in local real estate conditions, increased competition or decreased demand, changes in state-specific legislation and local climate events and natural disasters (such as earthquakes, flooding, wildfires and hurricanes), which could cause significant disruption in our businesses in the region, harm our ability to compete effectively, result in increased costs and divert more management attention, any or all of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. we may experience uninsured or underinsured losses, which could result in a significant loss of the capital invested in a property, lower than expected future revenues or unanticipated expense. we maintain and regularly review the comprehensive insurance coverage on our properties with terms, conditions, limits and deductibles that we believe are adequate and appropriate given the relative risk and costs of such coverage. however, a large number of our properties are located in areas exposed to earthquake, windstorm, flood and other natural disasters. in particular, a significant portion of our life science development projects and approximately 90% of our existing life science portfolio (based on gross asset value) is concentrated in california, which is known to be subject to earthquakes, wildfires and other natural disasters. while we purchase insurance coverage for earthquake, fire, windstorm, flood and other natural disasters that we believe is adequate in light of current industry practice and analyses prepared by outside consultants, such insurance may not fully cover such losses. these losses can result in decreased anticipated revenues from a property and the loss of all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property. following these events, we may remain liable for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related 17 table of contents to the property. the insurance market for such exposures can be very volatile, and we may be unable to purchase the limits and terms we desire on a commercially reasonable basis. in addition, there are certain exposures for which we do not purchase insurance because we do not believe it is economically feasible to do so or where there is no viable insurance market. we maintain earthquake insurance for our properties that are located in the vicinity of active earthquake zones in amounts and with deductibles we believe are commercially reasonable. because of our significant concentration in the seismically active regions of south san francisco, california and san diego, california, a damaging earthquake in these areas could significantly impact multiple properties, which may amount to a significant portion of our life science portfolio. as a result, aggregate deductible amounts may be material, and our insurance coverage may be materially insufficient to cover our losses, either of which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if one of our properties experiences a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds policy coverage limits, we could lose our investment in the damaged property as well as the anticipated future cash flows from such property. if the damaged property is subject to recourse indebtedness, we could continue to be liable for the indebtedness even if the property is irreparably damaged. in addition, even if damage to our properties is covered by insurance, a disruption of business caused by a casualty event may result in loss of revenues for us. any business interruption insurance may not fully compensate the lender or us for such loss of revenue. our use of joint ventures may limit our flexibility with jointly owned investments. we have and may continue to develop and/or acquire properties in joint ventures with other persons or entities when circumstances warrant the use of these structures. our participation in joint ventures is subject to risks that may not be present with other methods of ownership, including: our joint venture partners could have investment and financing goals that are not consistent with our objectives, including the timing, terms and strategies for any investments, and what levels of debt to incur or carry; we could experience an impasse on certain decisions because we do not have sole decision-making authority, which could require us to expend additional resources on resolving such impasses or potential disputes, including litigation or arbitration; our joint venture partners may have competing interests in our markets that could create conflict of interest issues; our ability to transfer our interest in a joint venture to a third party may be restricted and the market for our interest may be limited and/or valued lower than fair market value; our joint venture partners may be structured differently than us for tax purposes, and this could create conflicts of interest and risks to our reit status; and our joint venture partners might become insolvent, fail to fund their share of required capital contributions or fail to fulfill their obligations as a joint venture partner, which may require us to infuse our own capital into the venture on behalf of the partner despite other competing uses for such capital. for example, with respect to our minority ownership position in our unconsolidated ccrc joint venture with brookdale, we are limited in our ability to control or influence operations, and in our ability to exit or transfer our interest in the joint venture to a third party. as a result, we may not receive full value for our ownership interest if we tried to sell it to a third party. in addition, in some instances, we and/or our joint venture partner will have the right to cause us to sell our interest, or acquire our partner's interest, at a time when we otherwise would not have initiated such a transaction. our ability to acquire our partner's interest will be limited if we do not have sufficient cash, available borrowing capacity or other capital resources. this would require us to sell our interest in the joint venture when we would otherwise prefer to retain it. any of the foregoing risks could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we have now, and may have in the future, contingent rent provisions and/or rent escalators based on the consumer price index, which could hinder our profitability and growth. we derive a significant portion of our revenues from leasing properties pursuant to leases that generally provide for fixed rental rates, subject to annual escalations. under certain leases, a portion of the tenant's rental payment to us is based on the property's revenues (i.e., contingent rent). if, as a result of weak economic conditions or other factors, the property's revenue declines, our rental revenues would decrease and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. additionally, some of our leases provide that annual rent escalates based on changes in the consumer price index or other thresholds (i.e., contingent rent escalators). if the consumer price index does not increase or other applicable thresholds are not met, rental rates may not increase and our growth and profitability may be hindered. furthermore, if strong economic conditions result in significant increases in 18 table of contents the consumer price index, but the escalations under our leases with contingent rent escalators are capped, our growth and profitability also may be limited. competition may make it difficult to identify and purchase, or develop, suitable healthcare properties to grow our investment portfolio, to finance acquisitions on favorable terms, or to retain or attract tenants and operators. we face significant competition from other reits, investment companies, private equity and hedge fund investors, sovereign funds, healthcare operators, lenders, developers and other institutional investors, some of whom may have greater resources and lower costs of capital than we do. increased competition makes it more challenging for us to identify and successfully capitalize on opportunities that meet our business goals and could improve the bargaining power of property owners seeking to sell, thereby impeding our investment, acquisition and development activities. similarly, our properties face competition for tenants and operators from other properties in the same market, which may affect our ability to attract and retain tenants and operators, or may reduce the rents we are able to charge. if we cannot capitalize on our development pipeline, identify and purchase a sufficient quantity of healthcare properties at favorable prices, finance acquisitions on commercially favorable terms, or attract and retain profitable tenants and operators, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. from time to time we have made, and we may seek to make, one or more material acquisitions, which may involve the expenditure of significant funds. we regularly review potential transactions in order to maximize stockholder value. our review process may require significant management attention and a potential transaction could be abandoned or rejected by us or the other parties involved after we expend significant resources and time. in addition, future acquisitions may require the issuance of securities, the incurrence of debt, assumption of contingent liabilities or incurrence of significant expenditures, each of which could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, the financing required for acquisitions may not be available on commercially favorable terms or at all. from time to time, we may acquire other companies, and if we are unable to successfully integrate these operations, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. acquisitions require the integration of companies that have previously operated independently. successful integration of the operations of these companies depends primarily on our ability to consolidate operations, systems, procedures, properties and personnel, and to eliminate redundancies and costs. we may encounter difficulties in these integrations. potential difficulties associated with acquisitions include our ability to effectively monitor and manage our expanded portfolio of properties, the loss of key employees, the disruption of our ongoing business or that of the acquired entity, possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, and the assumption of unexpected liabilities, including: liabilities relating to the cleanup or remediation of undisclosed environmental conditions; unasserted claims of vendors, residents, patients or other persons dealing with the seller; liabilities, claims and litigation, whether or not incurred in the ordinary course of business, relating to periods prior to our acquisition; claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the seller; claims for return of government reimbursement payments; and liabilities for taxes relating to periods prior to our acquisition. in addition, the acquired companies and their properties may fail to perform as expected, including in respect of estimated cost savings. inaccurate assumptions regarding future rental or occupancy rates could result in overly optimistic estimates of future revenues. similarly, we may underestimate future operating expenses or the costs necessary to bring properties up to standards established for their intended use or for property improvements. if we have difficulties with any of these areas, or if we later discover additional liabilities or experience unforeseen costs relating to our acquired companies, we might not achieve the economic benefits we expect from our acquisitions, and this may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. our tenants, operators and borrowers face litigation and may experience rising liability and insurance costs. in some states, advocacy groups have been created to monitor the quality of care at healthcare properties, and these groups have brought litigation against the tenants and operators of such properties. also, in several instances, private litigation by patients, 19 table of contents residents or whistleblowers has sought, and sometimes resulted in, large damage awards. see risks related to our business and operations the requirements of, or changes to, governmental reimbursement programs such as medicare or medicaid, may adversely affect our tenants', operators' and borrowers' ability to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us. the effect of this litigation and other potential litigation may materially increase the costs incurred by our tenants, operators and borrowers for monitoring and reporting quality of care compliance, which under a ridea structure would be borne by us. in addition, their cost of liability and medical malpractice insurance can be significant and may increase or not be available at a reasonable cost. cost increases could cause our tenants and borrowers to be unable to make their lease or mortgage payments or fail to purchase the appropriate liability and malpractice insurance, or cause our borrowers to be unable to meet their obligations to us, potentially decreasing our revenues and increasing our collection and litigation costs. furthermore, with respect to our senior housing properties operated in ridea structures, we directly bear the costs of any such increases in litigation, monitoring, reporting and insurance due to our direct exposure to the cash flows of such properties. in addition, as a result of our ownership of healthcare properties, we may be named as a defendant in lawsuits arising from the alleged actions of our tenants or operators. with respect to our triple-net leases, our tenants generally have agreed to indemnify us for various claims, litigation and liabilities in connection with their leasing and operation of our triple-net leased properties. with respect to our ridea structured properties, we are responsible for these claims, litigation and liabilities, with limited indemnification rights against our operator typically based on the gross negligence or willful misconduct by the operator. although our leases provide us with certain information rights with respect to our tenants, one or more of our tenants may be or become party to pending litigation or investigation to which we are unaware or do not have a right to participate or evaluate. in such cases, we would be unable to determine the potential impact of such litigation or investigation on our tenants or our business or results. moreover, negative publicity of any of our operators' or tenants' litigation, other legal proceedings or investigations may also negatively impact their and our reputation, resulting in lower customer demand and revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. required regulatory approvals can delay or prohibit transfers of our healthcare properties. transfers of healthcare properties to successor tenants or operators are typically subject to regulatory approvals or ratifications, including, but not limited to, change of ownership approvals and medicare and medicaid provider arrangements that are not required for transfers of other types of commercial operations and other types of real estate. the replacement of any tenant or operator could be delayed by the regulatory approval process of any federal, state or local government agency necessary for the transfer of the property or the replacement of the operator licensed to manage the property, during which time the property may experience performance declines. if we are unable to find a suitable replacement tenant or operator upon favorable terms, or at all, we may take possession of a property, which could expose us to successor liability, require us to indemnify subsequent operators to whom we transfer the operating rights and licenses, or require us to spend substantial time and funds to preserve the value of the property and adapt the property to other uses, all of which may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. compliance with the americans with disabilities act and fire, safety and other regulations may require us to make expenditures that adversely affect our cash flows. our properties must comply with applicable ada and any similar state and local laws. this may require removal of barriers to access by persons with disabilities in public areas of our properties. noncompliance could result in the incurrence of additional costs associated with bringing the properties into compliance, the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants in individual lawsuits or as part of a class action. while the tenants to whom we lease our properties are obligated to comply with the ada and similar state and local provisions, and typically under tenant leases are obligated to cover costs associated with compliance, if required changes involve greater expenditures than anticipated, or if the changes must be made on a more accelerated basis than anticipated, the ability of these tenants to cover costs could be adversely affected. as a result, we could be required to expend funds to comply with the provisions of the ada and similar state and local laws on behalf of tenants, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. additionally, with respect to our shop properties managed in ridea structures, we are ultimately responsible for such litigation and compliance costs due to our direct exposure to the cash flows of the properties. in addition, we are required to operate our properties in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations. new and revised regulations and codes may be adopted by governmental agencies and bodies and become applicable to our properties. for example, new safety laws for senior housing properties were adopted following the particularly damaging 2018 hurricane season. compliance could require substantial capital expenditures, and may restrict our ability to renovate our properties. these expenditures and restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and cash flows. 20 table of contents the requirements of, or changes to, governmental reimbursement programs such as medicare or medicaid, may adversely affect our tenants', operators' and borrowers' ability to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us. certain of our tenants, operators and borrowers are affected, directly or indirectly, by an extremely complex set of federal, state and local laws and regulations pertaining to governmental reimbursement programs. these laws and regulations are subject to frequent and substantial changes that are sometimes applied retroactively. see item 1 business government regulation, licensing and enforcement. for example, to the extent that our tenants, operators or borrowers receive a significant portion of their revenues from governmental payors, primarily medicare and medicaid, they are generally subject to, among other things: statutory and regulatory changes; retroactive rate adjustments; recovery of program overpayments or set-offs; federal, state and local litigation and enforcement actions; administrative proceedings; policy interpretations; payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries or carriers; government funding restrictions (at a program level or with respect to specific properties); interruption or delays in payments due to any ongoing governmental investigations and audits at such properties; reputational harm of publicly disclosed enforcement actions, audits or investigations related to billing and reimbursements. the failure to comply with the extensive laws, regulations and other requirements applicable to their business and the operation of our properties could result in, among other challenges: (i) becoming ineligible to receive reimbursement from governmental reimbursement programs; (ii) becoming subject to prepayment reviews or claims for overpayments; (iii) bans on admissions of new patients or residents; (iv) civil or criminal penalties; and (v) significant operational changes, including requirements to increase staffing or the scope of care given to residents. these laws and regulations are enforced by a variety of federal, state and local agencies and can also be enforced by private litigants through, among other things, federal and state false claims acts, which allow private litigants to bring qui tam or whistleblower actions. our tenants, operators and borrowers could be adversely affected by the resources required to respond to an investigation or other enforcement action. in such event, the results of operations and financial condition of our tenants and the results of operations of our properties operated by those entities could be materially adversely affected, which, in turn, could have a materially adverse effect on us. we are unable to predict future federal, state and local regulations and legislation, including the medicare and medicaid statutes and regulations, or the intensity of enforcement efforts with respect to such regulations and legislation. any changes in the regulatory framework could have a materially adverse effect on our tenants and operators. if, in turn, such tenants or operators fail to make contractual rent payments to us or, with respect to our shop segment, cash flows are adversely affected, it could have a materially adverse effect on us. sometimes, governmental payors freeze or reduce payments to healthcare providers, or provide annual reimbursement rate increases that are smaller than expected, due to budgetary and other pressures. healthcare reimbursement will likely continue to be of significant importance to federal and state authorities. we cannot make any assessment as to the ultimate timing or the effect that any future legislative reforms may have on our tenants', operators' and borrowers' costs of doing business and on the amount of reimbursement by government and other third-party payors. the failure of any of our tenants, operators or borrowers to comply with these laws and regulations, and significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees, could materially adversely affect their ability to meet their financial and contractual obligations to us. furthermore, executive orders and legislation may amend or repeal the affordable care act and related regulations in whole or in part. a federal court in texas recently declared the affordable care act's individual mandate unconstitutional and the remaining provisions non-severable from the mandate, thus making them invalid ( texas v. united states , case 4:18-cv-00167-1, slip opinion (n.d. tex. dec. 14, 2018). the decision has been stayed pending appeal. we also anticipate that congress, state legislatures, and third-party payors may continue to review and assess alternative healthcare delivery and payment systems and may propose and adopt legislation or policy changes or implementations effecting additional fundamental changes in the healthcare system. for example, the department of health and human services has focused on tying medicare payments to quality or value through 21 table of contents alternative payment models, which generally aim to make providers attentive to the total costs of treatments. additionally, the centers for medicare and medicaid services recently finalized a new patient driven payment model, which, effective october 1, 2019, will be used to calculate reimbursement rates for patients in skilled nursing properties. we cannot quantify or predict the likely impact of these changes on the revenues and profitability of our tenants, operators and borrowers. however, if any such changes significantly and adversely affect our tenants' profitability, they could in turn negatively affect our tenants' ability and willingness to comply with the terms of their leases with us and/or renew their leases with us upon expiration, which could impact our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations. legislation to address federal government operations and administration decisions affecting the centers for medicare and medicaid services could have a materially adverse effect on our tenants', operators' and borrowers' liquidity, financial condition or results of operations. congressional consideration of legislation pertaining to the federal debt ceiling, the affordable care act, tax reform and entitlement programs, including reimbursement rates for physicians, could have a materially adverse effect on our tenants', operators' and borrowers' liquidity, financial condition or results of operations. in particular, reduced funding for entitlement programs such as medicare and medicaid would result in increased costs and fees for programs such as medicare advantage plans and additional reductions in reimbursements to providers. amendments to or repeal of the affordable care act in whole or in part and decisions by the centers for medicare and medicaid services could impact the delivery of services and benefits under medicare, medicaid or medicare advantage plans and could affect our tenants and operators and the manner in which they are reimbursed by such programs. such changes could have a materially adverse effect on our tenants', operators' and borrowers' liquidity, financial condition or results of operations, which could adversely affect their ability to satisfy their obligations to us and could have a materially adverse effect on us. we may be unable to successfully foreclose on the collateral securing our real estate-related loans, and even if we are successful in our foreclosure efforts, we may be unable to successfully operate, occupy or reposition the underlying real estate, which may adversely affect our ability to recover our investments. if a tenant or operator defaults under one of our mortgages or mezzanine loans, we may have to foreclose on the loan or protect our interest by acquiring title to the collateral and thereafter making substantial improvements or repairs in order to maximize the property's investment potential. in some cases, the collateral consists of the equity interests in an entity that directly or indirectly owns the applicable real property or interests in operating properties and, accordingly, we may not have full recourse to assets of that entity, or that entity may have incurred unexpected liabilities. tenants, operators or borrowers may contest enforcement of foreclosure or other remedies, seek bankruptcy protection against our exercise of enforcement or other remedies and/or bring claims for lender liability in response to actions to enforce mortgage obligations. foreclosure-related costs, high loan-to-value ratios or declines in the value of the property may prevent us from realizing an amount equal to our mortgage or mezzanine loan upon foreclosure, and we may be required to record a valuation allowance for such losses. even if we are able to successfully foreclose on the collateral securing our real estate-related loans, we may inherit properties for which we may be unable to expeditiously secure tenants or operators, if at all, or we may acquire equity interests that we are unable to immediately resell due to limitations under the securities laws, either of which would adversely affect our ability to fully recover our investment. risks related to our capital structure and market conditions changes or increases in interest rates could result in a decrease in our stock price and increased interest costs on new debt and existing variable rate debt, which could materially adversely impact our ability to refinance existing debt, sell properties and conduct acquisition, investment and development activities. an increase in interest rates could reduce the amount investors are willing to pay for our common stock. because reit stocks are often perceived as high-yield investments, investors may perceive less relative benefit to owning reit stocks as interest rates and the yield on government treasuries and other bonds increase. additionally, we have existing debt obligations that are variable rate obligations with interest and related payments that vary with the movement of certain indices. if interest rates increase, so would our interest costs for any variable rate debt and for new debt. this increased cost would make the financing of any acquisition and development activity more costly. in addition, an increase in interest rates could decrease the amount third parties are willing to pay for our properties, thereby limiting our ability to reposition our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. rising interest rates could limit our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures, or cause us to pay higher interest rates upon refinancing and increase interest expense on refinanced indebtedness. for example, we have $800 million of senior notes that are maturing in 2020 on which we pay 2.625% interest, which is lower than prevailing interest rates throughout 2018. if interest rates 22 table of contents remain higher than the interest rates of our senior notes reaching maturity, we will incur additional interest expense upon any replacement debt. we manage a portion of our exposure to interest rate risk by accessing debt with staggered maturities and through the use of derivative instruments, primarily interest rate swap agreements. however, no amount of hedging activity can fully insulate us from the risks associated with changes in interest rates. swap agreements involve risk, including that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes, that the amount of income we earn from hedging transactions may be limited by federal tax provisions governing reits and that these arrangements may cause us to pay higher interest rates on our debt obligations than would otherwise be the case. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate risk could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. cash available for distribution to stockholders may be insufficient to make dividend distributions at expected levels and are made at the discretion of our board of directors. if cash available for distribution generated by our properties decreases as a result of our announced dispositions or otherwise, we may be unable to make dividend distributions at expected levels. our inability to make expected distributions would likely result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. all distributions are made at the discretion of our board of directors in accordance with maryland law and depend on our earnings, our financial condition, debt and equity capital available to us, our expectations of our future capital requirements and operating performance, restrictive covenants in our financial or other contractual arrangements (including those in our credit facility agreement), maintenance of our reit qualification, restrictions under maryland law and other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant from time to time. additionally, our ability to make distributions will be adversely affected if any of the risks described herein, or other significant adverse events, occur. we rely on external sources of capital to fund future capital needs, and if access to such capital is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, it could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to meet commitments as they become due or make future investments necessary to grow our business. we may not be able to fund all future capital needs, including capital expenditures, debt maturities and other commitments, from cash retained from operations and dispositions. if we are unable to obtain enough internal capital, we may need to rely on external sources of capital (including debt and equity financing) to fulfill our capital requirements. our access to capital depends upon a number of factors, some of which we have little or no control over, including but not limited to: general availability of capital, including less favorable terms, rising interest rates and increased borrowing costs; the market price of the shares of our equity securities and the credit ratings of our debt and any preferred securities we may issue; the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions; our degree of financial leverage and operational flexibility; the financial integrity of our lenders, which might impair their ability to meet their commitments to us or their willingness to make additional loans to us, and our inability to replace the financing commitment of any such lender on favorable terms, or at all; the stability of the market value of our properties; the financial performance and general market perception of our tenants and operators; changes in the credit ratings on u.s. government debt securities or default or delay in payment by the united states of its obligations; issues facing the healthcare industry, including, but not limited to, healthcare reform and changes in government reimbursement policies; and the performance of the national and global economies generally. if access to capital is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, it could have a materially adverse impact on our ability to fund operations, repay or refinance our debt obligations, fund dividend payments, acquire properties and make the investments needed to grow our business. 23 table of contents adverse changes in our credit ratings could impair our ability to obtain additional debt and equity financing on favorable terms, if at all, and negatively impact the market price of our securities, including our common stock. our credit ratings can affect the amount and type of capital we can access, as well as the terms of any financing we may obtain. the credit ratings of our senior unsecured debt are based on, among other things, our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position, level of indebtedness and pending or future changes in the regulatory framework applicable to our operators and our industry. we may be unable to maintain our current credit ratings, and in the event that our current credit ratings deteriorate, we would likely incur higher borrowing costs, which would make it more difficult or expensive to obtain additional financing or refinance existing obligations and commitments. also, a downgrade in our credit ratings would trigger additional costs or other potentially negative consequences under our current and future credit facilities and debt instruments. our level of indebtedness may increase and materially adversely affect our future operations. our outstanding indebtedness as of december 31, 2018 was approximately $5.6 billion . we may incur additional indebtedness, including in connection with the development or acquisition of properties, which may be substantial. any significant additional indebtedness would likely negatively affect the credit ratings of our debt and require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to interest and principal payments due on our indebtedness. greater demands on our cash resources may reduce funds available to us to pay dividends, conduct development activities, make capital expenditures and acquisitions or carry out other aspects of our business strategy. increased indebtedness can also make us more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions and create competitive disadvantages for us compared to other companies with relatively lower debt levels. increased future debt service obligations may limit our operational flexibility, including our ability to finance or refinance our properties, contribute properties to joint ventures or sell properties as needed. covenants in our debt instruments limit our operational flexibility, and breaches of these covenants could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. the terms of our current secured and unsecured debt instruments and other indebtedness that we may incur, require or will require us to comply with a number of customary financial and other covenants, such as maintaining leverage ratios, minimum tangible net worth requirements, reit status and certain levels of debt service coverage. our continued ability to incur additional debt and to conduct business in general is subject to compliance with these financial and other covenants, which limit our operational flexibility. for example, mortgages on our properties contain customary covenants such as those that limit or restrict our ability, without the consent of the lender, to further encumber or sell the applicable properties, or to replace the applicable tenant or operator. breaches of certain covenants may result in defaults under the mortgages on our properties and cross-defaults under certain of our other indebtedness, even if we satisfy our payment obligations to the respective obligee. covenants that limit our operational flexibility as well as defaults resulting from the breach of any of these covenants could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. volatility, disruption or uncertainty in the financial markets may impair our ability to raise capital, obtain new financing or refinance existing obligations and fund real estate and development activities. we may be affected by general market and economic conditions. increased or prolonged market disruption, volatility or uncertainty could materially adversely impact our ability to raise capital, obtain new financing or refinance our existing obligations as they mature and fund real estate and development activities. market volatility could also lead to significant uncertainty in the valuation of our investments and those of our joint ventures, which may result in a substantial decrease in the value of our properties and those of our joint ventures. as a result, we may be unable to recover the carrying amount of such investments and the associated goodwill, if any, which may require us to recognize impairment charges in earnings. we may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. we have certain investments in international markets where the u.s. dollar is not the denominated currency. the ownership of investments located outside of the united states subjects us to risk from fluctuations in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the u.s. dollar. a significant change in the value of the british pound sterling ( gbp ) may have a materially adverse effect on our financial position, debt covenant ratios, results of operations and cash flow. we may attempt to manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes through the use of derivative contracts or other methods. for example, we currently utilize gbp denominated liabilities as a natural hedge against our gbp denominated assets. additionally, we executed currency swap contracts to hedge the risk related to a portion of the forecasted interest receipts on these investments. however, no amount of hedging activity can fully insulate us from the risks associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates, and the failure to hedge effectively against foreign currency exchange rate risk, if we choose to engage in such activities, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, any international 24 table of contents currency gain recognized with respect to changes in exchange rates may not qualify under the 75% gross income test or the 95% gross income test that we must satisfy annually in order to qualify and maintain our status as a reit. risk related to other events we rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our business. we rely on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes, including financial transactions and records, and maintaining personal identifying information and tenant and lease data. we purchase some of our information technology from vendors, on whom our systems depend. we rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for the processing, transmission and storage of confidential tenant and customer data, including individually identifiable information relating to financial accounts. although we have taken steps to protect the security of our information systems and the data maintained in those systems, it is possible that our safety and security measures will not prevent the systems' improper functioning or damage, or the improper access or disclosure of personally identifiable information such as in the event of cyber-attacks. the risk of security breaches has generally increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attacks and intrusions have increased. in addition, the pace and unpredictability of cyber threats generally quickly renders long-term implementation plans designed to address cybersecurity risks obsolete. because our operators also rely on information technology networks, systems and software, we may be exposed to cyber-attacks on our operators. security breaches of our or our operators' networks and systems, including those caused by physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, malware, worms, attacks by hackers or foreign governments, disruptions from unauthorized access and tampering, including through social engineering such as phishing attacks, coordinated denial-of-service attacks and similar breaches, could result in, among other things, system disruptions, shutdowns, unauthorized access to or disclosure of confidential information, misappropriation of our or our business partners' proprietary or confidential information, breach of our legal, regulatory or contractual obligations, inability to access or rely upon critical business records or systems or other delays in our operations. in some cases, it may be difficult to anticipate or immediately detect such incidents and the damage they cause. we may be required to expend significant financial resources to protect against or to remediate such security breaches. in addition, our technology infrastructure and information systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss and telecommunications failures. any failure to maintain proper function, security and availability of our and our operators' information systems and the data maintained in those systems could interrupt our operations, damage our reputation, subject us to liability claims or regulatory penalties, harm our business relationships or increase our security and insurance costs, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to certain provisions of maryland law and our charter relating to business combinations which may prevent a transaction that may otherwise be in the interest of our stockholders. the maryland business combination act provides that unless exempted, a maryland corporation may not engage in business combinations, including a merger, consolidation, share exchange or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities with an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder became an interested stockholder, and thereafter unless specified criteria are met. an interested stockholder is generally a person owning or controlling, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting power of the outstanding voting stock of a maryland corporation. unless our board of directors takes action to exempt us, generally or with respect to certain transactions, from this statute, the maryland business combination act will be applicable to business combinations between us and other persons. in addition to the restrictions on business combinations contained in the maryland business combination act, our charter also contains restrictions on business combinations. our charter requires that, except in certain circumstances, business combinations, including a merger or consolidation, and certain asset transfers and issuances of securities, with a related person, including a beneficial owner of 10% or more of our outstanding voting stock, be approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 90% of our outstanding voting stock. the restrictions on business combinations provided under maryland law and contained in our charter may delay, defer or prevent a change of control or other transaction even if such transaction involves a premium price for our common stock or our stockholders believe that such transaction is otherwise in their best interests. 25 table of contents unfavorable resolution of litigation matters and disputes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. from time to time, we are involved in legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims. we may also be named as defendants in lawsuits arising out of our alleged actions or the alleged actions of our tenants and operators for which such tenants and operators have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless. an unfavorable resolution of any such litigation may have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. regardless of the outcome, litigation or other legal proceedings may result in substantial costs, disruption of our normal business operations and the diversion of management attention. we may be unable to prevail in, or achieve a favorable settlement of, any pending or future legal action against us. see "item 3 legal proceedings" of this annual report on form 10-k. loss of our key personnel could temporarily disrupt our operations and adversely affect us. we depend on the efforts of our executive officers for the success of our business, and competition for these individuals is intense. although they are covered by our executive severance plan and change in control plan, which provide many of the benefits typically found in executive employment agreements, none of our executive officers have employment agreements with us. the loss or limited availability of the services of any of our executive officers, or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel, could, at least temporarily, have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and the value of our common stock. environmental compliance costs and liabilities associated with our real estate-related investments may be substantial and may materially impair the value of those investments. federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations may require us, as a current or previous owner of real estate, to investigate and clean up certain hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum released at a property. we may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage and for investigation and cleanup costs incurred by the third parties in connection with the contamination. the costs of cleanup and remediation could be substantial. in addition, some environmental laws create a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and the costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. although we currently carry environmental insurance on our properties in an amount that we believe is commercially reasonable and generally require our tenants and operators to indemnify us for environmental liabilities they cause, such liabilities could exceed the amount of our insurance, the financial ability of the tenant or operator to indemnify us or the value of the contaminated property. as the owner of a site, we may also be held liable to third parties for damages and injuries resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the site. we may also experience environmental liabilities arising from conditions not known to us. the cost of defending against these claims, complying with environmental regulatory requirements, conducting remediation of any contaminated property, or paying personal injury or other claims or fines could be substantial and could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, the presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may materially adversely affect our ability to use, sell or lease the property or to borrow using the property as collateral. risk related to tax, including reit-related risks loss of our tax status as a reit would substantially reduce our available funds and would have materially adverse consequences for us and the value of our common stock. qualification as a reit involves the application of numerous highly technical and complex provisions of the code, for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations, as well as the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. we intend to continue to operate in a manner that enables us to qualify as a reit. however, our qualification and taxation as a reit depend upon our ability to meet, through actual annual operating results, asset diversification, distribution levels and diversity of stock ownership, the various qualification tests imposed under the code. for example, to qualify as a reit, at least 95% of our gross income in any year must be derived from qualifying sources, and we must make distributions to our stockholders aggregating annually to at least 90% of our reit taxable income, excluding net capital gains. in addition, new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could change the tax laws or interpretations of the tax laws regarding qualification as a reit, or the federal income tax consequences of that qualification, in a manner that is materially adverse to our stockholders. accordingly, there is no assurance that we have operated or will continue to operate in a manner so as to qualify or remain qualified as a reit. if we lose our reit status, we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available to make payments of principal and interest on the debt securities we issue and to make distributions to stockholders. if we fail to qualify as a reit: 26 table of contents we will not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income; we will be subject to corporate-level income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates; we will be subject to increased state and local income taxes; and unless we are entitled to relief under relevant statutory provisions, we will be disqualified from taxation as a reit for the four taxable years following the year during which we fail to qualify as a reit. as a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a reit could also impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital and could materially adversely affect the value of our common stock. recent changes to the u.s. tax laws could have a significant negative impact on the overall economy, our tenants, and our business. on december 20, 2017, the house of representatives and the senate passed a tax reform bill, which was signed into law on december 22, 2017 (the tax reform legislation ). among other things, the tax reform legislation: restricted the deductibility of interest expense by businesses (generally, to 30% of the business' adjusted taxable income) except, among others, real property businesses electing out of such restriction; generally, we expect our business to qualify as a real property business, but businesses conducted by our taxable reit subsidiaries may not qualify; required real property businesses to use the less favorable alternative depreciation system to depreciate real property in the event businesses elect to avoid the interest deduction restriction above; restricted the benefits of like-kind exchanges that defer capital gains for tax purposes to exchanges of real property; and generally allowed a deduction for individuals equal to 20% of certain income from pass-through entities, including ordinary dividends distributed by a reit (excluding capital gain dividends and qualified dividend income). many of the provisions in the tax reform legislation expire at the end of 2025. the tax reform legislation was a far-reaching and complex revision to the existing u.s. federal income tax laws with disparate and, in some cases, countervailing impacts on different categories of taxpayers and industries and will require subsequent rulemaking and interpretation in a number of areas. as a result, we cannot predict the long-term impact of the tax reform legislation on the overall economy, government revenues, our tenants, us, and the real estate industry. furthermore, the tax reform legislation may negatively impact certain of our tenants' operating results, financial condition, and future business plans. this in turn could negatively impact our operating results, financial condition, and operations. further changes to u.s. federal income tax laws could materially and adversely affect us and our stockholders. the present federal income tax treatment of reits may be modified, possibly with retroactive effect, by legislative, judicial or administrative action at any time, which could affect the federal income tax treatment of an investment in us. the federal income tax rules dealing with u.s. federal income taxation and reits are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process, the u.s. internal revenue service (the irs ) and the u.s. treasury department, which results in statutory changes as well as frequent revisions to regulations and interpretations. we cannot predict how changes in the tax laws might affect our investors or us. revisions in federal tax laws and interpretations thereof could significantly and negatively affect our ability to qualify as a reit, as well as the tax considerations relevant to an investment in us, or could cause us to change our investments and commitments. we could have potential deferred and contingent tax liabilities from corporate acquisitions that could limit, delay or impede future sales of our properties. if, during the five-year period beginning on the date we acquire certain companies, we recognize a gain on the disposition of any property acquired, then, to the extent of the excess of (i) the fair market value of such property as of the acquisition date over (ii) our adjusted income tax basis in such property as of that date, we will be required to pay a corporate-level federal income tax on this gain at the highest regular corporate rate. there can be no assurance that these triggering dispositions will not occur, and these requirements could limit, delay or impede future sales of our properties. in addition, the irs may assert liabilities against us for corporate income taxes for taxable years prior to the time that we acquire certain companies, in which case we will owe these taxes plus interest and penalties, if any. 27 table of contents there are uncertainties relating to the calculation of non-reit tax earnings and profits ( e&amp;p ) in certain acquisitions, which may require us to distribute e&amp;p. in order to remain qualified as a reit, we are required to distribute to our stockholders all of the accumulated non-reit e&amp;p of certain companies that we acquire, prior to the close of the first taxable year in which the acquisition occurs. failure to make such e&amp;p distributions would result in our disqualification as a reit. the determination of the amount to be distributed in such e&amp;p distributions is a complex factual and legal determination. we may have less than complete information at the time we undertake our analysis, or we may interpret the applicable law differently from the irs. we currently believe that we have satisfied the requirements relating to such e&amp;p distributions. there are, however, substantial uncertainties relating to the determination of e&amp;p, including the possibility that the irs could successfully assert that the taxable income of the companies acquired should be increased, which would increase our non-reit e&amp;p. moreover, an audit of the acquired company following our acquisition could result in an increase in accumulated non-reit e&amp;p, which could require us to pay an additional taxable distribution to our then-existing stockholders, if we qualify under rules for curing this type of default, or could result in our disqualification as a reit. thus, we might fail to satisfy the requirement that we distribute all of our non-reit e&amp;p by the close of the first taxable year in which the acquisition occurs. moreover, although there are procedures available to cure a failure to distribute all of our e&amp;p, we cannot now determine whether we will be able to take advantage of these procedures or the economic impact on us of doing so. our international investments and operations may result in additional tax-related risks. we own a 49% noncontrolling interest in a joint venture that owns senior housing properties in the u.k. although we expect to sell our remaining 49% interest in the joint venture by no later than 2020, we currently remain exposed to risks associated with international investments and operations, including tax-related risks, which are different from those we face with respect to our domestic properties and operations. these risks include, but are not limited to: international currency gain recognized as a result of changes in exchange rates may in certain circumstances be treated as income that does not qualify under the 75% gross income test or the 95% gross income test that we must satisfy annually in order to qualify and maintain our status as a reit; challenges with respect to the repatriation of foreign earnings and cash; and challenges of complying with foreign tax rules (including the possible revisions in tax treaties or other laws and regulations, including those governing the taxation of our international income). our charter contains ownership limits with respect to our common stock and other classes of capital stock. our charter contains restrictions on the ownership and transfer of our common stock and preferred stock that are intended to assist us in preserving our qualification as a reit. under our charter, subject to certain exceptions, no person or entity may own, actually or constructively, more than 9.8% (by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the outstanding shares of our common stock or any class or series of our preferred stock. additionally, our charter has a 9.9% ownership limitation on the direct or indirect ownership of our voting shares, which may include common stock or other classes of capital stock. our board of directors, in its sole discretion, may exempt a proposed transferee from either ownership limit. the ownership limits may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 65 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to various market risks, including the potential loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, specifically gbp. we use derivative and other financial instruments in the normal course of business to mitigate interest rate and foreign currency risk. we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. derivatives are recorded on the consolidated balance sheets at fair value (see note 22 to the consolidated financial statements). to illustrate the effect of movements in the interest rate markets, we performed a market sensitivity analysis on our hedging instruments. we applied various basis point spreads to the underlying interest rate curves of the hedging portfolio in order to determine the change in fair value. assuming a one percentage point change in the underlying interest rate curve, the estimated change in fair value of each of the underlying hedging instruments would not exceed $1 million . interest rate risk at december 31, 2018 , we are exposed to market risks related to fluctuations in interest rates primarily on variable rate debt. as of december 31, 2018 , $43 million of our variable-rate debt was hedged by interest rate swap transactions. the interest rate swaps are designated as cash flow hedges, with the objective of managing the exposure to interest rate risk by converting the interest rates on our variable-rate debt to fixed interest rates. interest rate fluctuations will generally not affect our future earnings or cash flows on our fixed rate debt and assets until their maturity or earlier prepayment and refinancing. if interest rates have risen at the time we seek to refinance our fixed rate debt, whether at maturity or otherwise, our future earnings and cash flows could be adversely affected by additional borrowing costs. conversely, lower interest rates at the time of refinancing may reduce our overall borrowing costs. however, interest rate changes will affect the fair value of our fixed rate instruments. at december 31, 2018 , a one percentage point increase or decrease in interest rates would change the fair value of our fixed rate debt by approximately $252 million and $272 million , respectively, and would not materially impact earnings or cash flows. additionally, a one percentage point increase or decrease in interest rates would change the fair value of our fixed rate debt investments by approximately $3 million and less than $1 million , respectively, and would not materially impact earnings or cash flows. conversely, changes in interest rates on variable rate debt and investments would change our future earnings and cash flows, but not materially impact the fair value of those instruments. assuming a one percentage point change in the interest rate related to our variable-rate debt and variable-rate investments, and assuming no other changes in the outstanding balance as of december 31, 2018 , our annual interest expense and interest income would change by approximately $1 million and $1 million , respectively. foreign currency exchange rate risk at december 31, 2018 , our exposure to foreign currencies primarily relates to u.k. investments in leased real estate, loans receivable and related gbp denominated cash flows. our foreign currency exposure is partially mitigated through the use of gbp-denominated borrowings. based solely on our operating results for the year ended december 31, 2018 , including the impact of existing hedging arrangements, if the value of the gbp relative to the u.s. dollar were to increase or decrease by 10% compared to the average exchange rate during the year ended december 31, 2018 , the increase or decrease to our cash flows would not be material. market risk we have investments in marketable debt securities classified as held-to-maturity because we have the positive intent and ability to hold the securities to maturity. held-to-maturity securities are recorded at amortized cost and adjusted for the amortization of premiums and discounts through maturity. we consider a variety of factors in evaluating an other-than-temporary decline in value, such as: the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been less than our current adjusted carrying value; the issuer's financial condition, capital strength and near-term prospects; any recent events specific to that issuer and economic conditions of its industry; and our investment horizon in relationship to an anticipated near-term recovery in the market value, if any. at december 31, 2018 , both the fair value and carrying value of marketable debt securities were $19 million . 65 table of contentsrisk factors 11 risk factors the section below discusses the most significant risk factors that may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. as set forth below, we believe that the risks we face generally fall into the following categories: risks related to our business and operations; risks related to our capital structure and market conditions; risks related to other events; and risks related to tax, including reit-related risks. risks related to our business and operations we assume operational risks with respect to our shop properties managed in ridea structures that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. ridea permits reits, such as us, to own or partially own qualified healthcare properties in a structure through which we can participate directly in the cash flow of the properties' operations (as compared to receiving only contractual rent payments under a triple-net lease) in compliance with reit requirements. the criteria for operating a qualified healthcare property in a ridea structure requires us to lease the property to an affiliate trs and for such affiliate trs to engage an independent qualifying management company, or operator (also known as an eligible independent contractor) to manage and operate the day-to-day business of the property. the operator performs its services in exchange for a management fee. as a result, under a ridea structure, we are required to rely on our operator to manage and operate the property, including hiring and training all employees, entering into all third-party contracts for the benefit of the property, including resident/patient agreements, complying with laws, including but not limited to healthcare laws, and providing resident care. 11 table of contents we have limited rights to direct or influence the business or operations of these properties. however, as the owner of the property under a ridea structure, our trs, and hence we, are ultimately responsible for all operational risks and other liabilities of the property, other than those arising out of certain actions by our operator, such as gross negligence or willful misconduct. operational risks include, and our resulting revenues therefore depend on, among other things: (i) occupancy rates; (ii) the entrance fees and rental rates charged to residents; (iii) medicare and medicaid reimbursement rates, to the extent applicable; (iv) our operators' reputations and ability to attract and retain residents; (v) general economic conditions and market factors that impact seniors; (vi) competition from other senior housing providers; (vii) compliance with federal, state, local and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations and standards; (viii) litigation involving our properties or residents/patients; (ix) the availability and cost of general and professional liability insurance coverage; and (x) the ability to control operating expenses. although we are permitted under a ridea structure to have certain general oversight approval rights (e.g., budgets, material contracts, etc.) and the right to review operational and financial reporting information, our operators are ultimately in control of the day-to-day business of the property. as a result, we have limited rights to direct or influence the business or operations of our properties in the shop segment and we depend on our operators to operate these properties in a manner that complies with applicable law, minimizes legal risk and maximizes the value of our investment. the failure by our operators to adequately manage these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. when we use a ridea structure, our trs is generally required to be the holder of the applicable healthcare license and is the entity that is enrolled in government healthcare programs (e.g., medicare, medicaid), where applicable. as the holder of a healthcare license, our trs and we (through our ownership interest in our trs) are subject to various regulatory laws. most states regulate and inspect healthcare property operations, patient care, construction and the safety of the physical environment. however, we are required under ridea to rely on our operators to oversee and direct these aspects of the properties' operations to ensure compliance with these applicable laws and regulations. if one or more of our healthcare properties fails to comply with applicable laws, our trs would be responsible (except in limited circumstances, such as the gross negligence or willful misconduct of our operators, where we would have a contractual claim against them), which could subject our trs to penalties including loss or suspension of licenses and certificates of need, certification or accreditation, exclusion from government healthcare programs (i.e., medicare, medicaid), administrative sanctions and civil monetary penalties. some states also reserve the right to sanction affiliates of a licensee when they take administrative action against the licensee. additionally, when we receive individually identifiable health information relating to residents of our healthcare properties, we are subject to federal and state data privacy and security laws and rules, and could be subject to liability in the event of an audit, complaint, cybersecurity attack or data breach. furthermore, our trs has exposure to professional liability claims that could arise out of resident claims, such as quality of care, and the associated litigation costs. rents received from the trs in a ridea structure are treated as qualifying rents from real property for reit tax purposes only if (i) they are paid pursuant to a lease of a qualified healthcare property and (ii) the operator qualifies as an eligible independent contractor, as defined in the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code ). if either of these requirements are not satisfied, then the rents will not be qualifying rents. decreases in our tenants', operators' or borrowers' revenues, or increases in their expenses, could affect their ability to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us. our leases consist of triple-net leases, in which we lease our properties directly to tenants and operators, as well as ridea leases, in which we lease our properties to an affiliate trs that enters into a management agreement with an eligible independent contractor, or operator, to manage and oversee the day-to-day business and operations of the properties. we are also a direct or indirect lender to various tenants and operators and separately provide loans to certain third parties. we have very limited control over the success or failure of our tenants', operators' and borrowers' businesses, regardless of the structure of our relationship with them. any of our triple-net tenants or operators under a ridea structure may experience a downturn in their business that materially weakens their financial condition. as a result, they may fail to make payments or perform their obligations when due. although we generally have arrangements and other agreements that give us the right under specified circumstances to terminate a lease, evict a tenant or terminate our operator, or demand immediate repayment of outstanding loan amounts or other obligations to us, we may not be able to enforce such rights or we may determine not to do so if we believe that enforcement of our rights would be more detrimental to our business than seeking alternative approaches. 12 table of contents our senior housing tenants and our shop segment under a ridea structure primarily depend on private sources for their revenues and the ability of their patients and residents to pay fees. costs associated with independent and assisted living services are not generally reimbursable under governmental reimbursement programs such as medicare and medicaid. accordingly, our tenants and operators of our shop segments depend on attracting seniors with appropriate levels of income and assets, which may be affected by many factors, including: (i) prevailing economic and market trends; (ii) consumer confidence; (iii) demographics; (iv) property condition; and (v) social and environmental factors. consequently, if our tenants or operators on our behalf fail to effectively conduct their operations, or to maintain and improve our properties, it could adversely affect our business reputation as the owner of the properties, as well as the business reputation of our tenants or operators and their ability to attract and retain patients and residents in our properties, which could have a materially adverse effect on our and our tenant's or operator's business, results of operations and financial condition. our senior housing tenants and our shop segment under a ridea structure also rely on reimbursements from governmental programs for a portion of the revenues from certain properties. changes in reimbursement policies and other governmental regulation, such as potential changes to, or repeal of, the patient protection and affordable care act, along with the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (the affordable care act ), that may result from actions by congress or executive orders, may result in reductions in our tenants' revenues or in our revenues from our ridea structures, operations and cash flows and affect our tenants' ability to meet their obligations to us or our financial performance through a ridea structure. in addition, failure to comply with reimbursement regulations or other laws applicable to healthcare providers could result in penalties, fines, litigation costs, lost revenue or other consequences, which could adversely impact our tenants' ability to make contractual rent payments to us under a triple-net lease or our cash flows from operations under a ridea structure. for a further discussion of the legislation and regulation that are applicable to us and our tenants, operators and borrowers, see -the requirements of, or changes to, government reimbursement programs such as medicare or medicaid, may adversely affect our tenants', operators' and borrowers' ability to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us. revenues of our senior housing tenants and our shop segment under a ridea structure are also dependent on a number of other factors, including licensed bed capacity, occupancy, the healthcare needs of residents, the rate of reimbursement, the income and assets of seniors in the regions in which we own properties, and social and environmental factors. for example, due to generally increased vulnerability to illness, a severe flu season, an epidemic or any other widespread illness could result in early move-outs or delayed move-ins during quarantine periods, which would reduce our operators' revenues. additionally, new and evolving payor and provider programs in the united states, including but not limited to medicare advantage, dual eligible, accountable care organizations, bundled payments and other value-based reimbursement arrangements, have resulted in reduced reimbursement rates, average length of stay and average daily census, particularly for higher acuity patients. if our tenants fail to maintain revenues sufficient to meet their financial obligations to us, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. similarly, if our operators under a ridea structure underperform, our business, results of operations and financial condition would also be materially adversely affected. increased competition, operating costs and market changes have resulted and may further result in lower net revenues for some of our tenants, operators and borrowers and may affect their ability to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us. the healthcare industry is highly competitive. the occupancy levels at, and rental income from, our properties are dependent on our ability and the ability of our tenants, operators and borrowers to compete with other tenants and operators on a number of different levels, including the quality of care provided, reputation, the physical appearance of a property, price, the range of services offered, family preference, alternatives for healthcare delivery, the supply of competing properties, physicians, staff, referral sources, location, and the size and demographics of the population in the surrounding area. in addition, our tenants, operators and borrowers face an increasingly competitive labor market for skilled management personnel and nurses. an inability to attract and retain skilled management personnel and nurses and other trained personnel could negatively impact the ability of our tenants, operators and borrowers to meet their obligations to us. a shortage of nurses or other trained personnel, union activities or general inflationary pressures on wages may force tenants, operators and borrowers to enhance pay and benefits packages to compete effectively for skilled personnel, or to use more expensive contract personnel, but they be unable to offset these added costs by increasing the rates charged to residents. any increase in labor costs and other property operating expenses or any failure by our tenants, operators or borrowers to attract and retain qualified personnel could adversely affect our cash flow and have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 13 table of contents our tenants, operators and borrowers also compete with numerous other companies providing similar healthcare services or alternatives such as home health agencies, life care at home, community-based service programs, retirement communities and convalescent centers. this competition, which is due, in part, to over-development in some segments in which we invest, has caused the occupancy rate of newly constructed buildings to slow and the monthly rate that many newly built and previously existing properties were able to obtain for their services to decrease. our tenants, operators and borrowers may be unable to achieve occupancy and rate levels, and to manage their expenses, in a way that will enable them to meet all of their obligations to us. further, many competing companies may have resources and attributes that are superior to those of our tenants, operators and borrowers. our tenants, operators and borrowers may encounter increased competition that could limit their ability to maintain or attract residents or expand their businesses or to manage their expenses, which could materially adversely affect their ability to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us, potentially decreasing our revenues, impairing our assets and/or increasing collection and dispute costs. the financial deterioration, insolvency or bankruptcy of one or more of our major tenants, operators or borrowers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. a downturn in any of our tenants', operators' or borrowers' businesses could ultimately lead to voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy or similar insolvency proceedings, including but not limited to assignment for the benefit of creditors, liquidation, or winding-up. bankruptcy and insolvency laws afford certain rights to a defaulting tenant, operator or borrower that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization that may render certain of our remedies unenforceable or, at the least, delay our ability to pursue such remedies and realize any related recoveries. for example, we cannot evict a tenant or operator solely because of its bankruptcy filing. a debtor has the right to assume, or to assume and assign to a third party, or to reject its executory contracts and unexpired leases in a bankruptcy proceeding. if a debtor were to reject its leases with us, obligations under such rejected leases would cease. the claim against the rejecting debtor would be an unsecured claim, which would be limited by the statutory cap set forth in the u.s. bankruptcy code. this statutory cap may be substantially less than the remaining rent actually owed under the lease. in addition, a debtor may also assert in bankruptcy proceedings that leases should be re-characterized as financing agreements, which could result in our being deemed a lender instead of a landlord. a lender's rights and remedies, as compared to a landlord's, generally are materially less favorable, and our rights as a lender may be subordinated to other creditors' rights. furthermore, the automatic stay provisions of the u.s. bankruptcy code would preclude us from enforcing our remedies unless we first obtain relief from the court having jurisdiction over the bankruptcy case. this would effectively limit or delay our ability to collect unpaid rent or interest payments, and we may ultimately not receive any payment at all. in addition, we would likely be required to fund certain expenses and obligations (e.g., real estate taxes, insurance, debt costs and maintenance expenses) to preserve the value of our properties, avoid the imposition of liens on our properties or transition our properties to a new tenant or operator. additionally, we lease many of our properties to healthcare providers who provide long-term custodial care to the elderly. evicting operators for failure to pay rent while the property is occupied typically involves specific procedural or regulatory requirements and may not be successful. even if eviction is possible, we may determine not to do so due to reputational or other risks. bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings typically also result in increased costs to the operator, significant management distraction and performance declines. if we are unable to transition affected properties, they would likely experience prolonged operational disruption, leading to lower occupancy rates and further depressed revenues. publicity about the operator's financial condition and insolvency proceeds may also negatively impact their and our reputations, decreasing customer demand and revenues. any or all of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, results of operations and cash flows. these risks would be magnified where we lease multiple properties to a single operator under a master lease, as an operator failure or default under a master lease would expose us to these risks across multiple properties. we depend on investments in the healthcare property sector, making our profitability more vulnerable to a downturn or slowdown in that specific sector than if we were investing in multiple industries. we concentrate our investments in the healthcare property sector. as a result, we are subject to risks inherent to investments in a single industry. a downturn or slowdown in the healthcare property sector would have a greater adverse impact on our business than if we had investments in multiple industries. specifically, such a downturn or slowdown could negatively impact the ability of our tenants, operators and borrowers to meet their obligations to us, as well as the ability to maintain rental and occupancy rates, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, a downturn or slowdown in the healthcare property sector could adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to sell properties at prices or on terms acceptable or favorable to us. 14 table of contents in addition, we are exposed to the risks inherent in concentrating our investments in real estate. our real estate investments are relatively illiquid due to several factors including, but not limited to: (i) restrictions on our ability to sell properties under applicable reit tax laws; (ii) other tax-related considerations; (iii) regulatory hurdles; and (iv) market conditions. our ability to quickly sell or transition any of our properties in response to changes in the performance of our properties or economic and other conditions is limited. we may be unable to recognize full value for any property that we seek to sell for liquidity reasons. our inability to timely respond to investment performance changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. tenants and operators that fail to comply with federal, state, local and international laws and regulations, including licensure, certification and inspection requirements, may cease to operate or be unable to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us. our tenants, operators and borrowers are subject to or impacted by extensive, frequently changing federal, state, local and international laws and regulations. these laws and regulations include, among others: (i) laws protecting consumers against deceptive practices; (ii) laws relating to the operation of our properties and how our tenants and operators conduct their business, such as fire, health and safety, data security and privacy laws; (iii) federal and state laws affecting hospitals, clinics and other healthcare communities that participate in both medicare and medicaid that specify reimbursement rates, pricing, reimbursement procedures and limitations, quality of services and care, background checks, food service and physical plants, and similar foreign laws regulating the healthcare industry; resident rights laws (including abuse and neglect laws) and fraud laws; (iv) anti-kickback and physician referral laws; (v) the ada and similar state and local laws; and (vi) safety and health standards set by the occupational safety and health administration or similar foreign agencies. certain of our properties may also require a license, registration and/or certificate of need to operate. our tenants', operators' or borrowers' failure to comply with any of these laws, regulations or requirements could result in: (i) loss of accreditation, denial of reimbursement; (ii) imposition of fines, suspension or decertification from government healthcare programs; (iii) civil liability; and (iv) in certain instances, criminal penalties, loss of license or closure of the property and/or the incurrence of considerable costs arising from an investigation or regulatory action, which may have an adverse effect on properties that we own and lease to a third party tenant, that we own and operate through a ridea structure or on which we hold a mortgage, and therefore may materially adversely impact us. see item 1-business-government regulation, licensing and enforcement-healthcare licensure and certificate of need. we may have difficulty identifying and securing replacement tenants or operators, and we may be required to incur substantial renovation or tenant improvement costs to make our properties suitable for them. our tenants may not renew existing leases, and our operators may not renew their management agreements beyond their current terms. if we or our tenants or operators terminate or do not renew the leases or management agreements for our properties, we would attempt to reposition those properties with another tenant or operator. we may also voluntarily change operators for a variety of reasons. for example, we transitioned a significant number of properties managed by brookdale to other operators as part of our strategic plan to reduce our brookdale concentration. healthcare properties are typically highly customized. the improvements generally required to conform a property to healthcare use, such as upgrading electrical, gas and plumbing infrastructure, are costly and at times tenant-specific and are typically subject to regulatory requirements. a new or replacement tenant or operator may require different features in a property, depending on that tenant's or operator's particular business. in addition, infrastructure improvements for life science properties typically are significantly more costly than improvements to other property types due to the highly specialized nature of the properties and the greater lease square footage often required by life science tenants. we may be unable to recover part or all of these higher costs. therefore, if a current tenant or operator is unable to pay rent and/or vacates a property, we may incur substantial expenditures to modify a property and experience delays before we are able to secure another tenant or operator or to accommodate multiple tenants or operators. these expenditures or renovations and delays may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. additionally, we may fail to identify suitable replacements or enter into leases, management agreements or other arrangements with new tenants or operators on a timely basis or on terms as favorable to us as our current leases, if at all. furthermore, during transition periods to new tenants or operators, we anticipate that the attention of existing tenants or operators will be diverted from the performance of the properties, which would cause the financial and operational performance at these properties to decline. for example, the brookdale properties we intended to sell or transition performed significantly worse during the transition period than our senior housing properties as a whole. following a decline in performance, we may not be able to rehabilitate the property to previous performance levels, which would adversely impact our results of operations. we also may be required to fund certain expenses and obligations, such as real estate taxes, debt costs and maintenance expenses, to preserve the value of, and avoid the imposition of liens on, our properties while they are being repositioned. in addition, we may incur certain obligations and liabilities, including obligations to indemnify the replacement tenant or operator, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 15 table of contents we face additional risks associated with property development and redevelopment that can render a project less profitable or not profitable at all and, under certain circumstances, prevent completion of development or redevelopment activities once undertaken. property development and redevelopment is a significant component of our growth strategy. at december 31, 2019 , our active development and redevelopment pipeline was approximately $1.4 billion with remaining costs to complete of approximately $758 million . large-scale, ground-up, healthcare property development presents additional risks for us, including risks that: a development opportunity may be abandoned after expending significant resources resulting in the loss of deposits or failure to recover expenses already incurred; the development and construction costs of a project may exceed original estimates due to increased interest rates and higher costs relating to materials, transportation, labor, leasing, negligent construction or construction defects, damage, vandalism or accidents, among others, which could make the completion of the development project less profitable; the project may not be completed on schedule as a result of a variety of factors that are beyond our control, including natural disasters, labor conditions, material shortages, regulatory hurdles, including the ability to obtain necessary zoning or land use permits, civil unrest and acts of war or terrorism, which result in increases in construction costs and debt service expenses or provide tenants or operators with the right to terminate pre-construction leases; and demand for the new project may decrease prior to completion, due to competition or other developments, and occupancy rates and rents at a newly completed property may not meet expected levels and could be insufficient to make the property profitable. any of the foregoing risks could result in not achieving our expected return on investment and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. changes within the life science industry may adversely impact our revenues and results of operations. for the year ended december 31, 2019 , properties in our life science segment accounted for approximately 22% of our total revenues. our life science investments could be adversely affected if the life science industry is impacted by an economic, financial, or banking crisis or if the life science industry migrates from the u.s. to other countries or to areas outside of primary life science markets in south san francisco, california, san diego, california, and greater boston, massachusetts. our ability to negotiate contractual rent escalations on future leases and to achieve increases in rental rates will depend upon market conditions and the demand for life science properties at the time the leases are negotiated and the increases are proposed. if economic, financial or industry conditions adversely affect our life science tenants, we may not be able to lease or re-lease our properties in a timely manner or at favorable rates, which would negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. for example, some of our properties may be better suited for a particular life science industry client tenant and could require modification before we are able to re-lease vacant space to another life science industry client tenant, which may delay the re-leasing process and result in unrecovered costs. additionally, some of our life science properties may not be suitable for lease to traditional office client tenants without significant expenditures on renovations, which could delay an attempt to reposition the property for rent to non-life science tenants. because infrastructure improvements for life science properties typically are significantly more costly than improvements to other property types due to the highly specialized nature of the properties, and life science tenants typically require greater lease square footage relative to medical office tenants, repositioning efforts would have a disproportionate adverse effect on our life science segment performance. see -we may have difficulty identifying and securing replacement tenants or operators, and we may be required to incur substantial renovation or tenant improvement costs to make our properties suitable for them. it is common for businesses in the life science industry to undergo mergers or consolidations. future mergers or consolidations of life science entities could reduce the amount of rentable square footage requirements of our client tenants and prospective client tenants, which may adversely impact our revenues from lease payments and results of operations. 16 table of contents our tenants in the life science industry face high levels of regulation, funding requirements, expense and uncertainty. life science tenants, particularly those involved in developing and marketing pharmaceutical products, are subject to certain unique risks, including the following: some of our tenants require significant funding for the research, development, clinical testing, manufacture and commercialization of their products and technologies, as well as to fund their obligations, including rent payments due to us, and our tenants' ability to raise capital depends on the viability of their products and technologies, their financial and operating condition and outlook, and the overall financial, banking and economic environment. if venture capital firms, private investors, the public markets, companies in the life science industry, the government or other sources of funding are difficult to obtain or unavailable to support our tenants' activities, including as a result of general economic conditions, adverse market conditions or government shutdowns that limit our tenants' ability to raise capital, a tenant's business would be adversely affected or fail; the research, development, clinical testing, manufacture and marketing of some of our tenants' products require federal, state and foreign regulatory approvals which may be costly or difficult to obtain, may take several years and be subject to delay, may not be obtained at all, require validation through clinical trials and the use of substantial resources, and may often be unpredictable; even after a life science tenant gains regulatory approval and market acceptance, the product may still present significant regulatory and liability risks, including, among others, the possible later discovery of safety concerns and other defects and potential loss of approvals, competition from new products and the expiration of patent protection for the product; our tenants with marketable products may be adversely affected by healthcare reform and the reimbursement policies of government or private healthcare payors; our tenants with marketable products may be unable to successfully manufacture their drugs economically; our tenants depend on the commercial success of certain products, which may be reliant on the efficacy of the product, as well as acceptance among doctors and patients; negative publicity or negative results or safety signals from the clinical trials of competitors may reduce demand or prompt regulatory actions; and our tenants may be unable to adapt to the rapid technological advances in the industry and to adequately protect their intellectual property under patent, copyright or trade secret laws and defend against third-party claims of intellectual property violations. if our tenants' businesses are adversely affected, they may fail to make their rent payments to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the hospitals on whose campuses our mobs are located and their affiliated healthcare systems could fail to remain competitive or financially viable, which could adversely impact their ability to attract physicians and physician groups to our mobs and our other properties that serve the healthcare industry. our mobs and other properties that serve the healthcare industry depend on the competitiveness and financial viability of the hospitals on whose campuses our mobs are located and their affiliated healthcare systems in order to attract physicians and other healthcare-related users. the viability of these hospitals, in turn, depends on factors such as: (i) the quality and mix of healthcare services provided; (ii) competition for patients and physicians; (iii) demographic trends in the surrounding community; (iv) market position; and (v) growth potential, as well as the ability of the affiliated healthcare systems to provide economies of scale and access to capital. if a hospital whose campus is located on or near one of our mobs is unable to meet its financial obligations, and if an affiliated healthcare system is unable to support that hospital, the hospital may not be able to compete successfully or could be forced to close or relocate, which could adversely impact its ability to attract physicians and other healthcare-related users. because we rely on our proximity to and affiliations with these hospitals to create tenant demand for space in our mobs, their inability to remain competitive or financially viable, or to attract physicians and physician groups, could adversely affect our mob operations and have a material adverse effect on us. in addition, changes to or replacement of the affordable care act and related regulations could result in significant changes to the scope of insurance coverage and reimbursement policies, which could put negative pressure on the operations and revenues of our mobs. 17 table of contents we may be unable to maintain or expand our relationships with our existing and future hospital and health system clients. the success of our medical office portfolio depends, to a large extent, on past, current and future relationships with hospitals and their affiliated health systems. we invest significant amounts of time in developing relationships with both new and existing clients. if we fail to maintain these relationships, including through a lack of responsiveness, failure to adapt to the current market or employment of individuals with inadequate experience, our reputation and relationships will be harmed and we may lose business to competitors. if our relationships with hospitals and their affiliated health systems deteriorate, it could have a material adverse effect on us. economic and other conditions that negatively affect geographic areas from which a greater percentage of our revenue is recognized could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. for the year ended december 31, 2019 , we derived 28% of our revenue from properties located in california, which is also where a large portion of our life science portfolio is located. as a result, we are subject to increased exposure to adverse conditions affecting california, including: (i) downturns in local economies; (ii) changes in local real estate conditions, including increases in real estate taxes; (iii) increased competition; (iv) decreased demand; (v) changes in state-specific legislation; and (vi) local climate events and natural disasters, such as earthquakes, windstorms, flooding, wildfires and mudslides. these risks could significantly disrupt our businesses in the region, harm our ability to compete effectively, result in increased costs, and divert management attention, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, if significant changes in the climate occur in areas where we own property, this could result in physical damage to or a decrease in demand for properties located in these areas or affected by these conditions. if changes in the climate have material effects, such as property destruction, or occur for extended periods, this could have a material adverse effect on business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, changes in federal, state and local legislation and regulation on climate change could require increased capital expenditures to improve the energy efficiency of our existing properties and could also cause increased costs for our new developments without a corresponding increase in revenue. uninsured or underinsured losses could result in a significant loss of capital invested in a property, lower than expected future revenues, and unanticipated expense. we maintain and regularly review the comprehensive insurance coverage on our properties with terms, conditions, limits and deductibles that we believe are adequate and appropriate given the relative risk and costs of such coverage. however, a large number of our properties are located in areas exposed to earthquake, windstorm, flood and other natural disasters. in particular, a significant portion of our life science development projects and approximately 80% of our existing life science portfolio (based on gross asset value) is concentrated in california, which is known to be subject to earthquakes, wildfires and other natural disasters. while we purchase insurance coverage for earthquake, fire, windstorm, flood and other natural disasters that we believe is adequate in light of current industry practice and analyses prepared by outside consultants, such insurance may not fully cover such losses. these losses can result in decreased anticipated revenues from a property and the loss of all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property. following these events, we may remain liable for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. furthermore, the insurance market for natural disasters exposures can be volatile, and we may be unable to purchase the limits and terms we desire on a commercially reasonable basis. in addition, there are certain exposures for which we do not purchase insurance because we do not believe it is economically feasible to do so or there is no viable insurance market. we maintain earthquake insurance for our properties that are located in the vicinity of active earthquake zones in amounts and with deductibles we believe are commercially reasonable. because of our significant concentration in the seismically active regions of south san francisco, california and san diego, california, a damaging earthquake in these areas could significantly impact multiple properties, which may amount to a significant portion of our life science portfolio. as a result, aggregate deductible amounts may be material, and our insurance coverage may be materially insufficient to cover our losses, either of which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if one of our properties experiences a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds policy coverage limits, we could lose our investment in the damaged property as well as the anticipated future cash flows from such property. if the damaged property is subject to recourse indebtedness, we could continue to be liable for the indebtedness even if the property is irreparably damaged. in addition, even if damage to our properties is covered by insurance, a disruption of business caused by a casualty event may result in loss of revenues for us. any business interruption insurance may not fully compensate the lender or us for such loss of revenue. 18 table of contents our use of joint ventures may limit our flexibility with jointly owned investments. we have and may continue to develop and/or acquire properties in joint ventures with other persons or entities when circumstances warrant the use of these structures. our participation in joint ventures is subject to risks that may not be present with other methods of ownership, including: our joint venture partners could have investment and financing goals that are not consistent with our objectives, including the timing, terms and strategies for any investments, and what levels of debt to incur or carry; we could experience an impasse on certain decisions because we do not have sole decision-making authority, which could require us to expend additional resources on resolving such impasses or potential disputes, including litigation or arbitration; our joint venture partners may have competing interests in our markets that could create conflicts of interest; our ability to transfer our interest in a joint venture to a third party may be restricted and the market for our interest may be limited and/or valued lower than fair market value; our joint venture partners may be structured differently than us for tax purposes, and this could create conflicts of interest and risks to our reit status; and our joint venture partners might become insolvent, fail to fund their share of required capital contributions or fail to fulfill their obligations as a joint venture partner, which may require us to infuse our own capital into the venture on behalf of the partner despite other competing uses for such capital. with respect to our joint ventures, we are limited in our ability to control or influence operations, and in our ability to exit or transfer our interest in the joint venture to a third party. as a result, we may not receive full value for our ownership interest if we tried to sell it to a third party. in addition, in some instances, we and/or our joint venture partner will have the right to cause us to sell our interest, or acquire our partner's interest, at a time when we otherwise would not have initiated such a transaction. our ability to acquire our partner's interest will be limited if we do not have sufficient cash, available borrowing capacity or other capital resources. this would require us to sell our interest in the joint venture when we would otherwise prefer to retain it. any of the foregoing risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we have now, and may have in the future, contingent rent provisions and/or rent escalators based on the consumer price index, which could hinder our profitability and growth. we derive a significant portion of our revenues from leasing properties pursuant to leases that generally provide for fixed rental rates, subject to annual escalations. under certain leases, a portion of the tenant's rental payment to us is based on the property's revenues (i.e., contingent rent). if, as a result of weak economic conditions or other factors, the property's revenue declines, our rental revenues would decrease and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. additionally, some of our leases provide that annual rent escalates based on changes in the consumer price index or other thresholds (i.e., contingent rent escalators). if the consumer price index does not increase or other applicable thresholds are not met, rental rates may not increase and our growth and profitability may be hindered. furthermore, if strong economic conditions result in significant increases in the consumer price index, but the escalations under our leases with contingent rent escalators are capped, our growth and profitability also may be limited. competition may make it difficult to identify and purchase, or develop, suitable healthcare properties to grow our investment portfolio, to finance acquisitions on favorable terms, or to retain or attract tenants and operators. we face significant competition from other reits, investment companies, private equity and hedge fund investors, sovereign funds, healthcare operators, lenders, developers and other institutional investors, some of whom may have greater resources and lower costs of capital than we do. increased competition makes it more challenging for us to identify and successfully capitalize on opportunities that meet our business goals and could improve the bargaining power of property owners seeking to sell, thereby impeding our investment, acquisition and development activities. similarly, our properties face competition for tenants and operators from other properties in the same market, which may affect our ability to attract and retain tenants and operators, or may reduce the rents we are able to charge. if we cannot capitalize on our development pipeline, identify and purchase a sufficient quantity of healthcare properties at favorable prices, finance acquisitions on commercially favorable terms, or attract and retain profitable tenants and operators, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. 19 table of contents from time to time we have made, and we may seek to make, one or more material acquisitions, which may involve the expenditure of significant funds. we regularly review potential transactions in order to maximize stockholder value. our review process may require significant management attention and a potential transaction could be abandoned or rejected by us or the other parties involved after we expend significant resources and time. in addition, future acquisitions may require the issuance of securities, the incurrence of debt, assumption of contingent liabilities or incurrence of significant expenditures, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, the financing required for acquisitions may not be available on commercially favorable terms or at all. from time to time, we may acquire other companies, and if we are unable to successfully integrate these operations, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. acquisitions require the integration of companies that have previously operated independently. successful integration of acquired companies depends primarily on our ability to consolidate operations, systems, procedures, properties and personnel, and to eliminate redundancies and reduce costs. we may encounter difficulties in these integrations. potential difficulties associated with acquisitions include: (i) our ability to effectively monitor and manage our expanded portfolio of properties; (ii) the loss of key employees; (iii) the disruption of our ongoing business or that of the acquired entity; (iv) possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies; and (v) the assumption of unexpected liabilities, including: liabilities relating to the cleanup or remediation of undisclosed environmental conditions; unasserted claims of vendors, residents, patients or other persons dealing with the seller; liabilities, claims and litigation, whether or not incurred in the ordinary course of business, relating to periods prior to our acquisition; claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the seller; claims for return of government reimbursement payments; and liabilities for taxes relating to periods prior to our acquisition. in addition, acquired companies and their properties may fail to perform as expected, including in respect of estimated cost savings. inaccurate assumptions regarding future rental or occupancy rates could result in overly optimistic estimates of future revenues. similarly, we may underestimate future operating expenses or the costs necessary to bring properties up to standards established for their intended use or for property improvements. if we have difficulties with any of these areas, or if we later discover additional liabilities or experience unforeseen costs relating to our acquired companies, we may not achieve the anticipated economic benefits from our acquisitions, and this may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our tenants, operators and borrowers face litigation and may experience rising liability and insurance costs. in some states, advocacy groups have been created to monitor the quality of care at healthcare properties, and these groups have brought litigation against the tenants and operators of such properties. also, in several instances, private litigation by patients, residents or whistleblowers has sought, and sometimes resulted in, large damage awards. see -the requirements of, or changes to, governmental reimbursement programs such as medicare or medicaid, may adversely affect our tenants', operators' and borrowers' ability to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us. the effect of this litigation and other potential litigation may materially increase the costs incurred by our tenants, operators and borrowers for monitoring and reporting quality of care compliance, which under a ridea structure would be borne by us. in addition, their cost of liability and medical malpractice insurance can be significant and may increase or not be available at a reasonable cost. cost increases could cause our tenants and borrowers to be unable to make their lease or mortgage payments or fail to purchase the appropriate liability and malpractice insurance, or cause our borrowers to be unable to meet their obligations to us, potentially decreasing our revenues and increasing our collection and litigation costs. furthermore, with respect to our senior housing properties operated in ridea structures, we directly bear the costs of any such increases in litigation, monitoring, reporting and insurance due to our direct exposure to the cash flows of such properties. in addition, as a result of our ownership of healthcare properties, we may be named as a defendant in lawsuits arising from the alleged actions of our tenants or operators. with respect to our triple-net leases, our tenants generally have agreed to indemnify us for various claims, litigation and liabilities in connection with their leasing and operation of our triple-net leased properties. 20 table of contents with respect to our ridea structured properties, we are responsible for these claims, litigation and liabilities, with limited indemnification rights against our operator typically based on the gross negligence or willful misconduct by the operator. although our leases provide us with certain information rights with respect to our tenants, one or more of our tenants may be or become party to pending litigation or investigation to which we are unaware or do not have a right to participate or evaluate. in such cases, we would be unable to determine the potential impact of such litigation or investigation on our tenants or our business or results. moreover, negative publicity of any of our operators' or tenants' litigation, other legal proceedings or investigations may also negatively impact their and our reputation, resulting in lower customer demand and revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. required regulatory approvals can delay or prohibit transfers of our healthcare properties. transfers of healthcare properties to successor tenants or operators are typically subject to regulatory approvals or ratifications, including, but not limited to, change of ownership approvals and medicare and medicaid provider arrangements that are not required for transfers of other types of commercial operations and other types of real estate. the replacement of any tenant or operator could be delayed by the regulatory approval process of any federal, state or local government agency necessary for the transfer of the property or the replacement of the operator licensed to manage the property, during which time the property may experience performance declines. if we are unable to find a suitable replacement tenant or operator upon favorable terms, or at all, we may take possession of a property, which could expose us to successor liability, require us to indemnify subsequent operators to whom we transfer the operating rights and licenses, or require us to spend substantial time and funds to preserve the value of the property and adapt the property to other uses, all of which could have a material adverse effect of our business, results of operations and financial condition. compliance with the americans with disabilities act and fire, safety and other regulations may require us to make expenditures that adversely affect our cash flows. our properties must comply with applicable ada and any similar state and local laws. this may require removal of barriers to access by persons with disabilities in public areas of our properties. noncompliance could result in the incurrence of additional costs associated with bringing the properties into compliance, the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants in individual lawsuits or as part of a class action. while the tenants to whom we lease our properties are obligated to comply with the ada and similar state and local provisions, and typically under tenant leases are obligated to cover costs associated with compliance, if required changes involve greater expenditures than anticipated, or if the changes must be made on a more accelerated basis than anticipated, the ability of these tenants to cover costs could be adversely affected. as a result, we could be required to expend funds to comply with the provisions of the ada and similar state and local laws on behalf of tenants, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. additionally, with respect to our shop properties under ridea structures, we are ultimately responsible for such litigation and compliance costs. in addition, we are required to operate our properties in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations. new and revised regulations and codes may be adopted by governmental agencies and bodies and become applicable to our properties. for example, new safety laws for senior housing properties were adopted following the particularly damaging 2018 hurricane season. compliance could require substantial capital expenditures, and may restrict our ability to renovate our properties. these expenditures and restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and cash flows. the requirements of, or changes to, governmental reimbursement programs such as medicare or medicaid, may adversely affect our tenants', operators' and borrowers' ability to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us. certain of our tenants, operators and borrowers are affected, directly or indirectly, by a complex set of federal, state and local laws and regulations pertaining to governmental reimbursement programs. these laws and regulations are subject to frequent and substantial changes that are sometimes applied retroactively. see item 1-business-government regulation, licensing and enforcement. for example, to the extent that our tenants, operators or borrowers receive a significant portion of their revenues from governmental payors, primarily medicare and medicaid, they are generally subject to, among other things: statutory and regulatory changes; retroactive rate adjustments; recovery of program overpayments or set-offs; federal, state and local litigation and enforcement actions; administrative proceedings; 21 table of contents policy interpretations; payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries or carriers; government funding restrictions (at a program level or with respect to specific properties); interruption or delays in payments due to any ongoing governmental investigations and audits at such properties; and reputational harm of publicly disclosed enforcement actions, audits or investigations related to billing and reimbursements. the failure to comply with the extensive laws, regulations and other requirements applicable to their business and the operation of our properties could result in, among other challenges: (i) becoming ineligible to receive reimbursement from governmental reimbursement programs; (ii) becoming subject to prepayment reviews or claims for overpayments; (iii) bans on admissions of new patients or residents; (iv) civil or criminal penalties; and (v) significant operational changes, including requirements to increase staffing or the scope of care given to residents. these laws and regulations are enforced by a variety of federal, state and local agencies and can also be enforced by private litigants through, among other things, federal and state false claims acts, which allow private litigants to bring qui tam or whistleblower actions. we are unable to predict future changes to or interpretations of federal, state and local statutes and regulations, including the medicare and medicaid statutes and regulations, or the intensity of enforcement efforts with respect to such statutes and regulations. any changes in the regulatory framework or the intensity or extent of governmental or private enforcement actions could have a material adverse effect on our tenants and operators. if, in turn, such tenants or operators fail to make contractual rent payments to us or, with respect to our shop segment, cash flows are adversely affected, it could have a material adverse effect on us. sometimes, governmental payors freeze or reduce payments to healthcare providers, or provide annual reimbursement rate increases that are smaller than expected, due to budgetary and other pressures. in addition, the federal government periodically makes changes in the statutes and regulations relating to medicare and medicaid reimbursement that may impact state reimbursement programs, particularly medicaid reimbursement. we cannot make any assessment as to the ultimate timing or the effect that any future changes may have on our tenants', operators' and borrowers' costs of doing business and on the amount of reimbursement by government and other third-party payors. the failure of any of our tenants, operators or borrowers to comply with these laws and regulations, and significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed, reductions in reimbursement rates and fees, or increases in provider or similar types of taxes, could materially adversely affect their ability to meet their financial and contractual obligations to us. furthermore, executive orders and legislation may amend or repeal the affordable care act and related regulations in whole or in part. we also anticipate that congress, state legislatures, and third-party payors may continue to review and assess alternative healthcare delivery and payment systems and may propose and adopt legislation or policy changes or implementations effecting additional fundamental changes in the healthcare system. for example, the department of health and human services has focused on tying medicare payments to quality or value through alternative payment models, which generally aim to make providers attentive to the total costs of treatments. medicare no longer reimburses hospitals for care related to certain preventable adverse events and imposes payment reductions on hospitals for preventable readmissions. these punitive approaches could be expanded to additional types of providers in the future. additionally, the centers for medicare and medicaid services recently finalized a new patient driven payment model used to calculate reimbursement rates for patients in skilled nursing properties. while we cannot quantify or predict the likely impact of these changes on the revenues and profitability of our tenants, operators and borrowers, these provisions could result in decreases in payments to our operators and tenants or increase our operators' and tenants' costs. if any such changes significantly and adversely affect our tenants' profitability, they could in turn negatively affect our tenants' ability and willingness to comply with the terms of their leases with us and/or renew their leases with us upon expiration, which could impact our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations. 22 table of contents legislation to address federal government operations and administration decisions affecting the centers for medicare and medicaid services could have a material adverse effect on our tenants', operators' and borrowers' liquidity, financial condition or results of operations. congressional consideration of legislation pertaining to the federal debt ceiling, the affordable care act, tax reform and entitlement programs, including reimbursement rates for physicians, could have a material adverse effect on our tenants', operators' and borrowers' liquidity, financial condition or results of operations. in particular, reduced funding for entitlement programs such as medicare and medicaid would result in increased costs and fees for programs such as medicare advantage plans and additional reductions in reimbursements to providers. amendments to or repeal of the affordable care act in whole or in part and decisions by the centers for medicare and medicaid services could impact the delivery of services and benefits under medicare, medicaid or medicare advantage plans and could affect our tenants and operators and the manner in which they are reimbursed by such programs. such changes could have a material adverse effect on our tenants', operators' and borrowers' liquidity, financial condition or results of operations, which could adversely affect their ability to satisfy their obligations to us and could have a material adverse effect on us. we may be unable to successfully foreclose on the collateral securing our real estate-related loans, and even if we are successful in our foreclosure efforts, we may be unable to successfully operate, occupy or reposition the underlying real estate, which may adversely affect our ability to recover our investments. if a tenant or operator defaults under one of our mortgages or mezzanine loans, we may have to foreclose on the loan or protect our interest by acquiring title to the collateral and thereafter making substantial improvements or repairs in order to maximize the property's investment potential. in some cases, the collateral consists of the equity interests in an entity that directly or indirectly owns the applicable real property or interests in operating properties and, accordingly, we may not have full recourse to assets of that entity, or that entity may have incurred unexpected liabilities. tenants, operators or borrowers may contest enforcement of foreclosure or other remedies, seek bankruptcy protection against our exercise of enforcement or other remedies and/or bring claims for lender liability in response to actions to enforce mortgage obligations. foreclosure-related costs, high loan-to-value ratios or declines in the value of the property may prevent us from realizing an amount equal to our mortgage or mezzanine loan upon foreclosure, and we may be required to record a valuation allowance for such losses. even if we are able to successfully foreclose on the collateral securing our real estate-related loans, we may inherit properties for which we may be unable to expeditiously secure tenants or operators, if at all, or we may acquire equity interests that we are unable to immediately resell due to limitations under the securities laws, either of which would adversely affect our ability to fully recover our investment. risks related to our capital structure and market conditions changes or increases in interest rates could result in a decrease in our stock price and increased interest costs on new debt and existing variable rate debt, which could materially adversely impact our ability to refinance existing debt, sell properties and conduct acquisition, investment and development activities. an increase in interest rates could reduce the amount investors are willing to pay for our common stock. because reit stocks are often perceived as high-yield investments, investors may perceive less relative benefit to owning reit stocks as interest rates and the yield on government treasuries and other bonds increase. additionally, we have existing debt obligations that are variable rate obligations with interest and related payments that vary with the movement of certain indices. if interest rates increase, so would our interest costs for any variable rate debt and for new debt. this increased cost would make the financing of any acquisition and development activity more costly. in addition, an increase in interest rates could decrease the amount third parties are willing to pay for our properties, thereby limiting our ability to reposition our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. rising interest rates could limit our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures, or cause us to pay higher interest rates upon refinancing and increase interest expense on refinanced indebtedness. if prevailing interest rates are higher than the interest rates of our senior notes at their maturity, we will incur additional interest expense upon any replacement debt. we manage a portion of our exposure to interest rate risk by accessing debt with staggered maturities and through the use of derivative instruments, primarily interest rate swap agreements. however, no amount of hedging activity can fully insulate us from the risks associated with changes in interest rates. swap agreements involve risk, including that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes, that the amount of income we earn from hedging transactions may be limited by federal tax provisions governing reits and that these arrangements may cause us to pay higher interest rates on our debt obligations than would otherwise be the case. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate risk could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 23 table of contents cash available for distribution to stockholders may be insufficient to make dividend distributions at expected levels and are made at the discretion of our board of directors. if cash available for distribution generated by our properties decreases as a result of our announced dispositions or otherwise, we may be unable to make dividend distributions at expected levels. our inability to make expected distributions would likely result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. all distributions are made at the discretion of our board of directors in accordance with maryland law and depend on: (i) our earnings; (ii) our financial condition; (iii) debt and equity capital available to us; (iv) our expectations for future capital requirements and operating performance; (v) restrictive covenants in our financial or other contractual arrangements, including those in our credit facility agreement; (vi) maintenance of our reit qualification; (vii) restrictions under maryland law; and (viii) other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant from time to time. additionally, our ability to make distributions will be adversely affected if any of the risks described herein, or other significant adverse events, occur. we rely on external sources of capital to fund future capital needs, and if access to such capital is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet commitments as they become due or make future investments necessary to grow our business. we may not be able to fund all future capital needs, including capital expenditures, debt maturities and other commitments, from cash retained from operations and dispositions. if we are unable to obtain enough internal capital, we may need to rely on external sources of capital (including debt and equity financing) to fulfill our capital requirements. our access to capital depends upon a number of factors, some of which we have little or no control over, including but not limited to: general availability of capital, including less favorable terms, rising interest rates and increased borrowing costs; the market price of the shares of our equity securities and the credit ratings of our debt and any preferred securities we may issue; the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions; our degree of financial leverage and operational flexibility; the financial integrity of our lenders, which might impair their ability to meet their commitments to us or their willingness to make additional loans to us, and our inability to replace the financing commitment of any such lender on favorable terms, or at all; the stability of the market value of our properties; the financial performance and general market perception of our tenants and operators; changes in the credit ratings on u.s. government debt securities or default or delay in payment by the united states of its obligations; issues facing the healthcare industry, including, but not limited to, healthcare reform and changes in government reimbursement policies; and the performance of the national and global economies generally. if access to capital is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, it could have material adverse impact on our ability to fund operations, repay or refinance our debt obligations, fund dividend payments, acquire properties and make the investments needed to grow our business. adverse changes in our credit ratings could impair our ability to obtain additional debt and equity financing on favorable terms, if at all, and negatively impact the market price of our securities, including our common stock. our credit ratings can affect the amount and type of capital we can access, as well as the terms of any financing we may obtain. the credit ratings of our senior unsecured debt are based on, among other things, our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position, level of indebtedness and pending or future changes in the regulatory framework applicable to our operators and our industry. we may be unable to maintain our current credit ratings, and in the event that our current credit ratings deteriorate, we would likely incur higher borrowing costs, which would make it more difficult or expensive to obtain additional financing or refinance existing obligations and commitments. also, a downgrade in our credit ratings would trigger additional costs or other potentially negative consequences under our current and future credit facilities and debt instruments. 24 table of contents our level of indebtedness may increase and materially adversely affect our future operations. our outstanding indebtedness as of december 31, 2019 was approximately $6.4 billion . we may incur additional indebtedness, including in connection with the development or acquisition of properties, which may be substantial. any significant additional indebtedness would likely negatively affect the credit ratings of our debt and require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to interest and principal payments due on our indebtedness. greater demands on our cash resources may reduce funds available to us to pay dividends, conduct development activities, make capital expenditures and acquisitions or carry out other aspects of our business strategy. increased indebtedness can also make us more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions and create competitive disadvantages for us compared to other companies with relatively lower debt levels. increased future debt service obligations may limit our operational flexibility, including our ability to finance or refinance our properties, contribute properties to joint ventures or sell properties as needed. covenants in our debt instruments limit our operational flexibility, and breaches of these covenants could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. the terms of our current secured and unsecured debt instruments and other indebtedness that we may incur, require or will require us to comply with a number of customary financial and other covenants, such as maintaining leverage ratios, minimum tangible net worth requirements, reit status and certain levels of debt service coverage. our continued ability to incur additional debt and to conduct business in general is subject to compliance with these financial and other covenants, which limit our operational flexibility. for example, mortgages on our properties contain customary covenants such as those that limit or restrict our ability, without the consent of the lender, to further encumber or sell the applicable properties, or to replace the applicable tenant or operator. breaches of certain covenants may result in defaults under the mortgages on our properties and cross-defaults under certain of our other indebtedness, even if we satisfy our payment obligations to the respective obligee. covenants that limit our operational flexibility as well as defaults resulting from the breach of any of these covenants could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. volatility, disruption or uncertainty in the financial markets may impair our ability to raise capital, obtain new financing or refinance existing obligations and fund real estate and development activities. we may be affected by general market and economic conditions. increased or prolonged market disruption, volatility or uncertainty could materially adversely impact our ability to raise capital, obtain new financing or refinance our existing obligations as they mature and fund real estate and development activities. market volatility could also lead to significant uncertainty in the valuation of our investments and those of our joint ventures, which may result in a substantial decrease in the value of our properties and those of our joint ventures. as a result, we may be unable to recover the carrying amount of such investments and the associated goodwill, if any, which may require us to recognize impairment charges in earnings. risks related to other events we rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our business. we rely on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes, including financial transactions and records, and maintaining personal identifying information and tenant and lease data. we purchase some of our information technology from vendors, on whom our systems depend. we rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for the processing, transmission and storage of confidential tenant and customer data, including individually identifiable information relating to financial accounts. although we have taken steps to protect the security of our information systems and the data maintained in those systems, it is possible that our safety and security measures will not prevent the systems' improper functioning or damage, or the improper access or disclosure of personally identifiable information such as in the event of cyber-attacks. the risk of security breaches has generally increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attacks and intrusions have increased. in addition, the pace and unpredictability of cyber threats generally quickly renders long-term implementation plans designed to address cybersecurity risks obsolete. because our operators also rely on information technology networks, systems and software, we may be exposed to cyber-attacks on our operators. 25 table of contents security breaches of our or our operators' networks and systems, including those caused by physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, malware, worms, attacks by hackers or foreign governments, disruptions from unauthorized access and tampering, including through social engineering such as phishing attacks, coordinated denial-of-service attacks and similar breaches, could result in, among other things, system disruptions, shutdowns, unauthorized access to or disclosure of confidential information, misappropriation of our or our business partners' proprietary or confidential information, breach of our legal, regulatory or contractual obligations, inability to access or rely upon critical business records or systems or other delays in our operations. in some cases, it may be difficult to anticipate or immediately detect such incidents and the damage they cause. we may be required to expend significant financial resources to protect against or to remediate such security breaches. in addition, our technology infrastructure and information systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss and telecommunications failures. any failure to maintain proper function, security and availability of our and our operators' information systems and the data maintained in those systems could interrupt our operations, damage our reputation, subject us to liability claims or regulatory penalties, harm our business relationships or increase our security and insurance costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to certain provisions of maryland law and our charter relating to business combinations which may prevent a transaction that may otherwise be in the interest of our stockholders. the maryland business combination act (the mbca ) provides that unless exempted, a maryland corporation may not engage in business combinations, including a merger, consolidation, share exchange or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities with an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder became an interested stockholder, and thereafter unless specified criteria are met. an interested stockholder is generally a person owning or controlling, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting power of the outstanding voting stock of a maryland corporation. unless our board of directors takes action to exempt us, generally or with respect to certain transactions, from the mbca, it will be applicable to business combinations between us and other persons. in addition to the restrictions on business combinations contained in the mbca, our charter also contains restrictions on business combinations. our charter requires that, except in certain circumstances, business combinations, including a merger or consolidation, and certain asset transfers and issuances of securities, with a related person, including a beneficial owner of 10% or more of our outstanding voting stock, be approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 90% of our outstanding voting stock. the restrictions on business combinations provided under maryland law and contained in our charter may delay, defer or prevent a change of control or other transaction even if such transaction involves a premium price for our common stock or our stockholders believe that such transaction is otherwise in their best interests. unfavorable resolution of litigation matters and disputes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. from time to time, we are involved in legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims. we may also be named as defendants in lawsuits arising out of our alleged actions or the alleged actions of our tenants and operators for which such tenants and operators have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless. an unfavorable resolution of any such litigation may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. regardless of the outcome, litigation or other legal proceedings may result in substantial costs, disruption of our normal business operations, and the diversion of management attention. we may be unable to prevail in, or achieve a favorable settlement of, any pending or future legal action against us. see "item 3-legal proceedings" of this annual report on form 10-k. the loss or limited availability of our key personnel could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and the value of our common stock. we depend on the efforts of our executive officers for the success of our business, and competition for these individuals is intense. although they are covered by our executive severance plan and change in control plan, which provide many of the benefits typically found in executive employment agreements, none of our executive officers have employment agreements with us. the loss or limited availability of the services of any of our executive officers, or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel, could, at least temporarily, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and the value of our common stock. 26 table of contents environmental compliance costs and liabilities associated with our real estate-related investments may be substantial and may materially impair the value of those investments. federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations may require us, as a current or previous owner of real estate, to investigate and clean up certain hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum released at a property. we may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage and for investigation and cleanup costs incurred by the third parties in connection with the contamination. the costs of cleanup and remediation could be substantial. in addition, some environmental laws create a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and the costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. although we currently carry environmental insurance on our properties in an amount that we believe is commercially reasonable and generally require our tenants and operators to indemnify us for environmental liabilities they cause, such liabilities could exceed the amount of our insurance, the financial ability of the tenant or operator to indemnify us or the value of the contaminated property. as the owner of a site, we may also be held liable to third parties for damages and injuries resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the site. we may also experience environmental liabilities arising from conditions not known to us. the cost of defending against these claims, complying with environmental regulatory requirements, conducting remediation of any contaminated property, or paying personal injury or other claims or fines could be substantial and could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, the presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may materially adversely affect our ability to use, sell or lease the property or to borrow using the property as collateral. risks related to tax, including reit-related risks loss of our tax status as a reit would substantially reduce our available funds and would have materially adverse consequences for us and the value of our common stock. qualification as a reit involves the application of numerous highly technical and complex provisions of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code ), for which there are limited judicial and administrative interpretations, as well as the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. we intend to continue to operate in a manner that enables us to qualify as a reit. however, our qualification and taxation as a reit depend upon our ability to meet, through actual annual operating results, asset diversification, distribution levels and diversity of stock ownership, the various qualification tests imposed under the code. for example, to qualify as a reit, at least 95% of our gross income in any year must be derived from qualifying sources, and we must make distributions to our stockholders aggregating annually to at least 90% of our reit taxable income, excluding net capital gains. rents we receive from a trs in a ridea structure are treated as qualifying rents from real property for reit tax purposes only if (i) they are paid pursuant to a lease of a qualified healthcare property, and (ii) the operator qualifies as an eligible independent contractor, as defined in the code. if either of these requirements are not satisfied, then the rents will not be qualifying rents. furthermore, new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could change the tax laws or interpretations of the tax laws regarding qualification as a reit, or the federal income tax consequences of that qualification, in a manner that is materially adverse to our stockholders. accordingly, there is no assurance that we have operated or will continue to operate in a manner so as to qualify or remain qualified as a reit. if we lose our reit status, we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available to make payments of principal and interest on the debt securities we issue and to make distributions to stockholders. if we fail to qualify as a reit: we will not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income; we will be subject to corporate-level income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates; we will be subject to increased state and local income taxes; and unless we are entitled to relief under relevant statutory provisions, we will be disqualified from taxation as a reit for the four taxable years following the year during which we fail to qualify as a reit. as a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a reit could also impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital and could materially adversely affect the value of our common stock. 27 table of contents further changes to u.s. federal income tax laws could materially and adversely affect us and our stockholders. the present federal income tax treatment of reits may be modified, possibly with retroactive effect, by legislative, judicial or administrative action at any time, which could affect the federal income tax treatment of an investment in us. the federal income tax rules dealing with u.s. federal income taxation and reits are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process, the u.s. internal revenue service (the irs ) and the u.s. treasury department, which results in statutory changes as well as frequent revisions to regulations and interpretations. we cannot predict how changes in the tax laws might affect our investors or us. revisions in federal tax laws and interpretations thereof could significantly and negatively affect our ability to qualify as a reit, as well as the tax considerations relevant to an investment in us, or could cause us to change our investments and commitments. we could have potential deferred and contingent tax liabilities from corporate acquisitions that could limit, delay or impede future sales of our properties. if, during the five-year period beginning on the date we acquire certain companies, we recognize a gain on the disposition of any property acquired, then, to the extent of the excess of (i) the fair market value of such property as of the acquisition date over (ii) our adjusted income tax basis in such property as of that date, we will be required to pay a corporate-level federal income tax on this gain at the highest regular corporate rate. there can be no assurance that these triggering dispositions will not occur, and these requirements could limit, delay or impede future sales of our properties. in addition, the irs may assert liabilities against us for corporate income taxes for taxable years prior to the time that we acquire certain companies, in which case we will owe these taxes plus interest and penalties, if any. there are uncertainties relating to the calculation of non-reit tax earnings and profits ( e&amp;p ) in certain acquisitions, which may require us to distribute e&amp;p. in order to remain qualified as a reit, we are required to distribute to our stockholders all of the accumulated non-reit e&amp;p of certain companies that we acquire, prior to the close of the first taxable year in which the acquisition occurs. failure to make such e&amp;p distributions would result in our disqualification as a reit. the determination of the amount to be distributed in such e&amp;p distributions is a complex factual and legal determination. we may have less than complete information at the time we undertake our analysis, or we may interpret the applicable law differently from the irs. we currently believe that we have satisfied the requirements relating to such e&amp;p distributions. there are, however, substantial uncertainties relating to the determination of e&amp;p, including the possibility that the irs could successfully assert that the taxable income of the companies acquired should be increased, which would increase our non-reit e&amp;p. moreover, an audit of the acquired company following our acquisition could result in an increase in accumulated non-reit e&amp;p, which could require us to pay an additional taxable distribution to our then-existing stockholders, if we qualify under rules for curing this type of default, or could result in our disqualification as a reit. thus, we might fail to satisfy the requirement that we distribute all of our non-reit e&amp;p by the close of the first taxable year in which the acquisition occurs. moreover, although there are procedures available to cure a failure to distribute all of our e&amp;p, we cannot now determine whether we will be able to take advantage of these procedures or the economic impact on us of doing so. our charter contains ownership limits with respect to our common stock and other classes of capital stock. our charter contains restrictions on the ownership and transfer of our common stock and preferred stock that are intended to assist us in preserving our qualification as a reit. under our charter, subject to certain exceptions, no person or entity may own, actually or constructively, more than 9.8% (by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the outstanding shares of our common stock or any class or series of our preferred stock. additionally, our charter has a 9.9% ownership limitation on the direct or indirect ownership of our voting shares, which may include common stock or other classes of capital stock. our board of directors, in its sole discretion, may exempt a proposed transferee from either ownership limit. the ownership limits may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 67 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to various market risks, including the potential loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates. we use derivative and other financial instruments in the normal course of business to mitigate interest rate. we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. derivatives are recorded on the consolidated balance sheets at fair value (see note 21 to the consolidated financial statements). to illustrate the effect of movements in the interest rate markets, we performed a market sensitivity analysis on our hedging instruments. we applied various basis point spreads to the underlying interest rate curves of the derivative portfolio in order to determine the change in fair value. assuming a one percentage point change in the underlying interest rate curve, the estimated change in fair value of each of the underlying derivative instruments would not be material. interest rate risk at december 31, 2019 , our exposure to interest rate risk is primarily on our variable rate debt. at december 31, 2019 , $42 million of our variable-rate debt was hedged by interest rate swap transactions. the interest rate swaps are designated as cash flow hedges, with the objective of managing the exposure to interest rate risk by converting the interest rates on our variable-rate debt to fixed interest rates. interest rate fluctuations will generally not affect our future earnings or cash flows on our fixed rate debt and assets until their maturity or earlier prepayment and refinancing. if interest rates have risen at the time we seek to refinance our fixed rate debt, whether at maturity or otherwise, our future earnings and cash flows could be adversely affected by additional borrowing costs. conversely, lower interest rates at the time of refinancing may reduce our overall borrowing costs. however, interest rate changes will affect the fair value of our fixed rate instruments. at december 31, 2019 , a one percentage point increase or decrease in interest rates would change the fair value of our fixed rate debt by approximately $365 million and $401 million , respectively, and would not materially impact earnings or cash flows. additionally, a one percentage point increase or decrease in interest rates would change the fair value of our fixed rate debt investments by approximately $2 million and less than $7 million , respectively, and would not materially impact earnings or cash flows. conversely, changes in interest rates on variable rate debt and investments would change our future earnings and cash flows, but not materially impact the fair value of those instruments. assuming a one percentage point change in the interest rate related to our variable-rate debt and variable-rate investments, and assuming no other changes in the outstanding balance at december 31, 2019 , our annual interest expense and interest income would increase by approximately $3 million and $1 million , respectively. market risk we have investments in marketable debt securities classified as held-to-maturity because we have the positive intent and ability to hold the securities to maturity. held-to-maturity securities are recorded at amortized cost and adjusted for the amortization of premiums and discounts through maturity. we consider a variety of factors in evaluating an other-than-temporary decline in value, such as: the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been less than our current adjusted carrying value; the issuer's financial condition, capital strength and near-term prospects; any recent events specific to that issuer and economic conditions of its industry; and our investment horizon in relationship to an anticipated near-term recovery in the market value, if any. at december 31, 2019 , both the fair value and carrying value of marketable debt securities was $20 million . 67 table of contents