quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. - ------- ---------------------------------------------------------- see the information set forth under the heading "market risk" above under item 7., management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, on pages 47 to 48 of this report.risk factors you should consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information presented in this report. these risks have the potential to materially adversely affect the company's business, results of operations or financial condition. risks relating to the company generally legal and regulatory issues we are subject to significant uninsured exposures arising from errors and omissions claims. our operating companies provide numerous professional services, including the placement of insurance and the provision of consulting, actuarial and other services for corporate and public clients around the world. as a result of these activities, the company and its subsidiaries are subject to a significant number of errors and omissions, or e&amp;o claims, particularly in our marsh and mercer businesses. in our risk and insurance services segment, such claims include allegations of damages arising from our failure to adequately place coverage or notify insurers of potential claims on behalf of clients. in our consulting segment, such claims include allegations of damages arising from our actuarial, consulting, pension administration and other services, which frequently involve (1) assumptions and estimates concerning future events, (2) complex drafting and interpretation of documentation governing pension plans, and (3) calculating benefits within complicated pension structures. given the long-tail nature of professional liability claims, e&amp;o matters often relate to services provided by the company dating back many years. in each of our segments, e&amp;o claims seek damages, including punitive and treble damages, in amounts that could, if awarded, be significant and subject us to potential liability for monetary damages, negative publicity, reputational harm and to diversion of personnel and management resources. in establishing liabilities for errors and omissions claims in accordance with fasb asc subtopic no. 450-20 (contingencies loss contingencies), the company utilizes case level reviews by inside and outside counsel, an internal actuarial analysis and other analysis to estimate potential losses. a liability is 12 established when a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable. the liability is reviewed quarterly and adjusted as developments warrant. in many cases, the company has not recorded a liability, other than for legal fees to defend the claim, because we are unable, at the present time, to make a determination that a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable. nevertheless, given the unpredictability of e&amp;o claims and of litigation that could flow from them, it is possible that an adverse outcome in a particular matter could have a material adverse effect on the company's businesses, results of operations, financial condition or cash flow in a given quarterly or annual period. to the extent that expected losses exceed our deductible in any policy year, the company also records an asset for the amount that we expect to recover under any available third-party insurance programs. the company has varying levels of third-party insurance coverage, with policy limits and coverage terms varying significantly by policy year. further, as more fully described in note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included under part ii, item 8 of this report, we are subject to legal proceedings, regulatory investigations and other contingencies other than e&amp;o claims which, if determined unfavorably to us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. our compliance systems and controls cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially applicable u.s. federal and state or foreign laws and regulations, and actions by regulatory authorities or changes in legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate may have an adverse effect on our business. our activities are subject to extensive regulation under the laws of the united states and its various states, the european union and its member states, and the other jurisdictions in which we operate. for example, we are subject to regulation by foreign and domestic governments, regulatory agencies such as the sec in the united states and the fsa in the united kingdom, and self-regulatory organizations such as finra, as described further above under part i, item 1 business (regulation) of this report. compliance with foreign and u.s. laws and regulations that are applicable to our operations is complex and may increase our cost of doing business in international jurisdictions. these laws and regulations include import and export requirements, anti-corruption laws such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the uk bribery act 2010, local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, as well as various trade sanctions laws such as the various international legislative and regulatory requirements relating to trade with iran. as a publicly-traded company, we are subject to additional federal, state and other rules and regulations, including those required by the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act. compliance with the requirements of these laws and regulations may be costly and adversely affect our business. while we attempt to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that we, our employees, our consultants or our contractors are in full compliance with all applicable laws and regulations or interpretations of these laws and regulations at all times or that we will be able to comply with any future laws, regulations or interpretations of these laws and regulations. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including those referred to above, we may be subject to investigations, criminal sanctions or civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, loss of an operating license or approval, increased scrutiny or oversight by regulatory authorities, the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in a particular business or redress to clients. the cost of compliance or the consequences of non-compliance could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations or financial condition. in addition, these matters could have a material adverse effect on the company by exposing us to negative publicity, reputational damage or harm to our client or employee relationships. in most jurisdictions, government regulatory authorities have the power to interpret or amend applicable laws and regulations, and have discretion to grant, renew and revoke various licenses and approvals we need to conduct our activities. such authorities may require the company to incur substantial increases in costs in order to comply with such laws and regulations. in some areas of our businesses, we act on the basis of our own or the industry's interpretations of applicable laws or regulations, which may conflict from state to state or country to country. in the event those interpretations eventually prove different from those of regulatory authorities, we might be penalized or precluded from carrying on our previous activities. 13 moreover, the laws and regulations to which we are subject may conflict among the various jurisdictions and countries in which we operate. future changes in the regulatory environment may impact our ability to generate additional revenue streams or enhance revenue streams. any significant impairment of our ability to conduct our business as we historically have done could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. finally, government involvement in the insurance or reinsurance markets could displace insurance or reinsurance currently available from the private market and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. improper disclosure of personal data could result in legal liability or harm our reputation. in many jurisdictions, we may have certain obligations to maintain the security and privacy of our clients' confidential and proprietary information and the personal information of our employees, our individual customers, and our clients' employees and retirement and other benefit plan participants. we maintain policies, procedures and technological safeguards designed to protect the security and privacy of this information. nonetheless, we cannot entirely eliminate the risk of improper access to or disclosure of personal information. such disclosure could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under our contracts, as well as laws and regulations, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. further, data privacy is subject to frequently changing laws, rules and regulations in the various jurisdictions and countries in which we operate. our failure to adhere to or successfully implement processes in response to changing legal or regulatory requirements in this area could result in legal liability or impairment to our reputation in the marketplace, as well as the general risks described above relating to our compliance systems and controls. financial risks our pension obligations may cause the company's earnings and cash flows to fluctuate. volatility in global equity and bond markets may have an unfavorable impact on the value of the company's pension trust assets as well as estimated future pension liabilities. as a result, the company's financial results in any period could be negatively impacted. in addition, in a period of an extended financial market downturn, the company could be required to provide incremental pension plan funding with resulting liquidity risk which could negatively impact the company's financial flexibility. the company has significant pension obligations to its current and former employees, totaling approximately $12 billion at december 31, 2011. given the magnitude of our worldwide pension plans, our earnings and cash flows are comparatively sensitive to factors such as equity and bond market returns, as well as the assumed interest rates we use to discount our pension liabilities, rates of inflation and mortality assumptions. in accordance with asc topic no 715, the company reflects the over- or under-funded amount of its pension plans as assets or liabilities, respectively. variations in any of the preceding factors could cause significant fluctuation in our earnings as well as our shareholder's equity from year to year and may result in increased levels of contributions to our pension plans. our results of operations could be adversely affected by economic and political conditions and the effects of these conditions on our clients' businesses and levels of business activity. global economic and political conditions affect our clients' businesses and the markets they serve. in 2008 and 2009, the credit markets and the financial services industry experienced a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the united states and foreign governments. these economic conditions have resulted in negative impacts on businesses and financial institutions, and financial services entities in particular. the global economic crisis has had a significant effect on our consulting segment in particular. many of our clients have been reducing expenses, including amounts they spend on consulting services. if these economic conditions persist or deteriorate, they could potentially have a significant impact on our operations. these economic conditions may reduce demand for our services or depress pricing of those services, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. changes in global economic conditions could also shift demand to services for which we do not have competitive advantages, and this 14 could negatively affect the amount of business that we are able to obtain. should it become necessary for us to further restructure our business, including reducing our work force, as a result of these market conditions or other factors that reduce the demand for our products and services, our ability to execute our business strategy could be adversely affected. financial institution failures may cause us to incur increased expenses or make it more difficult either to utilize our existing debt capacity or otherwise obtain financing for our operations, investing activities (including the financing of any future acquisitions), or financing activities. our cash investments, including those held in a fiduciary capacity, are subject to general credit, liquidity, counterparty, market and interest rate risks that may be exacerbated by the difficulties faced by financial institution counterparties. if the banking system or the fixed income, credit or equity markets deteriorate further or remain volatile, the values and liquidity of our investments could be adversely affected. concerns regarding the european debt crisis and market perceptions concerning the instability of the euro could adversely affect the company's operating results as well as the value of the company's euro-denominated assets. concerns persist regarding the ability of certain eurozone countries to service their debt obligations. as a result, a number of these countries have undertaken a variety of actions, such as cutting spending and raising taxes, designed to ease their future debt burdens. a potential consequence may be stagnant growth, or even recession, in the eurozone economies and beyond. also, the stability of the euro and its viability as a single currency is being called into question. in the future, certain countries may find it advantageous to leave the eurozone and reintroduce their local currencies to retain better control over their economic situations. a more extreme outcome is the complete dissolution of the euro. any of these developments could lead to further contraction in the eurozone economies, adversely affecting our operating results in the region. the company may also face increased credit risk as our clients and financial institution counterparties in the region find themselves with reduced resources to meet their obligations. finally, the value of the company's assets held in the eurozone, including cash holdings, will decline if the currency devalues. credit rating downgrades would increase our financing costs and could subject us to operational risk. currently, the company's senior debt is rated baa2 by moody's and bbb- by s&amp;p. these ratings are the next-to-lowest investment grade rating for moody's, and the lowest investment-grade rating for s&amp;p. ratings from both s&amp;p and moody's currently carry a stable outlook. if we need to raise capital in the future (for example, in order to fund maturing debt obligations or finance acquisitions or other initiatives), a credit rating downgrade would increase our financing costs, and could limit our access to financing sources. further, we believe that a downgrade to a rating below investment-grade could result in greater operational risks through increased operating costs and increased competitive pressures. our significant non-u.s. operations expose us to exchange rate fluctuations and various risks that could impact our business. we are subject to exchange rate risk because some of our subsidiaries receive revenue other than in their functional currencies, and because we must translate the financial results of our foreign subsidiaries into u.s. dollars. our u.s. operations earn revenue and incur expenses primarily in u.s. dollars. in certain jurisdictions, however, our risk and insurance services operations generate revenue in a number of different currencies, but expenses are almost entirely incurred in local currency. due to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, we are subject to economic exposure as well as currency translation exposure on the profits of our operations. exchange rate risk could have a significant impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. increased counterparty risk and changes in interest rates could reduce the value of our investment portfolio and adversely affect our financial results. during times of stress in the banking industry counterparty risk can quickly escalate, potentially resulting in substantial trading and investment losses for corporate and other investors. in addition, we may incur 15 investment losses as a result of unusual and unpredictable market developments, and we may continue to experience reduced investment earnings if the yields on investments deemed to be low risk remain low. we are a holding company and, therefore, may not be able to receive dividends or other distributions in needed amounts from our subsidiaries. the company is organized as a holding company, a legal entity separate and distinct from our operating subsidiaries. as a holding company without significant operations of our own, we are dependent upon dividends and other payments from our operating subsidiaries to meet our obligations for paying principal and interest on outstanding debt obligations, for paying dividends to stockholders and for corporate expenses. in the event our operating subsidiaries are unable to pay dividends and other payments to the company, we may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on common stock. further, the company derives a significant portion of its revenue and operating profit from operating subsidiaries located outside the u.s. since the majority of financing obligations as well as dividends to stockholders are made from the u.s., it is important to be able to access cash generated outside the u.s. funds from the company's operating subsidiaries outside of the u.s. are periodically repatriated to the u.s. via shareholder distributions and intercompany financings. a number of factors may arise that could limit our ability to repatriate funds or make repatriation cost prohibitive, including, but not limited to, foreign exchange rates and tax-related costs. in the event we are unable to generate cash from our operating subsidiaries for any of the reasons discussed above, our overall liquidity could deteriorate. international operations we are exposed to multiple risks associated with the global nature of our operations. we do business worldwide. in 2011, 55% of the company's total operating segment revenue was generated from operations outside the united states, and over one-half of our employees are located outside the united states. we expect to expand our non-u.s. operations further. the geographic breadth of our activities subjects us to significant legal, economic, operational, market, compliance and reputational risks. these include, among others, risks relating to: economic and political conditions in foreign countries, including the recent european debt crisis; unexpected increases in taxes or changes in u.s. or foreign tax laws; withholding or other taxes that foreign governments may impose on the payment of dividends or other remittances to us from our non-u.s. subsidiaries; potential transfer pricing-related tax exposures that may result from the allocation of u.s.-based costs that benefit our non-u.s. businesses; potential conflicts of interest that may arise as we expand the scope of our businesses and our client base; international hostilities, terrorist activities, natural disasters and infrastructure disruptions; local investment or other financial restrictions that foreign governments may impose; potential costs and difficulties in complying, or monitoring compliance, with rules relating to trade sanctions administered by the u.s. office of foreign assets control, the requirements of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, or other u.s. laws and regulations applicable to business operations abroad; limitations that foreign governments may impose on the conversion of currency or the payment of dividends or other remittances to us from our non-u.s. subsidiaries; the length of payment cycles and potential difficulties in collecting accounts receivable, particularly in light of the increasing number of insolvencies in the current economic environment and the numerous bankruptcy laws to which they are subject; engaging and relying on third parties to perform services on behalf of the company; 16 potential difficulties in monitoring employees in geographically dispersed locations; and potential costs and difficulties in complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations (including tax systems) administered by foreign government agencies, some of which may conflict with u.s. or other sources of law. our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem could cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as an earthquake, hurricane, terrorist attack, pandemic, security breach, power loss, telecommunications failure or other natural or man-made disaster, our continued success will depend, in part, on the availability of our personnel, our office facilities, and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. in such an event, our operational size, the multiple locations from which we operate, and our existing back-up systems would provide us with an important advantage. nevertheless, we could still experience near-term operational challenges with regard to particular areas of our operations, such as key executive officers or personnel. our operations, particularly within our consulting segment, are dependent upon our ability to protect our technology infrastructure against damage from business continuity events that could have a significant disruptive effect on our operations. we could potentially lose client data or experience material adverse interruptions to our operations or delivery of services to our clients in a disaster recovery scenario. we regularly assess and take steps to improve upon our existing business continuity plans and key management succession. however, a disaster on a significant scale or affecting certain of our key operating areas within or across regions, or our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem, could materially interrupt our business operations and cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, damaged client relationships or legal liability. competitive risks each of the company's businesses operates in a highly competitive environment. if we fail to compete effectively, our business and results of operations will suffer. as a global professional services firm, the company experiences acute and continuous competition in each of its operating segments. our ability to compete successfully depends on a variety of factors, including our geographic reach, the sophistication and quality of our services, our pricing relative to competitors and our customers' option to self-insure or utilize internal resources instead of consultants. if we are unable to respond successfully to the competition we face, our business and results of operations will suffer. in addition, as a u.s. corporation with significant operations throughout the world, lower combined corporate tax rates in the countries where our competitors are located could impact our ability to compete with our peers abroad. in our risk and insurance services segment, we compete intensely against a wide range of other insurance and reinsurance brokerage firms that operate on a global, regional, national or local scale for both client business and employee talent. we compete as well with insurance and reinsurance companies that market and service their insurance products without the assistance of brokers or other market intermediaries, and with various other companies that provide risk-related services. the above competition is intensified by an industry trend toward a syndicated or distributed approach to the purchase of insurance and reinsurance brokerage services, whereby a client engages multiple brokers to service different portions of the client's account. in our consulting segment, we compete for business and employee talent with numerous independent consulting firms and organizations affiliated with accounting, information systems, technology and financial services firms around the world. the loss of key professionals could hurt our ability to retain existing client revenues and generate revenues from new business. 17 across all of our businesses, our personnel are crucial to developing and retaining the client relationships on which our revenues depend. it is therefore very important for us to retain significant revenue-producing employees and the key managerial and other professionals who support them. we face numerous challenges in this regard, including: the intense competition for talent in all of our businesses; the general mobility of professionals in our businesses; and the difficulties we may face in offering compensation of a type and amount (including equity-based compensation) sufficient to attract, motivate and retain valuable employees. losing employees who manage or support substantial client relationships or possess substantial experience or expertise could adversely affect our ability to secure and complete client engagements, which would adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, if any of our key professionals were to join an existing competitor or form a competing company, some of our clients could choose to use the services of that competitor instead of our services. consolidation in the industries that we serve could adversely affect our business. companies in the industries that we serve may seek to achieve economies of scale and other synergies by combining with or acquiring other companies. if two or more of our current clients merge or consolidate and combine their operations, it may decrease the amount of work that we perform for these clients. if one of our current clients merges or consolidates with a company that relies on another provider for its services, we may lose work from that client or lose the opportunity to gain additional work. the increased market power of larger companies could also increase pricing and competitive pressures on us. any of these possible results of industry consolidation could adversely affect our business. guy carpenter is especially susceptible to this risk given the limited number of insurance company clients and reinsurers in the marketplace. our businesses face rapid technological changes and our failure to adequately anticipate or respond to these changes could adversely affect our business and results of operations. to remain competitive in many of our business areas, we must identify the most current technologies and methodologies and integrate them into our service offerings. for example, guy carpenter's risk-modeling services are increasingly dependent on implementing advanced software and data-compilation tools and mercer's ability to price its outsourcing services competitively is highly dependent on the efficient and cost effective use of technology. if we do not make the correct technology choices or investments, or if our choices or investments are insufficiently prompt or cost-effective, our business and results of operations could suffer. acquisitions and dispositions we face risks when we acquire and dispose of businesses. we have a history of making acquisitions, including a total of 38 acquisitions in the period 2008-2011 for aggregate purchase consideration of $1.5 billion, in addition to marsh's acquisition of the brokerage operations of alexander forbes in south africa, botswana and namibia described more fully herein. we have also exited various businesses, including the sale of putnam investments trust ( putnam ) in august 2007 and the sale of kroll in the third quarter of 2010. we expect that acquisitions will continue to be a key part of our business strategy. our success in this regard will depend on our ability to identify and compete for appropriate acquisition candidates and to complete with favorable results the transactions we decide to pursue. while we intend that our acquisitions will improve our competitiveness and profitability, we cannot be certain that our past or future acquisitions will be accretive to earnings or otherwise meet our operational or strategic expectations. acquisitions involve special risks, including accounting, regulatory, compliance, information technology or human resources issues that could arise in connection with, or as a result of, the acquisition of the acquired company; the potential assumption of unanticipated liabilities and contingencies and difficulties in integrating acquired businesses; and acquired businesses may not achieve the levels of revenue, profit or productivity we anticipate or otherwise perform as we expect. in addition, if in the future, the performance of our reporting units or an acquired business varies from our 18 projections or assumptions, or estimates about future profitability of our reporting units or an acquired business change, the estimated fair value of our reporting units or an acquired business could change materially and could result in an impairment of goodwill and other acquisition-related intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet or in adjustments in contingent payment amounts. as of december 31, 2011, the company's consolidated balance sheet reflected $7.0 billion of goodwill and intangible assets, representing approximately 45% of the company's total consolidated assets and allocated by reporting segment as follows: risk and insurance services, $4.8 billion and consulting, $2.2 billion. given the significant size of the company's goodwill and intangible assets, an impairment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any given period. when we dispose of businesses we are subject to the risk, contractually agreed or otherwise, of post-transaction liabilities. for example, as described in note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included under part ii, item 8 of this report, we have retained certain contingent litigation liabilities relating to kroll. risks relating to our risk and insurance services segment our risk and insurance services segment, conducted through marsh and guy carpenter, represented 54% of the company's total operating segment revenue in 2011. our business in this segment is subject to particular risks. results in our risk and insurance services segment may be adversely affected by a general decline in economic activity. demand for many types of insurance and reinsurance generally rises and falls as economic growth expands or slows. this dynamic affects the level of commissions and fees generated by marsh and guy carpenter. to the extent our clients become adversely affected by declining business conditions, they may choose to limit their purchases of insurance and reinsurance coverage, as applicable, which would inhibit our ability to generate commission revenue; and may decide not to purchase our risk advisory services, which would inhibit our ability to generate fee revenue. moreover, insolvencies and combinations associated with an economic downturn, especially insolvencies and combinations in the insurance industry, could adversely affect our brokerage business through the loss of clients or by hampering our ability to place insurance and reinsurance business. guy carpenter is especially susceptible to this risk given the limited number of insurance company clients and reinsurers in the market place. volatility or declines in premiums and other market trends may significantly impede our ability to improve revenues and profitability. a significant portion of our risk and insurance services revenue consists of commissions paid to us out of the premiums that insurers and reinsurers charge our clients for coverage. our revenues and profitability are subject to change to the extent that premium rates fluctuate or trend in a particular direction. the potential for changes in premium rates is significant, due to the general phenomenon of pricing cyclicality in the commercial insurance and reinsurance markets. in addition to movements in premium rates, our ability to generate premium-based commission revenue may be challenged by the growing availability of alternative methods for clients to meet their risk-protection needs. this trend includes a greater willingness on the part of corporations to self-insure; the use of so-called captive insurers; and the advent of capital markets-based solutions to traditional insurance and reinsurance needs. further, the profitability of our risk and insurances services segment depends in part on ensuring that our professionals are compensated not only for insurance and reinsurance transactions, but for the increasing analytical services and advice that we provide. if we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate billing rates for all of our services, our margins and profitability could suffer. 19 risks relating to our consulting segment our consulting segment, conducted through mercer and oliver wyman group, represented 46% of our total operating segment revenue in 2011. our businesses in this segment is subject to particular risks. demand for our services might decrease for various reasons, including a general economic downturn, a decline in a client's or an industry's financial condition, or changes in government regulation. our consulting segment has historically achieved annual revenue growth. despite this history, however, global economic conditions over the past several years have resulted in negative impacts on businesses and financial institutions. many of our clients, including financial institutions, corporations, governmental entities and pension plans, have been reducing expenses, including amounts spent on consulting services. the evolving needs or financial circumstances of our clients may challenge our ability to increase revenues and profitability and reduce demand for our services. if the economy or markets in which we operate experience continued weakness at current levels or deteriorate further, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, demand for many of mercer's benefits services is affected by government regulation and tax rules, which drive our clients' needs for benefits-related services. for example, significant changes in government regulations affecting the value, use or delivery of benefits and human resources programs, including changes in regulations relating to health and welfare plans, defined contribution plans, or defined benefit plans, may adversely affect the demand for or profitability of mercer's services. factors impacting defined benefit pension plans and the services we provide relating to those plans could adversely affect mercer. mercer currently provides corporate, multi-employer and public clients with actuarial, consulting and administration services relating to defined benefit pension plans. the nature of our work is complex. our actuarial services involve numerous assumptions and estimates regarding future events, including interest rates used to discount future liabilities, estimated rates of return for a plan's assets, healthcare cost trends, salary projections and participants' life expectancies. our consulting services involve complex drafting and interpretation of trust deeds and other documentation governing pension plans. our administration services include calculating benefits within complicated pension structures. clients dissatisfied with our services have brought, and may bring, significant claims against us, particularly in the u.s. and the u.k. in addition, over the past several years, the funded status of defined benefit pension plans has declined markedly. a number of mercer's clients have frozen or curtailed their defined benefit plans and moved to defined contribution plans resulting in reduced revenue for mercer's retirement business. these developments could adversely affect mercer's business and operating results. our profitability may suffer if we are unable to achieve or maintain adequate utilization and pricing rates for our consultants. the profitability of our consulting businesses depends in part on ensuring that our consultants maintain adequate utilization rates (i.e., the percentage of our consultants' working hours devoted to billable activities). our utilization rates are affected by a number of factors, including: our ability to transition consultants promptly from completed projects to new assignments, and to engage newly hired consultants quickly in revenue-generating activities; our ability to continually secure new business engagements, particularly because a portion of our work is project-based rather than recurring in nature; our ability to forecast demand for our services and thereby maintain appropriate headcount in each of our geographies and workforces; our ability to manage attrition; unanticipated changes in the scope of client engagements; the potential for conflicts of interest that might require us to decline client engagements that we otherwise would have accepted; our need to devote time and resources to sales, training, professional development and 20 other non-billable activities; the potential disruptive impact of acquisitions and dispositions; and general economic conditions. the factors listed above, and therefore also our utilization rates for service personnel, have been adversely affected by global economic conditions over the past several years. if the utilization rate for our consulting professionals continues to decline, our profit margin and profitability would suffer. in addition, the profitability of our consulting businesses depends on the prices we are able to charge for our services. our pricing power is affected by a number of factors, including: clients' perception of our ability to add value through our services; market demand for the services we provide; our ability to develop new services and the introduction of new services by competitors; the pricing policies of our competitors; changes in the extent to which our clients develop in-house or other capabilities to perform the services that they might otherwise purchase from us; and general economic conditions. our pricing has also been adversely affected by global economic conditions over the past several years. if we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate billing rates for our services, our margins and profitability could suffer. our quarterly revenues and profitability may fluctuate significantly. quarterly variations in revenues and operating results at mercer and oliver wyman group may occur due to several factors. these include: the significance of client engagements commenced and completed during a quarter; the unpredictability of the timing and amount of success fees; the possibility that clients may decide to delay or terminate a current or anticipated project as a result of factors unrelated to our work product or progress; fluctuations in consultant hiring and utilization rates and clients' ability to terminate engagements without penalty; seasonality at mercer due to the impact of regulatory deadlines and other timing factors to which our clients are subject; the success of our strategic acquisitions, alliances or investments; macroeconomic factors such as changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and global securities markets, particularly in the case of mercer, where fees in certain business lines are derived from the value of assets under management (or administration) and declines in global securities markets could result in a decline in revenue and profitability of these business lines; and general economic conditions, since results of operations in our consulting businesses are directly affected by the levels of business activity of our clients, which in turn are affected by the level of economic activity in the industries and markets that they serve. a significant portion of total operating expenses at mercer and oliver wyman group is relatively fixed. therefore, a variation in the number of client assignments or in the timing of the initiation or the completion of client assignments can cause significant variations in quarterly operating results for these businesses. 21 if we are unable to collect our receivables or unbilled services, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. our business depends on our ability to successfully obtain payment from our clients of the amounts they owe us for work performed. we evaluate the financial condition of our clients and usually bill and collect on relatively short cycles. there is no guarantee that we will accurately assess the creditworthiness of our clients. macroeconomic conditions could also result in financial difficulties for our clients, and as a result could cause clients to delay payments to us, request modifications to their payment arrangements that could increase our receivables balance, or default on their payment obligations to us. timely collection of client balances depends on our ability to complete our contractual commitments and bill and collect our contracted revenues. if we are unable to meet our contractual requirements, we might experience delays in collection of and/or be unable to collect our client balances, and if this occurs, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. in addition, if we experience an increase in the time to bill and collect for our services, our cash flows could be adversely affected. 22 qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk market risk and credit risk certain of the company's revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and equity markets. interest rate risk and credit risk the company has historically managed its net exposure to interest rate changes by utilizing a mixture of variable and fixed rate borrowings to finance the company's asset base. in february 2011, the company entered into two 3.5-year interest rate swaps to hedge changes in the fair value of the first $250 million of its 5.375% senior notes due in 2014. under the terms of the swaps, the counter-parties will pay the company a fixed rate of 5.375% and the company will pay interest at a floating rate of three-month libor plus a fixed spread of 3.726%. the swaps are designated as fair value hedging instruments and are deemed to be perfectly effective in accordance with applicable accounting guidance. interest income generated from the company's cash investments as well as invested fiduciary funds will vary with the general level of interest rates. the company had the following investments subject to variable interest rates: (in millions of dollars) december 31, 2011 cash and cash equivalents invested in money market funds, certificates of deposit and time deposits $ 2,113 fiduciary cash and investments $ 4,082 based on the above balances, if short-term interest rates increased or decreased by 10%, or 12 basis points, over the course of the year, annual interest income, including interest earned on fiduciary funds, would increase or decrease by approximately $5 million. in addition to interest rate risk, our cash investments and fiduciary fund investments are subject to potential loss of value due to counterparty credit risk. to minimize this risk, the company and its subsidiaries invest pursuant to a board approved investment policy. the policy mandates the preservation of principal and liquidity and requires broad diversification with counterparty limits assigned based primarily on credit rating and type of investment. the company carefully monitors its cash and fiduciary fund investments and will further restrict the portfolio as appropriate to market conditions. the majority of cash and fiduciary fund investments are invested in short-term bank deposits and liquid money market funds. foreign currency risk the translated values of revenue and expense from the company's international operations are subject to fluctuations due to changes in currency exchange rates. the non-u.s. based revenue that is exposed to foreign exchange fluctuations is approximately 55% of total revenue. we periodically use forward contracts and options to limit foreign currency exchange rate exposure on net income and cash flows for specific, clearly defined transactions arising in the ordinary course of business. although the company has significant revenue generated in foreign locations which is subject to foreign exchange rate fluctuations, in most cases both the foreign currency revenue and expenses are in the functional currency of the foreign location. as such, the u.s. dollar translation of both the revenues and expenses, as well as the potentially offsetting movements of various currencies against the u.s. dollar, generally tends to mitigate the impact on net operating income of foreign currency risk. the company estimates that a 10% movement of major foreign currencies (euro, sterling, australian dollar and canadian dollar) in the same direction against the u.s. dollar that held constant over the course of the year would increase or decrease full year net operating income by approximately $50 million. 50 equity price risk the company holds investments in both public and private companies, certain private equity funds managed by stone point capital, as well as two private equity funds managed by companies unrelated to stone point capital that invests primarily in financial services companies. publicly traded investments of $20 million are classified as available for sale. non-publicly traded investments of $37 million are accounted for using the cost method and $119 million are accounted for using the equity method. the investments that are classified as available for sale or that are not publicly traded are subject to risk of changes in market value, which if determined to be other than temporary, could result in realized impairment losses. the company periodically reviews the carrying value of such investments to determine if any valuation adjustments are appropriate under the applicable accounting pronouncements. other a number of lawsuits and regulatory proceedings are pending. see note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. 51risk factors you should consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information presented in this report. these risks have the potential to materially adversely affect the company ' business, results of operations or financial condition. risks relating to the company generally legal and regulatory issues we are subject to significant uninsured exposures arising from errors and omissions claims. our operating companies provide numerous professional services, including the placement of insurance and the provision of consulting, actuarial and other services for corporate and public clients around the world. as a result of these activities, the company and its subsidiaries are subject to a significant number of errors and omissions, or e&amp;o claims, particularly in our marsh and mercer businesses in the u.s. and the u.k. in our risk and insurance services segment, such claims include allegations of damages arising from our failure to adequately place coverage or notify insurers of potential claims on behalf of clients. in our consulting segment, such claims include allegations of damages arising from our actuarial, consulting, pension administration and other services, which frequently involve (1) assumptions and estimates concerning contingent future events, (2) complex drafting and interpretation of documentation governing pension plans, and (3) calculating benefits within complicated pension structures. given the long-tail nature of professional liability claims, e&amp;o matters often relate to services provided by the company dating back many years. in each of our segments, e&amp;o claims seek damages, including punitive and treble damages, in amounts that could, if awarded, be significant and subject us to potential liability for monetary damages, negative publicity, reputational harm and to diversion of personnel and management resources. in establishing liabilities for errors and omissions claims in accordance with fasb asc subtopic no. 450-20 (contingencies - loss contingencies), the company utilizes case level reviews by inside and outside counsel, an internal actuarial analysis and other analysis to estimate potential losses. a liability is established when a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable. the liability is reviewed quarterly and adjusted as developments warrant. in many cases, the company has not recorded a liability, other than for legal fees to defend the claim, because we are unable, at the present time, to make a determination that a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable. nevertheless, given the unpredictability of e&amp;o claims and of litigation that could flow from them, it is possible that an adverse outcome in a particular 12 matter could have a material adverse effect on the company ' businesses, results of operations, financial condition or cash flow in a given quarterly or annual period. to the extent that expected losses exceed our deductible in any policy year, the company also records an asset for the amount that we expect to recover under any available third-party insurance programs. the company has varying levels of third-party insurance coverage, with policy limits and coverage terms varying significantly by policy year. further, as more fully described in note 15 to our consolidated financial statements included under part ii, item 8 of this report, we are subject to legal proceedings, regulatory investigations and other contingencies other than e&amp;o claims which, if determined unfavorably to us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. our internal systems and controls cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially applicable u.s. federal and state or foreign laws and regulations, and actions by regulatory authorities or changes in legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate may have a material adverse effect on our business. our activities are subject to extensive regulation under the laws of the united states and its various states, the european union and its member states, and the other jurisdictions in which we operate. for example, we are subject to regulation by foreign and domestic governments, regulatory agencies such as the sec in the united states and the fsa in the united kingdom, and self-regulatory organizations such as finra, as described further above under part i, item 1 - business (regulation) of this report. the foreign and u.s. laws and regulations that are applicable to our operations are complex and may increase the costs of regulatory compliance, limit or restrict the products or services we sell or subject our business to the possibility of regulatory actions or proceedings. these laws and regulations include trade sanctions laws such as the iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012, anti-corruption laws such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the uk bribery act 2010, local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, as well as import and export restrictions. as a publicly-traded company, we are subject to additional federal, state and other rules and regulations, including those required by the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act. compliance with the requirements of these laws and regulations may be costly and adversely affect our business. while we attempt to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that we, our employees, our consultants or our contractors are in full compliance with all applicable laws and regulations or interpretations of these laws and regulations at all times or that we will be able to comply with any future laws or regulations. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including those referred to above, we may be subject to investigations, criminal sanctions or civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, loss of an operating license or approval, increased scrutiny or oversight by regulatory authorities, the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in a particular business or redress to clients. the cost of compliance or the consequences of non-compliance could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations or financial condition. in addition, these matters could have a material adverse effect on the company by exposing us to negative publicity, reputational damage or harm to our client or employee relationships. in most jurisdictions, government regulatory authorities have the power to interpret or amend applicable laws and regulations, and have discretion to grant, renew and revoke various licenses and approvals we need to conduct our activities. such authorities may require the company to incur substantial increases in costs in order to comply with such laws and regulations. in some areas of our businesses, we act on the basis of our own or the industry ' interpretations of applicable laws or regulations, which may conflict from state to state or country to country. in the event those interpretations eventually prove different from those of regulatory authorities, we might be penalized or precluded from carrying on our previous activities. moreover, the laws and regulations to which we are subject may conflict among the various jurisdictions and countries in which we operate. the method by which insurance intermediaries are compensated has received substantial scrutiny in the past decade because of the potential for conflicts of interest. the amount of compensation that we receive from insurance companies, including in the form of consulting and other services, has increased 13 in the last two years. future changes in the regulatory environment may impact our ability to earn certain revenue streams. adverse regulatory developments regarding the forms of compensation that we earn could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. finally, government involvement in the insurance or reinsurance markets could displace insurance or reinsurance currently available from the private market and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. improper disclosure of personal data could result in legal liability or harm our reputation. in many jurisdictions, we are subject to laws relating to the collection, use, retention, security and transfer of our clients ' confidential and proprietary information and the personal information of our employees, our individual customers, and our clients ' employees and retirement and other benefit plan participants. in many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information among our affiliates. we maintain policies, procedures and technological safeguards designed to protect the security and privacy of this information. nonetheless, we cannot entirely eliminate the risk of improper access to or disclosure of personal information. such disclosure could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under our contracts, as well as laws and regulations, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. further, data privacy is subject to frequently changing laws, rules and regulations in the various jurisdictions and countries in which we operate. for example, a revision to the 1995 european union data protection directive is currently being considered by european legislative bodies that may include more stringent operation requirements and significant penalties for non-compliance. our failure to adhere to or successfully implement processes in response to changing legal or regulatory requirements in this area could result in legal liability or impairment to our reputation in the marketplace, as well as the general risks described above relating to our compliance systems and controls. financial risks our pension obligations may cause the company ' earnings and cash flows to fluctuate. the company has significant pension obligations to its current and former employees, totaling approximately $13.8 billion and related plan assets of approximately $12.2 billion at december 31, 2012. the company ' policy for funding its tax qualified defined benefit retirement plans is to contribute amounts at least sufficient to meet the funding requirements set forth by u.s. law and the laws of the non-u.s. jurisdictions in which the company offers defined benefit plans. in the u.s., contributions to the tax-qualified defined benefit plans are based on erisa guidelines. contribution rates for non-us plans are generally based on local funding practices and statutory requirements, which may differ from measurements under u.s. gaap. in the u.k., for example, contributions to defined benefit pension plans are determined through a negotiation process between the company and the plans' trustee that typically occurs every three years in conjunction with the actuarial valuation of the plans. this process is governed by u.k. pension regulations. the assumptions that result from the funding negotiations are different from those used for u.s. gaap and currently result in a lower funded status than under u.s. gaap. during 2012, the company contributed $124 million to its u.s. pension plans and $389 million to non-u.s. pension plans. as more fully described in note 8 to our consolidated financial statements, funding amounts will be impacted by future asset performance, the assumed interest rates we use to discount our pension liabilities, rates of inflation, mortality assumptions and other variables impacting the assets and/or liabilities of the plan. in accordance with asc topic no. 715, the company reflects the over- or under-funded amount of its pension plans as assets or liabilities, respectively. given the magnitude of our worldwide pension plans, variations in any of the preceding factors could cause significant fluctuation in our earnings as well as our equity from year to year and may result in increased levels of contributions to our pension plans, particularly in the u.k. our results of operations could be adversely affected by economic and political conditions and the effects of these conditions on our clients ' businesses and levels of business activity. global economic and political conditions affect our clients ' businesses and the markets they serve. these economic conditions may reduce demand for our services or depress pricing of those services, which 14 could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. changes in global economic conditions could also shift demand to services for which we do not have competitive advantages, and this could negatively affect the amount of business that we are able to obtain. should it become necessary for us to restructure our business, including reducing our work force, as a result of market conditions or other factors that reduce the demand for our products and services, our ability to execute our business strategy could be adversely affected. financial institution failures may cause us to incur increased expenses or make it more difficult either to utilize our existing debt capacity or otherwise obtain financing for our operations, investing activities (including the financing of any future acquisitions), or financing activities. our cash investments, including those held in a fiduciary capacity, are subject to general credit, liquidity, counterparty, market and interest rate risks that may be exacerbated by the difficulties faced by financial institution counterparties. if the banking system or the fixed income, credit or equity markets deteriorate, the values and liquidity of our investments could be adversely affected. concerns regarding the european debt crisis and market perceptions concerning the instability of the euro could adversely affect the company's operating results as well as the value of the company's euro-denominated assets. concerns persist regarding the ability of certain eurozone countries to service their debt obligations. as a result, a number of these countries have undertaken a variety of actions, such as cutting spending and raising taxes, designed to ease their future debt burdens. a potential consequence may be stagnant growth, or even recession, in the eurozone economies and beyond. also, the stability of the euro and its viability as a single currency is being called into question. in the future, certain countries may find it advantageous to leave the eurozone and reintroduce their local currencies to retain better control over their economic situations. a more extreme outcome is the complete dissolution of the euro. any of these developments could lead to further contraction in the eurozone economies, adversely affecting our operating results in the region. the company may also face increased credit risk as our clients and financial institution counterparties in the region find themselves with reduced resources to meet their obligations. finally, the value of the company's assets held in the eurozone, including cash holdings, will decline if the currency devalues. our significant non-u.s. operations expose us to exchange rate fluctuations and various risks that could impact our business. we are subject to exchange rate risk because some of our subsidiaries receive revenue other than in their functional currencies, and because we must translate the financial results of our foreign subsidiaries into u.s. dollars. our u.s. operations earn revenue and incur expenses primarily in u.s. dollars. in certain jurisdictions, however, our risk and insurance services operations generate revenue in a number of different currencies, but expenses are almost entirely incurred in local currency. due to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, we are subject to economic exposure as well as currency translation exposure on the profits of our operations. exchange rate risk could have a significant impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. increased counterparty risk and changes in interest rates could reduce the value of our investment portfolio and adversely affect our financial results. during times of stress in the banking industry counterparty risk can quickly escalate, potentially resulting in substantial trading and investment losses for corporate and other investors. in addition, we may incur investment losses as a result of unusual and unpredictable market developments, and we may continue to experience reduced investment earnings if the yields on investments deemed to be low risk remain low. credit rating downgrades would increase our financing costs and could subject us to operational risk. currently, the company's senior debt is rated baa2 by moody's and bbb by s&amp;p. these ratings are the next-to-lowest investment grade rating for each of moody's and s&amp;p. ratings from both s&amp;p and moody's currently carry a stable outlook. 15 if we need to raise capital in the future (for example, in order to fund maturing debt obligations or finance acquisitions or other initiatives), a credit rating downgrade would increase our financing costs, and could limit our access to financing sources. further, we believe that a downgrade to a rating below investment-grade could result in greater operational risks through increased operating costs and increased competitive pressures. we are a holding company and, therefore, may not be able to receive dividends or other distributions in needed amounts from our subsidiaries. the company is organized as a holding company, a legal entity separate and distinct from our operating subsidiaries. as a holding company without significant operations of our own, we are dependent upon dividends and other payments from our operating subsidiaries to meet our obligations for paying principal and interest on outstanding debt obligations, for paying dividends to stockholders and for corporate expenses. in the event our operating subsidiaries are unable to pay dividends and other payments to the company, we may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on common stock. further, the company derives a significant portion of its revenue and operating profit from operating subsidiaries located outside the u.s. since the majority of financing obligations as well as dividends to stockholders are made from the u.s., it is important to be able to access cash generated outside the u.s. funds from the company's operating subsidiaries outside the u.s. are regularly repatriated to the u.s. via stockholder distributions and intercompany financings. a number of factors may arise that could limit our ability to repatriate funds or make repatriation cost prohibitive, including, but not limited to, foreign exchange rates and tax-related costs. in the event we are unable to generate cash from our operating subsidiaries for any of the reasons discussed above, our overall liquidity could deteriorate. our quarterly revenues and profitability may fluctuate significantly. quarterly variations in revenues and operating results may occur due to several factors. these include: the significance of client engagements commenced and completed during a quarter; the possibility that clients may decide to delay or terminate a current or anticipated project as a result of factors unrelated to our work product or progress; fluctuations in hiring and utilization rates and clients ' ability to terminate engagements without penalty; seasonality due to the impact of regulatory deadlines, policy renewals and other timing factors to which our clients are subject; the success of our strategic acquisitions, alliances or investments; macroeconomic factors such as changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and global securities markets, particularly in the case of mercer, where fees in certain business lines are derived from the value of assets under management (or administration), and declines in global securities markets; and general economic conditions, since results of operations are directly affected by the levels of business activity of our clients, which in turn are affected by the level of economic activity in the industries and markets that they serve. a significant portion of our total operating expenses is relatively fixed in the short term. therefore, a variation in the number of client assignments or in the timing of the initiation or the completion of client assignments can cause significant variations in quarterly operating results for these businesses. international operations we are exposed to multiple risks associated with the global nature of our operations. we do business worldwide. in 2012, 56% of the company ' total revenue was generated from operations outside the united states, and over one-half of our employees are located outside the united states. we expect to expand our non-u.s. operations further. the geographic breadth of our activities subjects us to significant legal, economic, operational, market, compliance and reputational risks. these include, among others, risks relating to: 16 economic and political conditions in foreign countries, including the european debt crisis; unexpected increases in taxes or changes in u.s. or foreign tax laws; withholding or other taxes that foreign governments may impose on the payment of dividends or other remittances to us from our non-u.s. subsidiaries; potential transfer pricing-related tax exposures that may result from the allocation of u.s.-based costs that benefit our non-u.s. businesses; potential conflicts of interest that may arise as we expand the scope of our businesses and our client base; international hostilities, terrorist activities, natural disasters and infrastructure disruptions; local investment or other financial restrictions that foreign governments may impose; potential costs and difficulties in complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations (including tax systems) administered by foreign government agencies, some of which may conflict with u.s. or other sources of law; potential costs and difficulties in complying, or monitoring compliance, with foreign and u.s. laws and regulations that are applicable to our operations abroad, including trade sanctions laws such as the iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012, anti-corruption laws such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the uk bribery act 2010, local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, as well as import and export restrictions; limitations or restrictions that foreign or u.s. legislative bodies or regulators may impose on the products or services we sell or the methods by which we sell our products and services; limitations that foreign governments may impose on the conversion of currency or the payment of dividends or other remittances to us from our non-u.s. subsidiaries; the length of payment cycles and potential difficulties in collecting accounts receivable, particularly in light of the increasing number of insolvencies in the current economic environment and the numerous bankruptcy laws to which they are subject; engaging and relying on third parties to perform services on behalf of the company; and potential difficulties in monitoring employees in geographically dispersed locations. our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem could cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as an earthquake, hurricane, terrorist attack, pandemic, security breach, cyber attack, power loss, telecommunications failure or other natural or man-made disaster, our continued success will depend, in part, on the availability of our personnel, our office facilities, and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. in such an event, our operational size, the multiple locations from which we operate, and our existing back-up systems would provide us with an important advantage. nevertheless, we could still experience near-term operational challenges with regard to particular areas of our operations, such as key executive officers or personnel. our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our technology infrastructure against damage from business continuity events that could have a significant disruptive effect on our operations. we could potentially lose client data or experience material adverse interruptions to our operations or delivery of services to our clients in a disaster recovery scenario. we regularly assess and take steps to improve upon our existing business continuity plans and key management succession. however, a disaster on a significant scale or affecting certain of our key operating areas within or across regions, or our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem, could materially interrupt our business operations and cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, damaged client relationships or legal liability. competitive risks 17 each of the company ' businesses operates in a highly competitive environment. if we fail to compete effectively, our business and results of operations will suffer. as a global professional services firm, the company faces acute and continuous competition in each of its operating segments. our ability to compete successfully depends on a variety of factors, including our geographic reach, the sophistication and quality of our services, our pricing relative to competitors and our customers ' option to self-insure or utilize internal resources instead of consultants. if we are unable to respond successfully to the competition we face, our business and results of operations will suffer. in addition, given the global breadth of the company ' operations, the company derives a significant portion of its revenue and operating profit from operating subsidiaries located outside the united states. funds from the company ' operating subsidiaries located outside the u.s. are regularly repatriated to the united states out of annual earnings to pay dividends to stockholders, fund share repurchases and for other corporate purposes. the company ' consolidated tax rate is higher than a number of its key competitors that are domiciled outside the united states where corporate tax rates are lower than the u.s. statutory tax rate. the consolidated tax rate at which our earnings are taxed could have an adverse impact on our ability to compete with our peers. in our risk and insurance services segment, we compete intensely against a wide range of other insurance and reinsurance brokerage firms that operate on a global, regional, national or local scale for both client business and employee talent. we compete as well with insurance and reinsurance companies that market and service their insurance products without the assistance of brokers or other market intermediaries, and with various other companies that provide risk-related services. the above competition is intensified by an industry trend toward a syndicated or distributed approach to the purchase of insurance and reinsurance brokerage services, whereby a client engages multiple brokers to service different portions of the client ' account. in our consulting segment, we compete for business and employee talent with numerous consulting firms and organizations affiliated with accounting, information systems, technology and financial services firms around the world. the loss of key professionals could hurt our ability to retain existing client revenues and generate revenues from new business. across all of our businesses, our colleagues are critical to developing and retaining the client relationships on which our revenues depend. it is therefore very important for us to retain significant revenue-producing employees and the key managerial and other professionals who support them. we face numerous challenges in this regard, including the intense competition for talent in all of our businesses and the general mobility of professionals in our businesses. losing employees who manage or support substantial client relationships or possess substantial experience or expertise could adversely affect our ability to secure and complete client engagements, which would adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, if any of our key professionals were to join an existing competitor or form a competing company, some of our clients could choose to use the services of that competitor instead of our services. consolidation in the industries we serve could adversely affect our business. companies in the industries that we serve may seek to achieve economies of scale and other synergies by combining with or acquiring other companies. if two or more of our current clients merge or consolidate and combine their operations, it may decrease the amount of work that we perform for these clients. if one of our current clients merges or consolidates with a company that relies on another provider for its services, we may lose work from that client or lose the opportunity to gain additional work. any of these possible results of industry consolidation could adversely affect our business. guy carpenter is especially susceptible to this risk given the limited number of insurance company clients and reinsurers in the marketplace. our businesses face rapid technological changes and our failure to adequately anticipate or respond to these changes or to successfully implement strategic initiatives could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 18 to remain competitive in many of our business areas, we must identify the most current technologies and methodologies and integrate them into our service offerings. in addition, we have a number of strategic initiatives involving investments in technology systems and infrastructure to support our growth strategy. in addition to new platforms and systems, we are deploying new processes and many of our colleagues across the business are changing the way they perform certain roles to capture efficiencies. if we do not keep up with technological changes or execute well on our strategic initiatives, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted. acquisitions and dispositions we face risks when we acquire and dispose of businesses. we have a history of making acquisitions, including a total of 41 acquisitions in the period 2009-2012 for aggregate purchase consideration of $1.7 billion. we have also exited various businesses, including the sale of putnam investments trust ( putnam ) in august 2007 and the sale of kroll in 2010. we expect that acquisitions will continue to be a key part of our business strategy. our success in this regard will depend on our ability to identify and compete for appropriate acquisition candidates and to complete with favorable results the transactions we decide to pursue. while we intend that our acquisitions will improve our competitiveness and profitability, we cannot be certain that our past or future acquisitions will be accretive to earnings or otherwise meet our operational or strategic expectations. acquisitions involve special risks, including accounting, regulatory, compliance, information technology or human resources issues that could arise in connection with, or as a result of, the acquisition of the acquired company; the potential assumption of unanticipated liabilities and contingencies and difficulties in integrating acquired businesses; and acquired businesses may not achieve the levels of revenue, profit or productivity we anticipate or otherwise perform as we expect. in addition, if in the future, the performance of our reporting units or an acquired business varies from our projections or assumptions, or estimates about future profitability of our reporting units or an acquired business change, the estimated fair value of our reporting units or an acquired business could change materially and could result in an impairment of goodwill and other acquisition-related intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet or in adjustments in contingent payment amounts. as of december 31, 2012, the company ' consolidated balance sheet reflected $7.3 billion of goodwill and intangible assets, representing approximately 45% of the company ' total consolidated assets and allocated by reporting segment as follows: risk and insurance services, $5.1 billion and consulting, $2.2 billion. given the significant size of the company ' goodwill and intangible assets, an impairment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any given period. when we dispose of businesses we are subject to the risk, contractually agreed or otherwise, of post-transaction liabilities. for example, as described in note 15 to our consolidated financial statements included under part ii, item 8 of this report, we have retained certain contingent litigation liabilities relating to kroll. risks relating to our risk and insurance services segment our risk and insurance services segment, conducted through marsh and guy carpenter, represented 55% of the company ' total revenue in 2012. our business in this segment is subject to particular risks. results in our risk and insurance services segment may be adversely affected by a general decline in economic activity. demand for many types of insurance and reinsurance generally rises and falls as economic growth expands or slows. this dynamic affects the level of commissions and fees generated by marsh and guy carpenter. to the extent our clients become adversely affected by declining business conditions, they may choose to limit their purchases of insurance and reinsurance coverage, as applicable, which would inhibit our ability to generate commission revenue; and may decide not to purchase our risk advisory services, which would inhibit our ability to generate fee revenue. moreover, insolvencies and combinations associated with an economic downturn, especially insolvencies and combinations in the insurance industry, could adversely affect our brokerage business through the loss of clients or by hampering our ability to place insurance and reinsurance business. guy carpenter is especially 19 susceptible to this risk given the limited number of insurance company clients and reinsurers in the market place. volatility or declines in premiums and other market trends may significantly impede our ability to improve revenues and profitability. a significant portion of our risk and insurance services revenue consists of commissions paid to us out of the premiums that insurers and reinsurers charge our clients for coverage. our revenues and profitability are subject to change to the extent that premium rates fluctuate or trend in a particular direction. the potential for changes in premium rates is significant, due to the general phenomenon of pricing cyclicality in the commercial insurance and reinsurance markets. in addition to movements in premium rates, our ability to generate premium-based commission revenue may be challenged by the growing availability of alternative methods for clients to meet their risk-protection needs. this trend includes a greater willingness on the part of corporations to self-insure; the use of so-called captive insurers; and the advent of capital markets-based solutions to traditional insurance and reinsurance needs. further, the profitability of our risk and insurances services segment depends in part on our ability to be compensated not only for insurance and reinsurance transactions, but for the increasing analytical services and advice that we provide. if we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate billing rates for all of our services, our margins and profitability could suffer. risks relating to our consulting segment our consulting segment, conducted through mercer and oliver wyman group, represented 45% of our total revenue in 2012. our businesses in this segment are subject to particular risks. demand for our services might decrease for various reasons, including a general economic downturn, a decline in a client ' or an industry ' financial condition, or changes in government regulation. our consulting segment has historically achieved annual revenue growth. despite this history, however, global economic conditions over the past several years have resulted in negative impacts on businesses and financial institutions. many of our clients, including financial institutions, corporations, governmental entities and pension plans, have been reducing expenses, including amounts spent on consulting services. the evolving needs or financial circumstances of our clients may challenge our ability to increase revenues and profitability and reduce demand for our services. if the economy or markets in which we operate experience continued weakness at current levels or deteriorate further, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, demand for many of mercer ' benefits services is affected by government regulation and tax rules, which drive our clients ' needs for benefits-related services. for example, significant changes in government regulations affecting the value, use or delivery of benefits and human resources programs, including changes in regulations relating to health and welfare plans, defined contribution plans, or defined benefit plans, may adversely affect the demand for or profitability of mercer ' services. factors impacting defined benefit pension plans and the services we provide relating to those plans could adversely affect mercer. mercer currently provides corporate, multi-employer and public clients with actuarial, consulting and administration services relating to defined benefit pension plans. the nature of our work is complex. our actuarial services involve numerous assumptions and estimates regarding future events, including interest rates used to discount future liabilities, estimated rates of return for a plan's assets, healthcare cost trends, salary projections and participants' life expectancies. our consulting services involve complex drafting and interpretation of trust deeds and other documentation governing pension plans. our administration services include calculating benefits within complicated pension plan structures. clients dissatisfied with our services have brought, and may bring, significant claims against us, particularly in the u.s. and the u.k. in addition, a number of mercer's clients have frozen or curtailed their defined benefit plans and have moved to defined contribution plans resulting in reduced revenue for mercer's retirement business. these developments could adversely affect mercer's business and operating results. 20 our profitability may suffer if we are unable to achieve or maintain adequate utilization and pricing rates for our consultants. the profitability of our consulting businesses depends in part on ensuring that our consultants maintain adequate utilization rates (i.e., the percentage of our consultants ' working hours devoted to billable activities). our utilization rates are affected by a number of factors, including: our ability to transition consultants promptly from completed projects to new assignments, and to engage newly-hired consultants quickly in revenue-generating activities; our ability to continually secure new business engagements, particularly because a portion of our work is project-based rather than recurring in nature; our ability to forecast demand for our services and thereby maintain appropriate headcount in each of our geographies and workforces; our ability to manage attrition; unanticipated changes in the scope of client engagements; the potential for conflicts of interest that might require us to decline client engagements that we otherwise would have accepted; our need to devote time and resources to sales, training, professional development and other non-billable activities; the potential disruptive impact of acquisitions and dispositions; and general economic conditions. if the utilization rate for our consulting professionals declines, our profit margin and profitability may suffer. in addition, the profitability of our consulting businesses depends on the prices we are able to charge for our services. our pricing power is affected by a number of factors, including: clients ' perception of our ability to add value through our services; market demand for the services we provide; our ability to develop new services and the introduction of new services by competitors; the pricing policies of our competitors; changes in the extent to which our clients develop in-house or other capabilities to perform the services that they might otherwise purchase from us; and general economic conditions. if we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate billing rates for our services, our margins and profitability could suffer. if we are unable to collect our receivables or unbilled services, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. our business depends on our ability to successfully obtain payment from our clients of the amounts they owe us for work performed. we typically bill and collect on relatively short cycles. there is no guarantee that we will accurately assess the creditworthiness of our clients. macroeconomic conditions could also result in financial difficulties for our clients, and as a result could cause clients to delay payments to us, request modifications to their payment arrangements that could increase our receivables balance, or default on their payment obligations to us. timely collection of client balances depends on our ability to complete our contractual commitments and bill and collect our contracted revenues. if we are unable to meet our contractual requirements, we might experience delays in collection of and/or be unable to collect our client balances, and if this occurs, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. in addition, if we experience an increase in the time to bill and collect for our services, our cash flows could be adversely affected. 21 qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk market risk and credit risk certain of the company's revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and equity markets. interest rate risk and credit risk the company has historically managed its net exposure to interest rate changes by utilizing a mixture of variable and fixed rate borrowings to finance the company's asset base. in february 2011, the company entered into two 3.5-year interest rate swaps to hedge changes in the fair value of the first $250 million of its 5.375% senior notes due in 2014. under the terms of the swaps, the counter-parties will pay the company a fixed rate of 5.375% and the company will pay interest at a floating rate of three-month libor plus a fixed spread of 3.726%. the swaps are designated as fair value hedging instruments and are deemed to be perfectly effective in accordance with applicable accounting guidance. interest income generated from the company's cash investments as well as invested fiduciary funds will vary with the general level of interest rates. the company had the following investments subject to variable interest rates: (in millions of dollars) december 31, 2012 cash and cash equivalents invested in money market funds, certificates of deposit and time deposits $2,301 fiduciary cash and investments $3,992 based on the above balances, if short-term interest rates increased or decreased by 10%, or 10 basis points, over the course of the year, annual interest income, including interest earned on fiduciary funds, would increase or decrease by approximately $4 million. in addition to interest rate risk, our cash investments and fiduciary fund investments are subject to potential loss of value due to counter-party credit risk. to minimize this risk, the company and its subsidiaries invest pursuant to a board approved investment policy. the policy mandates the preservation of principal and liquidity and requires broad diversification with counter-party limits assigned based primarily on credit rating and type of investment. the company carefully monitors its cash and fiduciary fund investments and will further restrict the portfolio as appropriate to market conditions. the majority of cash and fiduciary fund investments are invested in short-term bank deposits and liquid money market funds. foreign currency risk the translated values of revenue and expense from the company's international operations are subject to fluctuations due to changes in currency exchange rates. the non-u.s. based revenue that is exposed to foreign exchange fluctuations is approximately 56% of total revenue. we periodically use forward contracts and options to limit foreign currency exchange rate exposure on net income and cash flows for specific, clearly defined transactions arising in the ordinary course of business. although the company has significant revenue generated in foreign locations which is subject to foreign exchange rate fluctuations, in most cases both the foreign currency revenue and expenses are in the functional currency of the foreign location. as such, the u.s. dollar translation of both the revenues and expenses, as well as the potentially offsetting movements of various currencies against the u.s. dollar, generally tends to mitigate the impact on net operating income of foreign currency risk. the company estimates that a 10% movement of major foreign currencies (euro, sterling, australian dollar and canadian dollar) in the same direction against the u.s. dollar that held constant over the course of the year would increase or decrease full year operating income by approximately $45 million. 46 equity price risk the company holds investments in both public and private companies, and certain private equity funds that invest primarily in financial services companies. non-publicly traded investments of $16 million are accounted for using the cost method and $131 million are accounted for using the equity method. the investments that are classified as available for sale or that are not publicly traded are subject to risk of changes in market value, which if determined to be other than temporary, could result in realized impairment losses. the company periodically reviews the carrying value of such investments to determine if any valuation adjustments are appropriate under the applicable accounting pronouncements. other a number of lawsuits and regulatory proceedings are pending. see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. 47risk factors you should consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information presented in this report. these risks have the potential to materially adversely affect the company ' business, results of operations or financial condition. risks relating to the company generally legal and regulatory issues we are subject to significant uninsured exposures arising from errors and omissions claims. our operating companies provide numerous professional services, including the placement of insurance and the provision of consulting, actuarial and other services for corporate and public clients around the world. as a result of these activities, the company and its subsidiaries are subject to a significant number of errors and omissions, or e&amp;o claims. in our risk and insurance services segment, such claims include allegations of damages arising from our failure to adequately place coverage or notify insurers of potential claims on behalf of clients. in our consulting segment, such claims include allegations of damages arising from our actuarial, consulting, investments, pension administration and other services, which frequently involve (1) assumptions and estimates concerning contingent future events, (2) drafting and interpretation of complex documentation governing pension plans, (3) calculating benefits within complicated pension structures and (4) the provision of investment advice and management of client assets. given the long-tail nature of professional liability claims, e&amp;o matters often relate to services provided by the company dating back many years. e&amp;o claims may seek damages, including punitive and treble damages, in amounts that could, if awarded, be significant and subject us to liability for 11 monetary damages, negative publicity, and reputational harm and divert personnel and management resources. the company has varying levels of third-party insurance coverage, with policy limits and coverage terms varying significantly by policy year. in establishing liabilities for e&amp;o claims in accordance with fasb asc subtopic no. 450-20 (contingencies - loss contingencies), the company utilizes case level reviews by inside and outside counsel, an internal actuarial analysis and other analysis to estimate potential losses. a liability is established when a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable. the liability is reviewed quarterly and adjusted as developments warrant. in many cases, the company has not recorded a liability, other than for legal fees to defend the claim, because we are unable, at the present time, to make a determination that a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable. nevertheless, given the unpredictability of e&amp;o claims and of litigation that could flow from them, it is possible that an adverse outcome in a particular matter could have a material adverse effect on the company ' business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flow in a given quarterly or annual period. further, as more fully described in note 15 to our consolidated financial statements included under part ii, item 8 of this report, we are subject to legal proceedings, regulatory investigations and other contingencies other than e&amp;o claims which, if determined unfavorably to us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. we cannot guarantee that we are or will be in compliance with all current and potentially applicable u.s. federal and state or foreign laws and regulations, and actions by regulatory authorities or changes in legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate may have a material adverse effect on our business. our activities are subject to extensive regulation under the laws of the united states and its various states, the european union and its member states, and the other jurisdictions in which we operate. for example, we are subject to regulation by foreign and domestic governments, regulatory agencies such as the sec in the united states and the fca in the united kingdom, and self-regulatory organizations such as finra, as further described above under part i, item 1 - business (regulation) of this report. the foreign and u.s. laws and regulations that are applicable to our operations are complex and may increase the costs of regulatory compliance, limit or restrict the products or services we sell or subject our business to the possibility of regulatory actions or proceedings. these laws and regulations include trade sanctions laws relating to countries such as cuba, iran, sudan and syria, anti-corruption laws such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act 2010 and similar local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, the foreign account tax compliance provisions of the hiring incentives to restore employment act in the u.s., as well as import and export restrictions. we are subject to additional federal, state and other rules and regulations, including those required by the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act. compliance with the requirements of these laws and regulations, among others, may be costly and adversely affect our business. while we attempt to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that we, our employees, our consultants or our contractors are in full compliance with all applicable laws and regulations or interpretations of these laws and regulations at all times or that we will be able to comply with any future laws or regulations. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including those referred to above, we may be subject to investigations, criminal sanctions or civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, loss of an operating license or approval, increased scrutiny or oversight by regulatory authorities, the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in a particular business or redress to clients. the cost of compliance or the consequences of non-compliance could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. in addition, these matters could have a material adverse effect on the company by exposing us to negative publicity and reputational damage or by harming our client or employee relationships. in most jurisdictions, government regulatory authorities have the power to interpret or amend applicable laws and regulations, and have discretion to grant, renew and revoke various licenses and approvals we need to conduct our activities. such authorities may require the company to incur substantial increases in costs in order to comply with such laws and regulations. in some areas of our businesses, we act on the basis of our own or the industry ' interpretations of applicable laws or regulations, which may conflict from 12 state to state or country to country. in the event those interpretations eventually prove different from the interpretations of regulatory authorities, we might be penalized or precluded from carrying on our previous activities. moreover, the laws and regulations to which we are subject may conflict among the various jurisdictions and countries in which we operate, which could increase the likelihood of our businesses being non-compliant in one or more jurisdictions. the method by which insurance intermediaries are compensated has received substantial scrutiny from regulators in the past because of the potential for conflicts of interest. the potential for conflicts of interest arises when an intermediary is compensated by two parties in connection with the same or similar transactions. the vast majority of the compensation that marsh receives is in the form of retail commissions and fees. the amount of compensation that we receive from insurance companies, separate from retail commissions and fees, has increased substantially in the last several years. this compensation includes, among other things, payment for consulting and analytics services provided to insurers; administrative and other services provided to or on behalf of insurers (including services relating to the administration and management of quota shares, panels and other facilities in which insurers participate); and contingent commissions in parts of our operations. future changes in the regulatory environment may impact our ability to collect these revenue streams. in addition, these revenues present potential regulatory, litigation and reputational risks that may arise from alleged conflicts of interest or allegations under antitrust, competition and other laws. adverse regulatory, legal or other developments regarding these revenues could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition, expose us to negative publicity and reputational damage and harm our client, insurer or other relationships. finally, government involvement in the insurance or reinsurance markets could displace insurance or reinsurance currently available from the private market and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. improper disclosure of confidential, personal or proprietary data, whether due to human error, misuse of information by employees or vendors, or as a result of cyberattacks, could result in regulatory scrutiny, legal liability or reputational harm, and could have an adverse effect on our business or operations. we maintain confidential, personal and proprietary information relating to our company, our employees and our clients. this information includes personally identifiable information, protected health information and financial information. in many jurisdictions, particularly in the u.s. and the european union, we are subject to laws and regulations relating to the collection, use, retention, security and transfer of this information. these laws apply to transfers of information among our affiliates, as well as to transactions we enter into with third-party vendors. data privacy is subject to frequently changing laws, rules and regulations in the various jurisdictions and countries in which we operate. there is a growing body of international data protection laws, which, in part, includes security breach notification obligations, more stringent operational requirements and significant penalties for non-compliance. in addition, legislators in the u.s. are proposing new and more robust cybersecurity legislation in light of the recent broad-based cyberattacks at a number of companies. these and similar initiatives around the world would add to our it and compliance costs. our failure to adhere to, or successfully implement processes in response to, changing legal or regulatory requirements in this area could result in legal liability or damage to our reputation in the marketplace, as well as the general risks described herein relating to our compliance systems and controls. we maintain policies, procedures and technical safeguards designed to protect the security and privacy of confidential, personal and proprietary information. nonetheless, we cannot eliminate the risk of human error or inadequate safeguards against employee or vendor malfeasance or cyberattacks that could result in improper access to or misuse of confidential, personal or proprietary information. in addition, significant costs are involved with maintaining system safeguards for our technology infrastructure. if we are unable to efficiently and effectively maintain and upgrade our system safeguards, including in connection with the integration of acquisitions, we may incur unexpected costs and certain of our systems may become more vulnerable to unauthorized access. 13 with respect to our commercial arrangements with third-party vendors, we have processes designed to require third-party it outsourcing, offsite storage and other vendors to agree to maintain certain standards with respect to the storage, protection and transfer of confidential, personal and proprietary information. however, we remain at risk of a data breach due to the intentional or unintentional non-compliance by a vendor's employee or agent, the breakdown of a vendor's data protection processes, or a cyberattack on a vendor's information systems. we have experienced data incidents, including breaches, resulting from human error as well as attempts at unauthorized access to our systems, which to date have not had a material impact on our business or operations. in the future, the cost associated with human error, the misuse of information by employees or vendors, or a major cyberattack related to our systems (including costs relating to notification of data security breaches and costs of credit monitoring services) could be substantial. furthermore, the use of mobile technologies and social media by employees and third parties, and the speed at which information can be widely distributed, increases the risks associated with the intentional or unintentional distribution of confidential, personal or proprietary information. improper access to or disclosure of confidential, personal or proprietary information could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under our contracts, as well as laws and regulations, resulting in increased legal and other costs, disruption of our operations and loss of revenue. financial risks our pension obligations may cause the company ' earnings and cash flows to fluctuate. the company has significant pension obligations to its current and former employees, totaling approximately $13.5 billion and related plan assets of approximately $13.6 billion at december 31, 2013. the company ' policy for funding its tax qualified defined benefit retirement plans is to contribute amounts at least sufficient to meet the funding requirements set forth by u.s. law and the laws of the non-u.s. jurisdictions in which the company offers defined benefit plans. in the u.s., contributions to the tax-qualified defined benefit plans are based on erisa guidelines. contribution rates for non-u.s. plans are generally based on local funding practices and statutory requirements, which may differ from measurements under u.s. gaap. in the u.k., for example, contributions to defined benefit pension plans are determined through a negotiation process between the company and the plans' trustee that typically occurs every three years in conjunction with the actuarial valuation of the plans. this process is governed by u.k. pension regulations. the assumptions that result from the funding negotiations are different from those used for u.s. gaap and currently result in a lower funded status than under u.s. gaap. during 2013, the company contributed $26 million to its u.s. pension plans and $620 million to non-u.s. pension plans. as more fully described in note 8 to our consolidated financial statements, funding amounts will be impacted by future asset performance, the assumed interest rates we use to discount our pension liabilities, rates of inflation, mortality assumptions and other variables impacting the assets and/or liabilities of the plan. in accordance with asc topic no. 715, the company reflects the over- or under-funded amount of its pension plans as assets or liabilities, respectively. given the magnitude of our worldwide pension plans, variations in any of the preceding factors could cause significant fluctuation in our earnings as well as our equity from year to year and may result in increased levels of contributions to our pension plans, particularly in the u.k. our results of operations could be adversely affected by economic and political conditions and the effects of these conditions on our clients ' businesses and levels of business activity. global economic and political conditions affect our clients ' businesses and the markets they serve. these economic conditions may reduce demand for our services or depress pricing of those services, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. changes in global economic conditions could also shift demand to services for which we do not have competitive advantages, and this could negatively affect the amount of business that we are able to obtain. should it become necessary for us to restructure our business, including reducing our work force, as a result of market conditions or other factors that reduce the demand for our products and services, our ability to execute our business strategy could be adversely affected. 14 financial institution failures may cause us to incur increased expenses or make it more difficult either to utilize our existing debt capacity or otherwise obtain financing for our operations and investing activities (including the financing of any future acquisitions). our cash investments, including those held in a fiduciary capacity, are subject to general credit, liquidity, counterparty, market and interest rate risks that may be exacerbated by the difficulties faced by financial institution counterparties. if the banking system or the fixed income, credit or equity markets deteriorate, the values and liquidity of our investments could be adversely affected. our significant non-u.s. operations expose us to exchange rate fluctuations and various risks that could impact our business. we are subject to exchange rate risk because some of our subsidiaries receive revenue other than in their functional currencies, and because we must translate the financial results of our foreign subsidiaries into u.s. dollars. our u.s. operations earn revenue and incur expenses primarily in u.s. dollars. in certain jurisdictions, however, our risk and insurance services operations generate revenue in a number of different currencies, but expenses are almost entirely incurred in local currency. due to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, we are subject to economic exposure as well as currency translation exposure on the profits of our operations. exchange rate risk could have a significant impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. increased counterparty risk and changes in interest rates could reduce the value of our investment portfolio and adversely affect our financial results. during times of stress in the banking industry, counterparty risk can quickly escalate, potentially resulting in substantial trading and investment losses for corporate and other investors. in addition, we may incur investment losses as a result of unusual and unpredictable market developments, and we may continue to experience reduced investment earnings if the yields on investments deemed to be low risk remain at or near their current low levels. we are a holding company and, therefore, may not be able to receive dividends or other distributions in needed amounts from our subsidiaries. the company is organized as a holding company, a legal entity separate and distinct from our operating subsidiaries. as a holding company without significant operations of our own, we are dependent upon dividends and other payments from our operating subsidiaries to meet our obligations for paying principal and interest on outstanding debt obligations, for paying dividends to stockholders and for corporate expenses. in the event our operating subsidiaries are unable to pay sufficient dividends and other payments to the company, we may not be able to service our debt, pay our obligations or pay dividends on our common stock. further, the company derives a significant portion of its revenue and operating profit from operating subsidiaries located outside the u.s. since the majority of financing obligations as well as dividends to stockholders are paid from the u.s., it is important to be able to access the cash generated by our operating subsidiaries outside the u.s. funds from the company's operating subsidiaries outside the u.s. are regularly repatriated to the u.s. via stockholder distributions and intercompany financings. a number of factors may arise that could limit our ability to repatriate funds or make repatriation cost prohibitive, including, but not limited to, foreign exchange rates and tax-related costs. in the event we are unable to generate cash from our operating subsidiaries for any of the reasons discussed above, our overall liquidity could deteriorate. credit rating downgrades would increase our financing costs and could subject us to operational risk. currently, the company's senior debt is rated baa2 by moody's and a- by s&amp;p. the rating from s&amp;p carries a stable outlook, while the rating from moody ' carries a positive outlook. if we need to raise capital in the future (for example, in order to fund maturing debt obligations or finance acquisitions or other initiatives), credit rating downgrades would increase our financing costs, and could limit our access to financing sources. further, we believe that a downgrade to a rating below investment- 15 grade could result in greater operational risks through increased operating costs and increased competitive pressures. our quarterly revenues and profitability may fluctuate significantly. quarterly variations in revenues and operating results may occur due to several factors. these include: the significance of client engagements commenced and completed during a quarter; the possibility that clients may decide to delay or terminate a current or anticipated project as a result of factors unrelated to our work product or progress; fluctuations in hiring and utilization rates and clients ' ability to terminate engagements without penalty; seasonality due to the impact of regulatory deadlines, policy renewals and other timing factors to which our clients are subject; the success of our acquisitions or investments; macroeconomic factors such as changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and global securities markets, particularly in the case of mercer, where fees in certain business lines are derived from the value of assets under management or administration; and general economic conditions, since results of operations are directly affected by the levels of business activity of our clients, which in turn are affected by the level of economic activity in the industries and markets that they serve. a significant portion of our total operating expenses is relatively fixed in the short term. therefore, a variation in the number of client assignments or in the timing of the initiation or the completion of client assignments can cause significant variations in quarterly operating results for these businesses. if we are unable to collect our receivables, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. our business depends on our ability to successfully obtain payment from our clients of the amounts they owe us for our work performed. accounts receivable typically total about one-quarter of our total annual revenues. in most cases, we bill and collect on relatively short cycles. there is no guarantee that we will accurately assess the creditworthiness of our clients. macroeconomic conditions could result in financial difficulties for our clients, which could cause clients to delay payments to us, request modifications to their payment arrangements that could increase our receivables balance, or default on their payment obligations to us. timely collection of client balances also depends on our ability to complete our contractual commitments and bill and collect our contracted revenues. if we are unable to meet our contractual requirements, we might experience delays in collection of, or be unable to collect, our client balances, and if this occurs, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. in addition, if we experience an increase in the time it takes to bill and collect for our services, our cash flows could be adversely affected. concerns regarding the european debt crisis and market perceptions concerning the instability of the euro could adversely affect the company's operating results as well as the value of the company's euro-denominated assets. concerns persist regarding the ability of certain eurozone countries to service their debt obligations. as a result, a number of these countries have undertaken a variety of actions, such as cutting spending and raising taxes, designed to ease their future debt burdens. a potential consequence may be stagnant growth, or even recession, in the eurozone economies and beyond. any of these developments could lead to further contraction in the eurozone economies, adversely affecting our operating results in the region. the company may also face increased credit risk as our clients and financial institution counterparties in the region find themselves with reduced resources to meet their obligations. finally, the value of the company's assets held in the eurozone, including cash holdings, will decline if the currency devalues. 16 global operations we are exposed to multiple risks associated with the global nature of our operations. we do business worldwide. in 2013, 55% of the company ' total revenue was generated from operations outside the united states, and over one-half of our employees are located outside the united states. we expect to expand our non-u.s. operations further. the geographic breadth of our activities subjects us to significant legal, economic, operational, market, compliance and reputational risks. these include, among others, risks relating to: economic and political conditions in foreign countries; unexpected increases in taxes or changes in u.s. or foreign tax laws; withholding or other taxes that foreign governments may impose on the payment of dividends or other remittances to us from our non-u.s. subsidiaries; potential transfer pricing-related tax exposures that may result from the allocation of u.s.-based costs that benefit our non-u.s. businesses; potential conflicts of interest that may arise as we expand the scope of our businesses and our client base; international hostilities, terrorist activities, natural disasters and infrastructure disruptions; local investment or other financial restrictions that foreign governments may impose; potential costs and difficulties in complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations (including tax systems) administered by foreign government agencies, some of which may conflict with u.s. or other sources of law; potential costs and difficulties in complying, or monitoring compliance, with foreign and u.s. laws and regulations that are applicable to our operations abroad, including trade sanctions laws relating to countries such as cuba, iran, sudan and syria, anti-corruption laws such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act 2010, local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, as well as import and export restrictions; limitations or restrictions that foreign or u.s. legislative bodies or regulators may impose on the products or services we sell or the methods by which we sell our products and services; limitations that foreign governments may impose on the conversion of currency or the payment of dividends or other remittances to us from our non-u.s. subsidiaries; the length of payment cycles and potential difficulties in collecting accounts receivable, particularly in light of the increasing number of insolvencies in the current economic environment and the numerous bankruptcy laws to which they are subject; engaging and relying on third parties to perform services on behalf of the company; and potential difficulties in monitoring employees in geographically dispersed locations. our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem could cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as an earthquake, hurricane, flood, terrorist attack, pandemic, security breach, cyber attack, power loss, telecommunications failure or other natural or man-made disaster, our continued success will depend, in part, on the availability of our personnel, our office facilities, and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. in such an event, our operational size, the multiple locations from which we operate, and our existing back-up systems would provide us with an important advantage. nevertheless, we could still experience near-term operational challenges with regard to particular areas of our operations, such as key executive officers or personnel. our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our technology infrastructure against damage from business continuity events that could have a significant disruptive effect on our operations. we could potentially lose client data or experience material adverse interruptions to our operations or delivery of services to our clients in a disaster recovery scenario. 17 we regularly assess and take steps to improve upon our existing business continuity plans and key management succession. however, a disaster on a significant scale or affecting certain of our key operating areas within or across regions, or our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem, could materially interrupt our business operations and result in material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, damaged client relationships or legal liability. competitive risks each of the company ' businesses operates in a highly competitive environment. if we fail to compete effectively, our business and results of operations will suffer. as a global professional services firm, the company faces acute and continuous competition in each of its operating segments. our ability to compete successfully depends on a variety of factors, including our geographic reach, the sophistication and quality of our services, our pricing relative to competitors and our customers ' option to self-insure or utilize internal resources instead of consultants. if we are unable to respond successfully to the competition we face, our business, results of operations and financial condition will suffer. in addition, given the global breadth of the company ' operations, the company derives a significant portion of its revenue and operating profit from operating subsidiaries located outside the united states. funds from the company ' operating subsidiaries located outside the u.s. are regularly repatriated to the united states out of annual earnings to pay dividends to stockholders, fund share repurchases and for other corporate purposes. the company ' consolidated tax rate is higher than a number of its key competitors that are domiciled outside the united states where corporate tax rates are lower than the u.s. statutory tax rate. the consolidated tax rate at which our earnings are taxed could have an adverse impact on our ability to compete with a number of our peers. in our risk and insurance services segment, in addition to the challenges posed by capital market alternatives to traditional insurance and reinsurance, we compete intensely against a wide range of other insurance and reinsurance brokerage firms that operate on a global, regional, national or local scale for both client business and employee talent. we compete as well with insurance and reinsurance companies that market and service their insurance products without the assistance of brokers or other market intermediaries, and with various other companies that provide risk-related services. this competition is intensified by an industry trend toward a syndicated or distributed approach to the purchase of insurance and reinsurance brokerage services, whereby a client engages multiple brokers to service different portions of the client ' account. in our consulting segment, we compete for business and employee talent with numerous consulting firms and organizations affiliated with accounting, information systems, technology and financial services firms around the world. through these affiliations, such competitors may be able to offer more comprehensive coverage to potential clients. the loss of key professionals could hurt our ability to retain existing client revenues and generate revenues from new business. across all of our businesses, our colleagues are critical to developing and retaining the client relationships on which our revenues depend. it is therefore very important for us to retain significant revenue-producing employees and the key managerial and other professionals who support them. we face numerous challenges in this regard, including the intense competition for talent in all of our businesses and the general mobility of professionals in our businesses. losing employees who manage or support substantial client relationships or possess substantial experience or expertise could adversely affect our ability to secure and complete client engagements, which would adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, if any of our key professionals were to join an existing competitor or form a competing company, some of our clients could choose to use the services of that competitor instead of our services. 18 our businesses face rapid technological changes and our failure to adequately anticipate or respond to these changes or to successfully implement strategic initiatives could adversely affect our business and results of operations. to remain competitive in many of our business areas, we must identify the most current technologies and methodologies and integrate them into our service offerings. we also have a number of strategic initiatives involving investments in technology systems and infrastructure to support our growth strategy. in addition to new platforms and systems, we are deploying new processes and many of our colleagues across the business are changing the way they perform certain roles to capture efficiencies. if we do not keep up with technological changes or execute well on our strategic initiatives, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted. consolidation in the industries we serve could adversely affect our business. companies in the industries that we serve may seek to achieve economies of scale and other synergies by combining with or acquiring other companies. if two or more of our current clients merge or consolidate and combine their operations, it may decrease the amount of work that we perform for these clients. if one of our current clients merges or consolidates with a company that relies on another provider for its services, we may lose work from that client or lose the opportunity to gain additional work. any of these or similar possible results of industry consolidation could adversely affect our business. guy carpenter is especially susceptible to this risk given the limited number of insurance company clients and reinsurers in the marketplace. acquisitions and dispositions we face risks when we acquire and dispose of businesses. we have a history of making acquisitions, including a total of 49 acquisitions in the period 2009-2013 for aggregate purchase consideration of $1.9 billion. we have also exited various businesses, including the sale of kroll in 2010. we expect that acquisitions will continue to be a key part of our business strategy. our success in this regard will depend on our ability to identify and compete for appropriate acquisition candidates and to complete with favorable results the transactions we decide to pursue. while we intend that our acquisitions will improve our competitiveness and profitability, we cannot be certain that our past or future acquisitions will be accretive to earnings or otherwise meet our operational or strategic expectations. acquisitions involve special risks, including accounting, regulatory, compliance, information technology or human resources issues that could arise in connection with, or as a result of, the acquisition of the acquired company; the assumption of unanticipated liabilities and contingencies; difficulties in integrating acquired businesses; and acquired businesses may not achieve the levels of revenue, profit or productivity we anticipate or otherwise perform as we expect. in addition, if in the future, the performance of our reporting units or an acquired business varies from our projections or assumptions, or estimates about future profitability of our reporting units or an acquired business change, the estimated fair value of our reporting units or an acquired business could change materially and could result in an impairment of goodwill and other acquisition-related intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet or in adjustments in contingent payment amounts. as of december 31, 2013, the company ' consolidated balance sheet reflected $7.4 billion of goodwill and intangible assets, representing approximately 44% of the company ' total consolidated assets and allocated by reporting segment as follows: risk and insurance services, $5.1 billion and consulting, $2.3 billion. given the significant size of the company ' goodwill and intangible assets, an impairment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any given period. when we dispose of businesses, we are subject to the risk, contractually agreed or otherwise, of post-transaction liabilities. for example, as described in note 15 to our consolidated financial statements included under part ii, item 8 of this report, we have retained certain contingent litigation liabilities relating to kroll. risks relating to our risk and insurance services segment our risk and insurance services segment, conducted through marsh and guy carpenter, represented 54% of the company ' total revenue in 2013. our business in this segment is subject to particular risks. 19 results in our risk and insurance services segment may be adversely affected by a general decline in economic activity. demand for many types of insurance and reinsurance generally rises or falls as economic growth expands or slows. this dynamic affects the level of commissions and fees generated by marsh and guy carpenter. to the extent our clients become adversely affected by declining business conditions, they may choose to limit their purchases of insurance and reinsurance coverage, as applicable, which would inhibit our ability to generate commission revenue, the insurance they seek to obtain through us may be impacted by changes in their assets, property values, sales or number of employees, which may reduce our commission revenue, and they may decide not to purchase our risk advisory services, which would inhibit our ability to generate fee revenue. moreover, insolvencies and combinations associated with an economic downturn, especially insolvencies and combinations in the insurance industry, could adversely affect our brokerage business through the loss of clients or by hampering our ability to place insurance and reinsurance business. guy carpenter is especially susceptible to this risk given the limited number of insurance company clients and reinsurers in the market place. volatility or declines in premiums and other market trends may significantly impede our ability to improve revenues and profitability. a significant portion of our risk and insurance services revenue consists of commissions paid to us out of the premiums that insurers and reinsurers charge our clients for coverage. our revenues and profitability are subject to change to the extent that premium rates fluctuate or trend in a particular direction. the potential for changes in premium rates is significant, due to the general phenomenon of pricing cyclicality in the commercial insurance and reinsurance markets. in addition to movements in premium rates, our ability to generate premium-based commission revenue may be challenged by the growing availability of alternative methods for clients to meet their risk-protection needs. this trend includes a greater willingness on the part of corporations to self-insure, the use of so-called captive insurers, and the advent of capital markets-based solutions to traditional insurance and reinsurance needs. further, the profitability of our risk and insurances services segment depends in part on our ability to be compensated, not only for insurance and reinsurance transactions, but also for the increasing analytical services and advice that we provide. if we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate billing rates for all of our services, our margins and profitability could suffer. risks relating to our consulting segment our consulting segment, conducted through mercer and oliver wyman group, represented 46% of our total revenue in 2013. our businesses in this segment are subject to particular risks. demand for our services might decrease for various reasons, including a general economic downturn, a decline in a client ' or an industry ' financial condition, or changes in government regulation. global economic conditions over the past several years have resulted in negative impacts on businesses and financial institutions. many of our clients, including financial institutions, corporations, governmental entities and pension plans, have been reducing expenses, including amounts spent on consulting services. the evolving needs or financial circumstances of our clients may challenge our ability to increase revenues and profitability and may reduce demand for our services. if the economy or markets in which we operate experience continued weakness at current levels or deteriorate further, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, demand for many of mercer ' benefits services is affected by government regulation and tax rules, which drive our clients ' needs for benefits-related services. for example, significant changes in government regulations affecting the value, use or delivery of benefits and human resources programs, including changes in regulations relating to health and welfare plans, defined contribution plans, or defined benefit plans, may adversely affect the demand for or profitability of mercer ' services. 20 factors impacting defined benefit pension plans and the services we provide relating to those plans could adversely affect mercer. mercer currently provides corporate, multi-employer and public clients with actuarial, consulting and administration services relating to defined benefit pension plans. the nature of our work is complex. our actuarial services involve numerous assumptions and estimates regarding future events, including interest rates used to discount future liabilities, estimated rates of return for a plan's assets, healthcare cost trends, salary projections and participants' life expectancies. our consulting services involve the drafting and interpretation of trust deeds and other complex documentation governing pension plans. our administration services include calculating benefits within complicated pension plan structures. clients dissatisfied with our services have brought, and may bring, significant claims against us, particularly in the u.s. and the u.k. in addition, a number of mercer's clients have frozen or curtailed their defined benefit plans and have moved to defined contribution plans resulting in reduced revenue for mercer's retirement business. these developments could adversely affect mercer's business and operating results. our profitability may suffer if we are unable to achieve or maintain adequate utilization and pricing rates for our consultants. the profitability of our consulting businesses depends in part on ensuring that our consultants maintain adequate utilization rates (i.e., the percentage of our consultants ' working hours devoted to billable activities). our utilization rates are affected by a number of factors, including: our ability to transition consultants promptly from completed projects to new assignments, and to engage newly-hired consultants quickly in revenue-generating activities; our ability to continually secure new business engagements, particularly because a portion of our work is project-based rather than recurring in nature; our ability to forecast demand for our services and thereby maintain appropriate headcount in each of our geographies and workforces; our ability to manage attrition; unanticipated changes in the scope of client engagements; the potential for conflicts of interest that might require us to decline client engagements that we otherwise would have accepted; our need to devote time and resources to sales, training, professional development and other non-billable activities; the potential disruptive impact of acquisitions and dispositions; and general economic conditions. if the utilization rate for our consulting professionals declines, our profit margin and profitability could suffer. in addition, the profitability of our consulting businesses depends in part on the prices we are able to charge for our services. the prices we charge are affected by a number of factors, including: clients ' perception of our ability to add value through our services; market demand for the services we provide; our ability to develop new services and the introduction of new services by competitors; the pricing policies of our competitors; the extent to which our clients develop in-house or other capabilities to perform the services that they might otherwise purchase from us; and general economic conditions. if we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate billing rates for our services, our profit margin and profitability could suffer. 21 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk and credit risk certain of the company's revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and equity markets. interest rate risk and credit risk the company has historically managed its net exposure to interest rate changes by utilizing a mixture of variable and fixed rate borrowings to finance the company's asset base. in february 2011, the company entered into two 3.5-year interest rate swaps to hedge changes in the fair value of the first $250 million of its 5.375% senior notes due in 2014. under the terms of the swaps, the counter-parties will pay the company a fixed rate of 5.375% and the company will pay interest at a floating rate of three-month libor plus a fixed spread of 3.726%. the swaps are designated as fair value hedging instruments and are deemed to be perfectly effective in accordance with applicable accounting guidance. interest income generated from the company's cash investments as well as invested fiduciary funds will vary with the general level of interest rates. the company had the following investments subject to variable interest rates: (in millions of dollars) december 31, 2013 cash and cash equivalents invested in money market funds, certificates of deposit and time deposits $ 2,303 fiduciary cash and investments $ 4,234 based on the above balances, if short-term interest rates increased or decreased by 10%, or 8 basis points, over the course of the year, annual interest income, including interest earned on fiduciary funds, would increase or decrease by approximately $3 million. in addition to interest rate risk, our cash investments and fiduciary fund investments are subject to potential loss of value due to counter-party credit risk. to minimize this risk, the company and its subsidiaries invest pursuant to a board approved investment policy. the policy mandates the preservation of principal and liquidity and requires broad diversification with counter-party limits assigned based primarily on credit rating and type of investment. the company carefully monitors its cash and fiduciary fund investments and will further restrict the portfolio as appropriate to market conditions. the majority of cash and fiduciary fund investments are invested in short-term bank deposits and liquid money market funds. foreign currency risk the translated values of revenue and expense from the company's international operations are subject to fluctuations due to changes in currency exchange rates. the non-u.s. based revenue that is exposed to foreign exchange fluctuations is approximately 55% of total revenue. we periodically use forward contracts and options to limit foreign currency exchange rate exposure on net income and cash flows for specific, clearly defined transactions arising in the ordinary course of business. although the company has significant revenue generated in foreign locations which is subject to foreign exchange rate fluctuations, in most cases both the foreign currency revenue and expenses are in the functional currency of the foreign location. as such, the u.s. dollar translation of both the revenues and expenses, as well as the potentially offsetting movements of various currencies against the u.s. dollar, generally tends to mitigate the impact on net operating income of foreign currency risk. the company estimates that a 10% movement of major foreign currencies (euro, sterling, australian dollar and canadian dollar) in the same direction against the u.s. dollar that held constant over the course of the year would increase or decrease full year operating income by approximately $47 million. 45 equity price risk the company holds investments in both public and private companies as well as private equity funds that invest primarily in financial services companies. publicly traded investments of $18 million are classified as available for sale. non-publicly traded investments of $14 million are accounted for using the cost method and $89 million are accounted for using the equity method. the investments that are classified as available for sale or that are not publicly traded are subject to risk of changes in market value, which if determined to be other than temporary, could result in realized impairment losses. the company periodically reviews the carrying value of such investments to determine if any valuation adjustments are appropriate under the applicable accounting pronouncements. other a number of lawsuits and regulatory proceedings are pending. see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. 46risk factors you should consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information presented in this report. these risks have the potential to materially adversely affect the company ' business, results of operations or financial condition. 11 risks relating to the company generally legal and regulatory issues we are subject to significant uninsured exposures arising from "errors and omissions" and similar claims. our operating companies provide numerous professional services, including the placement of insurance and the provision of consulting, actuarial and other services, to corporate and public clients around the world. as a result of these activities, the company and its subsidiaries are subject to a significant number of errors and omissions, breach of fiduciary duty and similar claims, which we refer to collectively as "e&amp;o claims". in our risk and insurance services segment, such claims include allegations of damages arising from our failure to adequately place coverage or notify insurers of potential claims on behalf of clients. in our consulting segment, such claims include allegations of damages arising from our actuarial, consulting, investments, pension administration and other services, which frequently involve (1) assumptions and estimates concerning contingent future events, (2) drafting and interpretation of complex documentation governing pension plans, (3) calculating benefits within complex pension structures and (4) the provision of investment advice and management of client assets. given the long-tail nature of professional liability claims, these matters often relate to services provided by the company dating back many years. such claims may seek damages, including punitive and treble damages, in amounts that could, if awarded, be significant and subject us to liability for monetary damages, negative publicity and reputational harm and divert personnel and management resources. the company has varying levels of third-party insurance coverage, with policy limits and coverage terms varying significantly by policy year. in establishing liabilities for e&amp;o claims in accordance with fasb asc subtopic no. 450-20 (contingencies-loss contingencies), the company utilizes case level reviews by inside and outside counsel, an internal actuarial analysis and other analysis to estimate potential losses. a liability is established when a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable. the liability is reviewed quarterly and adjusted as developments warrant. in many cases, the company has not recorded a liability, other than for legal fees to defend the claim, because we are unable, at the present time, to make a determination that a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable. nevertheless, given the unpredictability of e&amp;o claims and of litigation that could flow from them, it is possible that an adverse outcome in a particular matter could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flow in a given quarterly or annual period. further, and as more fully described in note 15 to our consolidated financial statements included under part ii, item 8 of this report, we are subject to legal proceedings, regulatory investigations and other contingencies other than e&amp;o claims which, if determined unfavorably to us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. we cannot guarantee that we are or will be in compliance with all current and potentially applicable u.s. federal and state or foreign laws and regulations, and actions by regulatory authorities or changes in legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business. our activities are subject to extensive regulation under the laws of the united states and its various states, the european union and its member states and the other jurisdictions in which we operate. for example, we are subject to regulation by foreign and domestic governments, regulatory agencies such as the sec in the united states and the fca in the united kingdom and self-regulatory organizations such as finra, as further described above under part i, item 1 - business (regulation) of this report. the foreign and u.s. laws and regulations applicable to our operations are complex and may increase the costs of regulatory compliance, limit or restrict the products or services we sell or subject our business to the possibility of regulatory actions or proceedings. these laws and regulations include trade sanctions laws relating to countries such as cuba, iran, russia, sudan and syria, anti-corruption laws such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act 2010 and similar local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials and the foreign account tax compliance provisions of the hiring incentives to restore employment act in the u.s., as well as import and export restrictions. as discussed in more detail below, they also include laws and regulations related to data privacy and cyber security. 12 we are subject to additional federal, state and other rules and regulations, including those required by the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act. compliance with the requirements of these laws and regulations, among others, may be costly and could adversely affect our business. while we attempt to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that we, our employees, our consultants or our contractors are in full compliance with all applicable laws and regulations or interpretations of these laws and regulations at all times or that we will be able to comply with any future laws or regulations. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including those referred to above, we may be subject to investigations, criminal penalties or civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, loss of an operating license or approval, increased scrutiny or oversight by regulatory authorities, the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in a particular business or redress to clients. the cost of compliance or the consequences of non-compliance could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. in addition, these matters could have a material adverse effect on the company by exposing us to negative publicity and reputational damage or by harming our client or employee relationships. in most jurisdictions, government regulatory authorities have the power to interpret or amend applicable laws and regulations, and have discretion to grant, renew and revoke various licenses and approvals we need to conduct our activities. such authorities may require the company to incur substantial increases in costs in order to comply with such laws and regulations. in some areas of our businesses, we act on the basis of our own or the industry ' interpretations of applicable laws or regulations, which may conflict from state to state or country to country. in the event those interpretations eventually prove different from the interpretations of regulatory authorities, we might be penalized or precluded from carrying on our previous activities. moreover, the laws and regulations to which we are subject may conflict among the various jurisdictions and countries in which we operate, which could increase the likelihood of our businesses being non-compliant in one or more jurisdictions. the method by which insurance intermediaries are compensated has received substantial scrutiny from regulators in the past because of the potential for conflicts of interest. the potential for conflicts of interest arises when an intermediary is compensated by two parties in connection with the same or similar transactions. the vast majority of the compensation that marsh receives is in the form of retail commissions and fees. the amount of compensation that we receive from insurance companies, separate from retail commissions and fees, has increased significantly in the last several years. this compensation includes, among other things, payment for consulting and analytics services provided to insurers; administrative and other services provided to or on behalf of insurers (including services relating to the administration and management of quota shares, panels and other facilities in which insurers participate); and contingent commissions in parts of our operations. future changes in the regulatory environment may impact our ability to collect these revenue streams. in addition, these revenues present potential regulatory, litigation and reputational risks that may arise from alleged conflicts of interest or allegations under antitrust, competition and other laws. adverse regulatory, legal or other developments regarding these revenues could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition, expose us to negative publicity and reputational damage and harm our client, insurer or other relationships. finally, government involvement in the insurance or reinsurance markets could displace insurance or reinsurance currently available from the private market and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. improper disclosure of confidential, personal or proprietary data, whether due to human error, misuse of information by employees or vendors or as a result of cyberattacks, could result in regulatory scrutiny, legal liability or reputational harm, and could have a material adverse effect on our business. we maintain confidential, personal and proprietary information relating to our company, our employees, our clients and their employees and other third parties. this information includes personally identifiable information, protected health information and financial information. confidential, personal and proprietary information is subject to the risk that it will be improperly disclosed or misused, either as a result of human error or improper action by employees, vendors or third parties, 13 including through a cyberattack. the age of some of our technology, as well as the expansion of and increased use of mobile devices, online and "cloud"-based services and social media tools by employees, clients and third parties, and the speed at which information can be widely distributed, all contribute to an increased risk of intentional or unintentional distribution or misuse of such information. in addition, across our global operations, we have a significant number of third-party vendors who have direct access to our systems or receive a significant amount of confidential, personal or proprietary information from us. as a result, we are also at risk of a data incident involving a vendor, including due to the breakdown of a vendor's data protection processes or a cyberattack on a vendor's systems. in many jurisdictions around the world, we are increasingly subject to new or changing laws, rules and regulations relating to the collection, use, transfer, retention, security and management of such information. these laws impose, among other things, restrictions on cross-border transfers, stringent operational requirements, breach notification obligations and, in some jurisdictions, significant penalties for non-compliance. these evolving laws and regulations impose significant technology and compliance costs on us. our failure to adhere to legal or regulatory requirements in this area could result in legal liability or damage to our reputation, as well as the risks described elsewhere herein relating to our compliance systems and controls. we have, to date, experienced data incidents involving confidential, personal and proprietary information, including breaches resulting from human error, as well as employees or vendors misusing such information and unauthorized persons gaining access to our systems. to date, these incidents have not had a material adverse effect on our business or operations. in the future, however, such incidents could disrupt our business, damage our reputation and subject us to significant legal liability. the costs associated with such incidents could be substantial and could exceed any coverage available under our insurance policies. we engage in periodic testing and maintain policies, procedures and technical safeguards designed to protect the security and privacy of confidential, personal and proprietary information. however, our testing efforts may not discover all system deficiencies, and we may not be able to fully remediate any discovered deficiencies in a timely manner. similarly, our policies, procedures and technical safeguards may be insufficient to prevent improper access to or disclosure or misuse of confidential, personal or proprietary information. we also may be unable to detect an incident, assess the severity or impact of an incident or appropriately respond to an incident in a timely manner. significant costs are involved with maintaining safeguards for our technology infrastructure. if we are unable to efficiently and effectively maintain and upgrade these safeguards, including in connection with the integration of acquisitions, we could incur unexpected costs and certain of our systems could become more vulnerable, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. improper access to or use or disclosure of confidential, personal or proprietary information could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under our contracts, as well as under existing or future laws, rules and regulations, resulting in increased legal and other costs, harm to our reputation and disruption of our business. financial risks our pension obligations could cause the company ' financial position, earnings and cash flows to fluctuate. the company has significant pension obligations to its current and former employees, totaling approximately $15.9 billion, and related plan assets of approximately $14.9 billion, at december 31, 2014. the company ' policy for funding its tax-qualified defined benefit retirement plans is to contribute amounts at least sufficient to meet the funding requirements set forth by u.s. law and the laws of the non-u.s. jurisdictions in which the company offers defined benefit plans. in the u.s., contributions to the tax-qualified defined benefit plans are based on erisa guidelines. contribution rates for non-u.s. plans are generally based on local funding practices and statutory requirements, which may differ from measurements under u.s. gaap. in the u.k., for example, contributions to defined benefit pension plans are based on statutory requirements and are determined through a negotiation process between the company and the plans' trustee that typically occurs every three years in conjunction with the actuarial valuation of the plans. this negotiation process is governed by u.k. pension regulations. certain of the 14 assumptions that result from the funding negotiations are different from those used for u.s. gaap and currently result in a lower funded status than under u.s. gaap. during 2014, the company contributed $25 million to its u.s. pension plans and $156 million to its non-u.s. pension plans. the calculations relating to our defined benefit pension plans are complex. as indicated in note 8 to our consolidated financial statements, pension plan assets and liabilities, periodic pension expense and future funding amounts are impacted by future asset performance, the assumed interest rates we use to discount our pension liabilities, rates of inflation, mortality assumptions and other variables. given the magnitude of our worldwide pension plans, variations in or reassessment of the preceding factors or potential miscalculations relating to our defined benefit pension plans could cause significant fluctuation from year to year in our earnings and cash flow, as well as our pension plan assets, liabilities and equity, and may result in increased levels of contributions to our pension plans. our results of operations could be adversely affected by economic and political conditions and the effects of these conditions on our clients ' businesses and levels of business activity. global economic and political conditions affect our clients ' businesses and the markets they serve. these economic conditions may reduce demand for our services or depress pricing of those services, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. changes in global economic conditions could also shift demand to services for which we do not have competitive advantages, and this could negatively affect the amount of business that we are able to obtain. should it become necessary for us to restructure our business, including reducing our work force, as a result of market conditions or other factors that reduce the demand for our products and services, our ability to execute our business strategy could be adversely affected. our cash investments, including those held in a fiduciary capacity, are subject to general credit, liquidity, counterparty, market and interest rate risks that may be exacerbated by the difficulties faced by financial institution counterparties. if the banking system or the fixed income, credit or equity markets deteriorate, the value and liquidity of our investments could be adversely affected. our significant non-u.s. operations expose us to exchange rate fluctuations and various risks that could impact our business. we are subject to exchange rate movement because some of our subsidiaries receive revenue other than in their functional currencies and because we must translate the financial results of our foreign subsidiaries into u.s. dollars. our u.s. operations earn revenue and incur expenses primarily in u.s. dollars. in certain jurisdictions, however, our risk and insurance services operations generate revenue in a number of different currencies, but expenses are almost entirely incurred in local currency. due to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, we are subject to economic exposure as well as currency translation exposure on the profits of our operations. because the non-u.s. based revenue that is exposed to foreign exchange fluctuations is approximately 55% of total revenue, exchange rate movement could have a significant impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. for additional discussion, see "market risk and credit risk foreign currency risk" in part ii, item 7a ("quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk") of this report. increased counterparty risk, changes in interest rates and other market developments could reduce the value of our investment portfolio and adversely affect our financial results. during times of stress in the banking industry, counterparty risk can quickly escalate, potentially resulting in substantial trading and investment losses for corporate and other investors. in addition, we may incur investment losses as a result of unusual and unpredictable market developments, and we may continue to experience reduced investment earnings if the yields on investments deemed to be low risk remain at or near their current low levels. we are a holding company and may not be able to receive dividends or other distributions in needed amounts from our subsidiaries. the company is organized as a holding company, a legal entity separate and distinct from our operating subsidiaries. as a holding company without significant operations of our own, we are dependent upon dividends and other payments from our operating subsidiaries to meet our obligations for paying principal and interest on outstanding debt obligations, for paying dividends to stockholders and for corporate 15 expenses. in the event our operating subsidiaries are unable to pay sufficient dividends and make other payments to the company, we may not be able to service our debt, pay our obligations or pay dividends on our common stock. further, the company derives a significant portion of its revenue and operating profit from operating subsidiaries located outside the u.s. since the majority of financing obligations as well as dividends to stockholders are paid from the u.s., it is important to be able to access the cash generated by our operating subsidiaries outside the u.s. funds from the company's operating subsidiaries outside the u.s. are regularly repatriated to the u.s. via stockholder distributions and intercompany financings. a number of factors may arise that could limit our ability to repatriate funds or make repatriation cost prohibitive, including, but not limited to, foreign exchange rates and tax-related costs. in the event we are unable to generate cash from our operating subsidiaries for any of the reasons discussed above, our overall liquidity could deteriorate. credit rating downgrades would increase our financing costs and could subject us to operational risk. currently, the company's senior debt is rated baa1 by moody's and a- by s&amp;p. the ratings from both moody's and s&amp;p currently carry a stable outlook. if we need to raise capital in the future (for example, in order to fund maturing debt obligations or finance acquisitions or other initiatives), credit rating downgrades would increase our financing costs, and could limit our access to financing sources. further, we believe that a downgrade to a rating below investment-grade could result in greater operational risks through increased operating costs and increased competitive pressures. our quarterly revenues and profitability may fluctuate significantly. quarterly variations in revenues and operating results may occur due to several factors. these include: the significance of client engagements commenced and completed during a quarter; the possibility that clients may decide to delay or terminate a current or anticipated project as a result of factors unrelated to our work product or progress; fluctuations in hiring and utilization rates and clients ' ability to terminate engagements without penalty; seasonality due to the impact of regulatory deadlines, policy renewals and other timing factors to which our clients are subject; the success of our acquisitions or investments; macroeconomic factors such as changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and global securities markets, particularly in the case of mercer, where fees in certain business lines are derived from the value of assets under management or administration; and general economic conditions, since results of operations are directly affected by the levels of business activity of our clients, which in turn are affected by the level of economic activity in the industries and markets that they serve. a significant portion of our total operating expenses is relatively fixed in the short term. therefore, a variation in the number of client assignments or in the timing of the initiation or the completion of client assignments can cause significant variations in quarterly operating results for these businesses. if we are unable to collect our receivables, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. our business depends on our ability to successfully obtain payment from our clients of the amounts they owe us for our work performed. accounts receivable typically total about one-quarter of our total annual revenues. in most cases, we bill and collect on relatively short cycles. there is no guarantee that we will accurately assess the creditworthiness of our clients. macroeconomic conditions could result in financial difficulties for our clients, which could cause clients to delay payments to us, request modifications to their payment arrangements that could increase our receivables balance, or default on their payment obligations to us. timely collection of client balances also depends on our ability to complete our contractual commitments and bill and collect our contracted revenues. if we are unable to meet our 16 contractual requirements, we might experience delays in collection of, or be unable to collect, our client balances, and if this occurs, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. in addition, if we experience an increase in the time it takes to bill and collect for our services, our cash flows could be adversely affected. market perceptions concerning the instability of the euro could adversely affect the company's operating results as well as the value of the company's euro-denominated assets. concerns persist regarding the ability of certain eurozone countries to service their debt obligations. as a result, a number of these countries have undertaken a variety of actions, such as cutting spending and raising taxes, designed to ease their future debt burdens. a potential consequence may be stagnant growth, or even recession, in the eurozone economies and beyond. any of these developments could lead to further contraction in the eurozone economies, adversely affecting our operating results in the region. the company may also face increased credit risk as our clients and financial institution counterparties in the region find themselves with reduced resources to meet their obligations. finally, the value of the company's assets held in the eurozone, including cash holdings, will decline if the currency devalues. global operations we are exposed to multiple risks associated with the global nature of our operations. we do business worldwide. in 2014, 55% of the company ' total revenue was generated from operations outside the united states, and over one-half of our employees are located outside the united states. we expect to expand our non-u.s. operations further. the geographic breadth of our activities subjects us to significant legal, economic, operational, market, compliance and reputational risks. these include, among others, risks relating to: economic and political conditions in foreign countries; unexpected increases in taxes or changes in u.s. or foreign tax laws; withholding or other taxes that foreign governments may impose on the payment of dividends or other remittances to us from our non-u.s. subsidiaries; potential transfer pricing-related tax exposures that may result from the allocation of u.s.-based costs that benefit our non-u.s. businesses; potential conflicts of interest that may arise as we expand the scope of our businesses and our client base; international hostilities, terrorist activities, natural disasters and infrastructure disruptions; local investment or other financial restrictions that foreign governments may impose; potential costs and difficulties in complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations (including tax systems) administered by foreign government agencies, some of which may conflict with u.s. or other sources of law; potential costs and difficulties in complying, or monitoring compliance, with foreign and u.s. laws and regulations that are applicable to our operations abroad, including trade sanctions laws relating to countries such as cuba, iran, russia, sudan and syria, anti-corruption laws such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act 2010, local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, as well as import and export restrictions; limitations or restrictions that foreign or u.s. legislative bodies or regulators may impose on the products or services we sell or the methods by which we sell our products and services; limitations that foreign governments may impose on the conversion of currency or the payment of dividends or other remittances to us from our non-u.s. subsidiaries; the length of payment cycles and potential difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; engaging and relying on third parties to perform services on behalf of the company; and potential difficulties in monitoring employees in geographically dispersed locations. 17 our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem could cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as an earthquake, hurricane, flood, terrorist attack, pandemic, security breach, cyber attack, power loss, telecommunications failure or other natural or man-made disaster, our ability to continue to operate will depend, in part, on the availability of our personnel, our office facilities and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. in such an event, we could experience operational challenges with regard to particular areas of our operations, such as key executive officers or personnel, that could have a material adverse effect on our business. our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our technology infrastructure against damage from events that could have a significant disruptive effect on our operations. we could potentially lose client data or experience material adverse interruptions to our operations or delivery of services to our clients in a disaster recovery scenario. we regularly assess and take steps to improve our existing business continuity plans and key management succession. however, a disaster on a significant scale or affecting certain of our key operating areas within or across regions, or our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem, could materially interrupt our business operations and result in material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, damaged client relationships or legal liability. competitive risks each of the company ' businesses operates in a highly competitive environment. if we fail to compete effectively against our competitors, some of which have lower effective tax rates, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be impacted adversely. as a global professional services firm, the company faces acute and continuous competition in each of its operating segments. our ability to compete successfully depends on a variety of factors, including the quality and expertise of our colleagues, our geographic reach, the sophistication and quality of our services, our pricing relative to competitors and our customers ' ability to self-insure or utilize internal resources instead of consultants. if we are unable to respond successfully to the competition we face, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely impacted. in addition, given the global breadth of our operations, the company derives a significant portion of its revenue and operating profit from operating subsidiaries located outside the united states. funds from the company ' operating subsidiaries located outside the u.s. are regularly repatriated to the united states out of annual earnings to pay dividends to stockholders, fund share repurchases and for other corporate purposes. the company ' consolidated tax rate is higher than a number of its key competitors that are domiciled outside the united states where corporate tax rates are lower than the u.s. statutory tax rate. the higher consolidated tax rate at which our earnings are taxed could have an adverse impact on our ability to compete with a number of our competitors. in our risk and insurance services segment, in addition to the challenges posed by capital market alternatives to traditional insurance and reinsurance, we compete intensely against a wide range of other insurance and reinsurance brokerage firms that operate on a global, regional, national or local scale for both client business and employee talent. we compete as well with insurance and reinsurance companies that market and service their insurance products without the assistance of brokers or other market intermediaries, and with various other companies that provide risk-related services or alternatives to traditional brokerage services. this competition is intensified by an industry trend toward a syndicated or distributed approach to the purchase of insurance and reinsurance brokerage services, whereby a client engages multiple brokers to service different portions of the client ' account. in our consulting segment, we compete for business and employee talent with numerous consulting firms and organizations affiliated with accounting, information systems, technology and financial services firms around the world. through these affiliations, such competitors may be able to offer more comprehensive coverage to potential clients. 18 the loss of key professionals could hurt our ability to retain existing client revenues and generate revenues from new business. across all of our businesses, our colleagues are critical to developing and retaining the client relationships performing the service on which our revenues depend. it is therefore important for us to retain significant revenue-producing employees and the key managerial and other professionals who support them. we face numerous challenges in this regard, including the intense competition for talent in all of our businesses and the general mobility of professionals in our businesses. losing employees who manage or support substantial client relationships or possess substantial experience or expertise could adversely affect our ability to secure and complete client engagements, which could adversely affect our results of operations. and, subject to applicable restrictive covenants, if any of our key professionals were to join an existing competitor or form a competing company, some of our clients could choose to use the services of that competitor instead of our services. our businesses face rapid technological changes and our failure to adequately anticipate or respond to these changes or to successfully implement strategic initiatives to address them could adversely affect our business and results of operations. to remain competitive in many of our business areas, we must identify the most current technologies and methodologies and integrate them into our service offerings. we also have a number of strategic initiatives involving investments in technology systems and infrastructure to support our growth strategy. in addition to new platforms and systems, we are deploying new processes and many of our colleagues across the business are changing the way they perform certain roles to capture efficiencies. if we do not keep up with technological changes or execute well on our strategic initiatives, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted. consolidation in the industries we serve could adversely affect our business. companies in the industries that we serve may seek to achieve economies of scale and other synergies by combining with or acquiring other companies. if two or more of our current clients merge or consolidate and combine their operations, it may decrease the amount of work that we perform for these clients. if one of our current clients merges or consolidates with a company that relies on another provider for its services, we may lose work from that client or lose the opportunity to gain additional work. any of these or similar possible results of industry consolidation could adversely affect our business. guy carpenter is especially susceptible to this risk given the limited number of insurance company clients and reinsurers in the marketplace. acquisitions and dispositions we face risks when we acquire and dispose of businesses. we have a history of making acquisitions, including a total of 71 acquisitions in the period 2009-2014 for aggregate purchase consideration of $3.0 billion. we have also exited various businesses, including the sale of kroll in 2010. we expect that acquisitions will continue to be a key part of our business strategy. our success in this regard will depend on our ability to identify and compete for appropriate acquisition candidates and to complete with favorable results the transactions we decide to pursue. while we intend that our acquisitions will improve our competitiveness and profitability, we cannot be certain that our past or future acquisitions will be accretive to earnings or otherwise meet our operational or strategic expectations. acquisitions involve special risks, including accounting, regulatory, compliance, information technology or human resources issues that could arise in connection with, or as a result of, the acquisition of the acquired company; the assumption of unanticipated liabilities and contingencies; difficulties in integrating acquired businesses; and the inability of acquired businesses to achieve the levels of revenue, profit or productivity we anticipate or otherwise perform as we expect. in addition, if in the future, the performance of our reporting units or an acquired business varies from our projections or assumptions, or estimates about future profitability of our reporting units or an acquired business change, the estimated fair value of our reporting units or an acquired business could change materially and could result in an impairment of goodwill and other acquisition-related intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet or in adjustments in contingent payment amounts. as of december 31, 2014, the 19 company ' consolidated balance sheet reflected $7.9 billion of goodwill and intangible assets, representing approximately 44% of the company ' total consolidated assets and allocated by reporting segment as follows: risk and insurance services, $5.6 billion and consulting, $2.3 billion. given the significant size of the company ' goodwill and intangible assets, an impairment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any given period. when we dispose of businesses, we are subject to the risk, contractually agreed or otherwise, of post-transaction liabilities. for example, as described in note 15 to our consolidated financial statements included under part ii, item 8 of this report, we have retained certain contingent litigation liabilities relating to kroll. risks relating to our risk and insurance services segment our risk and insurance services segment, conducted through marsh and guy carpenter, represented 54% of the company ' total revenue in 2014. our business in this segment is subject to particular risks. results in our risk and insurance services segment may be adversely affected by a general decline in economic activity. demand for many types of insurance and reinsurance generally rises or falls as economic growth expands or slows. this dynamic affects the level of commissions and fees generated by marsh and guy carpenter. to the extent our clients become adversely affected by declining business conditions, they may choose to limit their purchases of insurance and reinsurance coverage, as applicable, which would inhibit our ability to generate commission revenue. also, the insurance they seek to obtain through us may be impacted by changes in their assets, property values, sales or number of employees, which may reduce our commission revenue, and they may decide not to purchase our risk advisory services, which would inhibit our ability to generate fee revenue. moreover, insolvencies and combinations associated with an economic downturn, especially insolvencies and combinations in the insurance industry, could adversely affect our brokerage business through the loss of clients or by hampering our ability to place insurance and reinsurance business. guy carpenter is especially susceptible to this risk given the limited number of insurance company clients and reinsurers in the market place. volatility or declines in premiums and other market trends may significantly impede our ability to improve revenues and profitability. a significant portion of our risk and insurance services revenue consists of commissions paid to us out of the premiums that insurers and reinsurers charge our clients for coverage. our revenues and profitability are subject to change to the extent that premium rates fluctuate or trend in a particular direction. the potential for changes in premium rates is significant, due to the general phenomenon of pricing cyclicality in the commercial insurance and reinsurance markets. in addition to movements in premium rates, our ability to generate premium-based commission revenue may be challenged by the growing availability of alternative methods for clients to meet their risk-protection needs. this trend includes a greater willingness on the part of corporations to self-insure, the use of so-called captive insurers, and the advent of capital markets-based solutions to traditional insurance and reinsurance needs. further, the profitability of our risk and insurances services segment depends in part on our ability to be compensated, not only for insurance and reinsurance transactions, but also for the increasing analytical services and advice that we provide. if we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate billing rates for all of our services, our margins and profitability could decline. risks relating to our consulting segment our consulting segment, conducted through mercer and oliver wyman group, represented 46% of our total revenue in 2014. our businesses in this segment are subject to particular risks. demand for our services might decrease for various reasons, including a general economic downturn, a decline in a client ' or an industry ' financial condition, or changes in government regulation. global economic conditions over the past several years have resulted in negative impacts on businesses and financial institutions. many of our clients, including financial institutions, corporations, governmental 20 entities and pension plans, have been reducing expenses, including amounts spent on consulting services. the evolving needs or financial circumstances of our clients may challenge our ability to increase revenues and profitability and may reduce demand for our services. if the economy or markets in which we operate experience continued weakness at current levels or deteriorate further, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, demand for many of mercer ' benefits services is affected by government regulation and tax rules, which drive our clients ' needs for benefits-related services. for example, significant changes in government regulations affecting the value, use or delivery of benefits and human resources programs, including changes in regulations relating to health and welfare plans, defined contribution plans, or defined benefit plans, may adversely affect the demand for or profitability of mercer ' services. some segments of mercer's investments business generate fees based upon the amount of client assets to which mercer provides services across multiple asset classes. as such, significant and negative movements in global markets may reduce revenue generated by asset-based fees. factors impacting defined benefit pension plans and the services we provide relating to those plans could adversely affect mercer. mercer currently provides corporate, multi-employer and public clients with actuarial, consulting and administration services relating to defined benefit pension plans. the nature of our work is complex. our actuarial services involve numerous assumptions and estimates regarding future events, including interest rates used to discount future liabilities, estimated rates of return for a plan's assets, healthcare cost trends, salary projections and participants' life expectancies. our consulting services involve the drafting and interpretation of trust deeds and other complex documentation governing pension plans. our administration services include calculating benefits within complicated pension plan structures. clients dissatisfied with our services have brought, and may bring, significant claims against us, particularly in the u.s. and the u.k. in addition, a number of mercer's clients have frozen or curtailed their defined benefit plans and have moved to defined contribution plans resulting in reduced revenue for mercer's retirement business. these developments could adversely affect mercer's business and operating results. our profitability may decline if we are unable to achieve or maintain adequate utilization and pricing rates for our consultants. the profitability of our consulting businesses depends in part on ensuring that our consultants maintain adequate utilization rates (i.e., the percentage of our consultants ' working hours devoted to billable activities). our utilization rates are affected by a number of factors, including: our ability to transition consultants promptly from completed projects to new assignments, and to engage newly-hired consultants quickly in revenue-generating activities; our ability to continually secure new business engagements, particularly because a portion of our work is project-based rather than recurring in nature; our ability to forecast demand for our services and thereby maintain appropriate headcount in each of our geographies and workforces; our ability to manage attrition; unanticipated changes in the scope of client engagements; the potential for conflicts of interest that might require us to decline client engagements that we otherwise would have accepted; our need to devote time and resources to sales, training, professional development and other non-billable activities; the potential disruptive impact of acquisitions and dispositions; and general economic conditions. if the utilization rate for our consulting professionals declines, our profit margin and profitability could decline. in addition, the profitability of our consulting businesses depends in part on the prices we are able to charge for our services. the prices we charge are affected by a number of factors, including: clients ' perception of our ability to add value through our services; market demand for the services we provide; 21 our ability to develop new services and the introduction of new services by competitors; the pricing policies of our competitors; the extent to which our clients develop in-house or other capabilities to perform the services that they might otherwise purchase from us; and general economic conditions. if we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate billing rates for our services, our profit margin and profitability could decline. 22 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk and credit risk certain of the company's revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and equity markets. interest rate risk and credit risk interest income generated from the company's cash investments as well as invested fiduciary funds will vary with the general level of interest rates. the company had the following investments subject to variable interest rates: (in millions of dollars) december 31, 2014 cash and cash equivalents invested in money market funds, certificates of deposit and time deposits $ 1,958 fiduciary cash and investments $ 4,552 based on the above balances, if short-term interest rates increased or decreased by 10%, or 8 basis points, over the course of the year, annual interest income, including interest earned on fiduciary funds, would increase or decrease by approximately $3 million. in addition to interest rate risk, our cash investments and fiduciary fund investments are subject to potential loss of value due to counter-party credit risk. to minimize this risk, the company and its subsidiaries invest pursuant to a board approved investment policy. the policy mandates the preservation of principal and liquidity and requires broad diversification with counter-party limits assigned based primarily on credit rating and type of investment. the company carefully monitors its cash and fiduciary fund investments and will further restrict the portfolio as appropriate to market conditions. the majority of cash and fiduciary fund investments are invested in short-term bank deposits and liquid money market funds. foreign currency risk the translated values of revenue and expense from the company's international operations are subject to fluctuations due to changes in currency exchange rates. the non-u.s. based revenue that is exposed to foreign exchange fluctuations is approximately 55% of total revenue. we periodically use forward contracts and options to limit foreign currency exchange rate exposure on net income and cash flows for specific, clearly defined transactions arising in the ordinary course of business. although the company has significant revenue generated in foreign locations which is subject to foreign exchange rate fluctuations, in most cases both the foreign currency revenue and expenses are in the functional currency of the foreign location. as such, the u.s. dollar translation of both the revenues and expenses, as well as the potentially offsetting movements of various currencies against the u.s. dollar, generally tends to mitigate the impact on net operating income of foreign currency risk. if foreign exchange rates of major currencies (euro, sterling, australian dollar and canadian dollar) moved 10% in the same direction against the us dollar compared with the foreign exchange rates in 2014, the company estimates net operating income would increase or decrease by approximately $54 million. the company has exposure to approximately 80 foreign currencies overall. in the fourth quarter of 2014, the u.s. dollar strengthened significantly against most currencies. if exchange rates at january 31, 2015 hold constant throughout 2015, the company estimates the year-over-year impact from conversion of foreign currency earnings would reduce full year income by approximately $125 million. in continental europe, the largest amount of revenue from renewals for the risk &amp; insurance segment occurs in the first quarter. consequently, a significant portion of the year-over-year foreign exchange impact would occur in the first quarter. equity price risk the company holds investments in both public and private companies as well as private equity funds that invest primarily in financial services companies. publicly traded investments of $18 million are classified as available for sale. non-publicly traded investments of $12 million are accounted for using the cost 45 method and $388 million are accounted for using the equity method. the investments are subject to risk of changes in market value, which if determined to be other than temporary, could result in realized impairment losses. the company periodically reviews the carrying value of such investments to determine if any valuation adjustments are appropriate under the applicable accounting pronouncements. other a number of lawsuits and regulatory proceedings are pending. see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report. 46risk factors you should consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information presented in this report. these risks have the potential to materially adversely affect the company ' business, results of operations or financial condition. risks relating to the company generally legal and regulatory issues we are subject to significant uninsured exposures arising from errors and omissions, breach of fiduciary duty and similar claims. our operating companies provide numerous professional services, including the placement of insurance and the provision of consulting, investment advisory, actuarial and other services, to clients around the world. as a result of these activities, the company and its subsidiaries are subject to a significant number of errors and omissions, breach of fiduciary duty and similar claims, which we refer to collectively as "e&amp;o claims." in our risk and insurance services segment, such claims include allegations of damages arising from our failure to adequately place coverage or notify insurers of potential claims on behalf of clients. in our consulting segment, such claims include allegations of damages arising from the provision of consulting, investments, actuarial, pension administration and other services. these services frequently involve complex calculations and other analysis, including (i) assumptions and estimates concerning contingent future events, (ii) drafting and interpretation of complex documentation governing pension plans, (iii) calculating benefits within complex pension structures and (iv) the provision of investment advice, including regarding asset allocation and investment strategy, and management of client assets, including the selection of investment managers. given the long-tail nature of many of these types of claims, these matters often relate to services provided by the company dating back many years. such claims may subject us to significant liability for monetary damages, including punitive and treble damages, negative publicity and reputational harm and may divert personnel and management resources. we may be unable to effectively limit our potential liability in certain jurisdictions or in connection with certain types of claims, particularly including those concerning claims of a breach of fiduciary duty . in establishing liabilities for e&amp;o claims in accordance with fasb asc subtopic no. 450-20 (contingencies - loss contingencies), the company uses case level reviews by inside and outside counsel, an internal actuarial analysis and other analysis to estimate potential losses. a liability is established when a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable. the liability is reviewed quarterly and adjusted as developments warrant. in many cases, the company has not recorded a liability, other than for legal fees to defend the claim, because we are unable, at the present time, to make a determination that a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable. nevertheless, given the challenges inherent in establishing liabilities in accordance with fasb asc subtopic no. 450-20, as well as the unpredictability of e&amp;o claims and the litigation that can flow from them, it is possible that an adverse outcome in a particular matter could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flow in a given quarterly or annual period. further, and as more fully described in note 15 to our consolidated financial statements included under part ii, item 8 of this report, we are subject to legal proceedings, regulatory investigations and other contingencies other than e&amp;o claims which, if determined unfavorably to us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 12 we cannot guarantee that we are or will be in compliance with all current and potentially applicable u.s. federal and state or foreign laws and regulations, and actions by regulatory authorities or changes in legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business. our activities are subject to extensive regulation under the laws of the united states and its various states, the european union and its member states and the other jurisdictions in which we operate. for example, we are subject to regulation by agencies such as the sec in the united states and the fca in the united kingdom, state insurance regulators in the united states and self-regulatory organizations such as finra, as further described above under part i, item 1 - business (regulation) of this report. we are also subject to trade sanctions laws relating to countries such as cuba, iran, russia, sudan and syria, and anti-corruption laws such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act 2010. we are subject to numerous other laws on matters as diverse as internal and disclosure controls and procedures, securities regulation, data privacy and protection, taxation, anti-trust, immigration, wage-and-hour standards and employment and labor relations. the u.s. and foreign laws and regulations that apply to our operations are complex, and our efforts to comply with these myriad laws and regulations require significant resources. in some cases, these laws and regulations may impose operational limitations on our business, including on the products and services we may offer or on the rates we may charge for our products and services. while we attempt to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that we, our employees, our consultants and our contractors and other agents are in full compliance with such laws and regulations or interpretations at all times, or that we will be able to comply with any future laws or regulations. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including those referred to above, we may be subject to investigations, criminal penalties or civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, loss of an operating license or approval, increased scrutiny or oversight by regulatory authorities, the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in a particular business or redress to clients. the cost of compliance and the consequences of non-compliance could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, a failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on the company by exposing us to negative publicity and reputational damage or by harming our client or employee relationships. in most jurisdictions, government regulatory authorities have the power to interpret and amend applicable laws and regulations, and have discretion to grant, renew and revoke the various licenses and approvals we need to conduct our activities. such authorities may require the company to incur substantial costs in order to comply with such laws and regulations. in some areas of our businesses, we act on the basis of our own or the industry ' interpretations of applicable laws or regulations, which may conflict from state to state or country to country. in the event those interpretations eventually prove different from the interpretations of regulatory authorities, we may be penalized or precluded from carrying on our previous activities. moreover, the laws and regulations to which we are subject may conflict among the various jurisdictions and countries in which we operate, which increases the likelihood of our businesses being non-compliant in one or more jurisdictions. we could incur significant liability or our reputation could be damaged if our information systems are breached or we otherwise fail to protect client or company data or information systems. we rely on the efficient, uninterrupted and secure operation of complex information technology systems and networks to operate our business and securely process, transmit and store electronic information. information technology systems are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of sources, including cyber-attacks, computer viruses and other malware, ransomware and other types of security breaches. our systems are also subject to compromise from improper action by employees, vendors and other third parties with otherwise legitimate access to our systems. we could experience significant harm if our information systems are breached, or sensitive client or company data are compromised. we are at risk of attack by a growing list of adversaries, be it state-sponsored organizations, organized crime, hackers or "hactivists" (activist hackers), through use of increasingly sophisticated methods of attack, including long-term, persistent attacks referred to as advanced persistent threats. because the 13 techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not identified until they are launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures, resulting in potential data loss or other damage to information technology systems. as the breadth and complexity of our infrastructure continues to grow, including as a result of the use of mobile technologies, cloud services, social media and the increased reliance on devices connected to the internet (known as the "internet of things"), the potential risk of security breaches and cyberattacks also increases. although encryption is growing in use as a means to protect data from theft, we may not be able to encrypt the data across our diverse systems. should an attacker gain access to our network using compromised credentials of an authorized user, we are at risk that the attacker might successfully leverage that access to compromise additional systems and data. certain measures that could increase the security of our infrastructure, such as data encryption or deployment of multi-factor authentication, take significant time and resources to deploy broadly. the inability to implement, maintain and upgrade adequate safeguards could have a material adverse effect on our business. due to the large number of systems and platforms that we operate, the increased frequency at which vendors issue security patches to their products and the need to test patches and, in some cases coordinate with clients and vendors, before they can be deployed, we are at risk that we cannot deploy patches in a timely manner. we are also dependent on third party vendors like cloud service providers to keep their systems patched in order to protect our data. if we, our clients and our vendors are unable to keep our systems patched in a timely manner, our systems may be breached, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we have numerous vendors and other third parties who receive personal information from us in connection with the services we offer our clients. a small percentage of them have direct access to our systems. we are at risk of a cyber-attack involving a vendor or other third party, which could result in a breakdown of its data protection processes or the cyber-attackers gaining access to our infrastructure through the third party. to the extent that a vendor or third party suffers a cyberattack that compromises their operations, we could incur significant costs and possible service interruption, which could have an adverse effect on our business. we have a history of making acquisitions, including 92 acquisitions in the period from 2009-2015. the process of integrating the information systems of the businesses we acquire is complex and exposes us to additional risk. for instance, we may not adequately identify weaknesses in the target's information systems, either before or after the acquisition, which could affect the value we are able to derive from the acquisition, expose us to unexpected liabilities or make our own systems more vulnerable to a cyber-attack. we may also be unable to integrate the systems of the businesses we acquire into our environment in a timely manner, which could further increase these risks until such integration takes place. our policies, procedures and technical safeguards may be insufficient to prevent or detect improper access to confidential, personal or proprietary information by employees, vendors or other third parties with otherwise legitimate access to our systems. improper access to or disclosure of sensitive client or company information could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under our contracts, as well as under existing or future laws, rules and regulations, resulting in increased legal and other costs and harm to our reputation and our business. we have from time to time experienced data incidents and cybersecurity breaches, such as malware incursions (including computer viruses and ransomware), users exceeding their data access authorization, employee misconduct, and incidents resulting from human error, such as loss of portable and other data storage devices. like many companies, we are subject to regular phishing email campaigns directed at our employees that can result in malware infections and data losses. although these incidents have resulted in data loss and other damages, to date, they have not had a material adverse effect on our business or operations. in the future, these types of incidents could result in confidential, personal or proprietary information being lost or stolen, including client, employee or company data, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we also may be unable to detect an incident, assess its severity or impact, or appropriately respond in a timely manner. 14 privacy laws are proliferating and changing frequently, at times in a manner that creates conflicting demands. we may not be in compliance with all applicable u.s. federal and state or foreign privacy and data protection laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. in providing services and solutions to clients, we store sensitive client or company data, including personal data, in multiple jurisdictions. we leverage systems and applications that are spread all over the world requiring us to regularly move data across national borders. we expect these activities to increase in scope and complexity. as a result, we are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect personal data, such as the national laws implementing the european union's data protection directive and various u.s. federal and state laws governing the protection of health or other personally identifiable information. these laws and regulations are frequently changing and are becoming increasingly complex and sometimes conflict among the various jurisdictions and countries in which we provide services. for example, the european union has just reached an agreement on a new general data protection regulation (the gdpr) that greatly increases the jurisdictional reach of its laws and adds a broad array of requirements for handling personal data, such as privacy impact assessments, data portability and the appointment of data protection officers in some cases. other countries are passing data localization laws that require data to stay within their borders. all of these evolving compliance and operational requirements impose significant costs that are likely to increase over time. unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or company data, whether through systems failure, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, could subject us to significant litigation, monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions, fines and criminal prosecution in one or more jurisdictions. under the gdpr, certain violations may trigger a fine of up to 4% of a corporation's global annual revenue. such events could also result in negative publicity and damage to our reputation, and cause us to lose clients, and could therefore have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our liability insurance, which includes cyber insurance, may not be sufficient in type or amount to cover us against claims related to security breaches, cyberattacks and other related breaches. financial risks our pension obligations could cause the company ' financial position, earnings and cash flows to fluctuate. the company has significant pension obligations to its current and former employees, totaling approximately $14.8 billion, and related plan assets of approximately $14.0 billion, at december 31, 2015. the company ' policy for funding its tax-qualified defined benefit retirement plans is to contribute amounts at least sufficient to meet the funding requirements set forth by u.s. law and the laws of the non-u.s. jurisdictions in which the company offers defined benefit plans. in the united states, contributions to the tax-qualified defined benefit plans are based on erisa guidelines. contribution rates for non-u.s. plans are generally based on local funding practices and statutory requirements, which may differ from measurements under u.s. gaap. in the united kingdom, for example, contributions to defined benefit pension plans are based on statutory requirements and are determined through a negotiation process between the company and the plans' trustee. this negotiation process is governed by u.k. pension regulations. certain of the assumptions that result from the funding negotiations are different from those used for u.s. gaap and currently result in a lower funded status than under u.s. gaap. during 2015, the company contributed $29 million to its u.s. pension plans and $166 million to its non-u.s. pension plans. the calculations relating to our defined benefit pension plans are complex. as indicated in note 8 to our consolidated financial statements, pension plan assets and liabilities, periodic pension expense and future funding amounts are affected by future asset performance, the assumed interest rates we use to discount our pension liabilities, rates of inflation, mortality assumptions and other variables. given the magnitude of our worldwide pension plans, variations in or reassessment of the preceding factors or potential miscalculations relating to our defined benefit pension plans could cause significant fluctuation from year to year in our earnings and cash flow, as well as our pension plan assets, liabilities and equity, and may result in increased levels of contributions to our pension plans. 15 our results of operations could be adversely affected by macroeconomic conditions and political events around the world and the effects of these conditions and events on our clients ' businesses and levels of business activity. macroeconomic conditions and political events around the world affect our clients ' businesses and the markets they serve. these conditions may reduce demand for our services or depress pricing for those services, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. changes in macroeconomic and political conditions could also shift demand to services for which we do not have a competitive advantage, and this could negatively affect the amount of business that we are able to obtain. if the demand for our products and services declines as a result of macroeconomic conditions, political events or other factors, we may be required to restructure our business, which could adversely affect our ability to execute our business strategy. our investments, including our minority investments in other companies as well as our cash investments and those held in a fiduciary capacity, are subject to general credit, liquidity, counterparty, market and interest rate risks. these may be exacerbated by global macroeconomic conditions, market volatility and regulatory, financial and other difficulties affecting the companies in which we have invested or that may be faced by financial institution counterparties. during times of stress in the banking industry, counterparty risk can quickly escalate, potentially resulting in substantial trading and investment losses for corporate and other investors. in addition, we may incur investment losses as a result of unusual and unpredictable market developments, and we may continue to experience reduced investment earnings if the yields on investments deemed to be low risk remain at or near their current low levels. if the banking system or the fixed income, interest rate, credit or equity markets deteriorate, the value and liquidity of our investments could be adversely affected. our significant non-u.s. operations expose us to exchange rate fluctuations and various risks that could impact our business. we are subject to exchange rate movement because some of our subsidiaries receive revenue other than in their functional currencies and because we must translate the financial results of our foreign subsidiaries into u.s. dollars. our u.s. operations earn revenue and incur expenses primarily in u.s. dollars. in certain jurisdictions, however, our risk and insurance services operations generate revenue in a number of different currencies, but expenses are almost entirely incurred in local currency. due to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, we are subject to economic exposure as well as currency translation exposure on the profits of our operations. because the non-u.s. based revenue that is exposed to foreign exchange fluctuations is approximately 51% of total revenue, exchange rate movement can have a significant impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. for additional discussion, see "market risk and credit risk-foreign currency risk" in part ii, item 7a ("quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk") of this report. we may not be able to receive dividends or other distributions in needed amounts from our subsidiaries. the company is organized as a legal entity separate and distinct from our operating subsidiaries. because we do not have significant operations of our own, we are dependent upon dividends and other payments from our operating subsidiaries to meet our obligations for paying principal and interest on outstanding debt obligations, paying dividends to stockholders, repurchasing our common stock under our share repurchase program and paying corporate expenses. in the event our operating subsidiaries are unable to pay sufficient dividends and make other payments to the company, we may not be able to service our debt, pay dividends on or repurchase our common stock or meet our other obligations. further, the company derives a significant portion of its revenue and operating profit from operating subsidiaries located outside the united states. funds from current year's earnings of the company's non-u.s. operating subsidiaries are regularly repatriated to the united states. a number of factors could arise that could limit our ability to repatriate funds or could make repatriation cost-prohibitive, including, but not limited to, the imposition of currency controls and other government restrictions on repatriation in the jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, the imposition of withholding and other taxes on such payments and our ability to repatriate earnings in a tax-efficient manner. 16 in the event we are unable to generate or repatriate cash from our operating subsidiaries for any of the reasons discussed above, our overall liquidity could deteriorate and our ability to finance our obligations, including to pay dividends on or repurchase our common stock, could be adversely affected . credit rating downgrades would increase our financing costs and could subject us to operational risk. currently, the company's senior debt is rated a- by s&amp;p and baa1 by moody's. the ratings from both s&amp;p and moody's currently carry a stable outlook. if we need to raise capital in the future (for example, in order to fund maturing debt obligations or finance acquisitions or other initiatives), credit rating downgrades would increase our financing costs, and could limit our access to financing sources. further, we believe that a downgrade to a rating below investment-grade could result in greater operational risks through increased operating costs and increased competitive pressures. our quarterly revenues and profitability may fluctuate significantly. quarterly variations in revenues and operating results may occur due to several factors. these include: the significance of client engagements commenced and completed during a quarter; the possibility that clients may decide to delay or terminate a current or anticipated project as a result of factors unrelated to our work product or progress; fluctuations in hiring and utilization rates and clients ' ability to terminate engagements without penalty; seasonality due to the impact of regulatory deadlines, policy renewals and other timing factors to which our clients are subject; the success of our acquisitions or investments; macroeconomic factors such as changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and global securities markets, particularly in the case of mercer, where fees in its investments business and certain other business lines are derived from the value of assets under management or administration; and general economic conditions, since results of operations are directly affected by the levels of business activity of our clients, which in turn are affected by the level of economic activity in the industries and markets that they serve. a significant portion of our total operating expenses is relatively fixed in the short term. therefore, a variation in the number of client assignments or in the timing of the initiation or the completion of client assignments can cause significant variations in quarterly operating results for these businesses. if we are unable to collect our receivables, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. our business depends on our ability to successfully obtain payment from our clients of the amounts they owe us for the work we perform. accounts receivable typically total about one-quarter of our total annual revenues. in most cases, we bill and collect on relatively short cycles. there is no guarantee that we will accurately assess the creditworthiness of our clients. macroeconomic conditions could result in financial difficulties for our clients, which could cause clients to delay payments to us, request modifications to their payment arrangements that could increase our receivables balance or default on their payment obligations to us. timely collection of client balances also depends on our ability to complete our contractual commitments and bill and collect our contracted revenues. if we are unable to meet our contractual requirements, we might experience delays in collection of, or be unable to collect, our client balances, and if this occurs, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. in addition, if we experience an increase in the time it takes to bill and collect for our services, our cash flows could be adversely affected. 17 market perceptions concerning the instability of the euro could adversely affect the company's operating results as well as the value of the company's euro-denominated assets. concerns persist regarding the ability of certain eurozone countries to service their debt obligations. as a result, a number of these countries have undertaken a variety of actions, such as cutting spending and raising taxes, designed to ease their future debt burdens. a potential consequence may be stagnant growth, or even recession, in the eurozone economies and beyond. any of these developments could lead to further contraction in the eurozone economies, adversely affecting our operating results in the region. the company may also face increased credit risk as our clients and financial institution counterparties in the region find themselves with reduced resources to meet their obligations. finally, the value of the company's assets held in the eurozone, including cash holdings, will decline if the currency devalues. global operations we are exposed to multiple risks associated with the global nature of our operations. we do business worldwide. in 2015, 51% of the company ' total revenue was generated from operations outside the united states, and over one-half of our employees were located outside the united states. we expect to expand our non-u.s. operations further. the geographic breadth of our activities subjects us to significant legal, economic, operational, market, compliance and reputational risks. these include, among others, risks relating to: economic and political conditions in the countries in which we operate; unexpected increases in taxes or changes in u.s. or foreign tax laws or rulings; withholding or other taxes that foreign governments may impose on the payment of dividends or other remittances to us from our non-u.s. subsidiaries; potential transfer pricing-related tax exposures that may result from the allocation of u.s.-based costs that benefit our non-u.s. businesses; potential conflicts of interest that may arise as we expand the scope of our businesses and our client base; international hostilities, terrorist activities, natural disasters and infrastructure disruptions; local investment or other financial restrictions that foreign governments may impose; potential costs and difficulties in complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations (including tax systems) administered by foreign government agencies, some of which may conflict with u.s. or other sources of law; potential costs and difficulties in complying, or monitoring compliance, with foreign and u.s. laws and regulations that are applicable to our operations abroad, including trade sanctions laws relating to countries such as cuba, iran, russia, sudan and syria and anti-corruption laws such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act 2010; limitations or restrictions that foreign or u.s. governments and regulators may impose on the products or services we sell or the methods by which we sell our products and services; limitations that foreign governments may impose on the conversion of currency or the payment of dividends or other remittances to us from our non-u.s. subsidiaries; the length of payment cycles and potential difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; engaging and relying on third parties to perform services on behalf of the company; and potential difficulties in monitoring employees in geographically dispersed locations. 18 our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem could cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as an earthquake, hurricane, flood, terrorist attack, pandemic, security breach, cyber attack, power loss, telecommunications failure or other natural or man-made disaster, our ability to continue to operate will depend, in part, on the availability of our personnel, our office facilities and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. in such an event, we could experience operational challenges that could have a material adverse effect on our business. our operations depend upon our ability to protect our technology infrastructure against damage from events that could have a significant disruptive effect. we could potentially lose client or company data or experience material adverse interruptions to our operations or delivery of services to our clients in a disaster recovery scenario. in particular, a cyber-attack on us or a key vendor or supplier could result in a significant and extended disruption in the functioning of our information technology systems or operations, requiring us to incur significant expense to address and remediate or otherwise resolve such issues. an extended service outage may result in the loss of clients and a decline in our revenues. we regularly assess and take steps to improve our existing business continuity plans and key management succession. however, a disaster or other continuity event on a significant scale or affecting certain of our key operating areas within or across regions, or our inability to successfully recover from such an event, could materially interrupt our business operations and result in material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, damaged client relationships and legal liability. competitive risks each of the company ' businesses operates in a highly competitive environment. if we fail to compete effectively against our competitors, some of which have lower effective tax rates, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be impacted adversely. as a global professional services firm, the company faces acute and continuous competition in each of its operating segments. our ability to compete successfully depends on a variety of factors, including the quality and expertise of our colleagues, our geographic reach, the sophistication and quality of our services, our pricing relative to competitors, our customers ' ability to self-insure or use internal resources instead of consultants and our ability to respond to changes in client demand and industry conditions. some of our competitors may have greater financial resources, or may be better positioned to respond to technological and other changes in the industries we serve, and they may be able to compete more effectively. if we are unable to respond successfully to the competition we face, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely impacted. in addition, given the global breadth of our operations, the company derives a significant portion of its revenue and operating profit from operating subsidiaries located outside the united states. funds from the company ' non-u.s. operating subsidiaries are regularly repatriated to the united states out of annual earnings to pay dividends to stockholders, fund share repurchases and for other corporate purposes. the company ' consolidated tax rate is higher than a number of its key competitors that are domiciled outside the united states where corporate tax rates are lower than the u.s. statutory tax rate. the higher consolidated tax rate at which our earnings are taxed could have an adverse impact on our ability to compete with a number of our competitors. in our risk and insurance services segment, in addition to the challenges posed by capital market alternatives to traditional insurance and reinsurance, we compete intensely against a wide range of other insurance and reinsurance brokerage firms that operate on a global, regional, national or local scale for both client business and employee talent. we compete as well with insurance and reinsurance companies that market and service their insurance products without the assistance of brokers or other market intermediaries, and with various other companies that provide risk-related services or alternatives to traditional brokerage services. this competition is intensified by an industry trend toward a syndicated or distributed approach to the purchase of insurance and reinsurance brokerage services, whereby a client engages multiple brokers to service different portions of the client ' account. 19 in our consulting segment, we compete for business and employee talent with numerous consulting firms and organizations affiliated with accounting, information systems, technology and financial services firms around the world. through these affiliations, such competitors may be able to offer more comprehensive products and services to potential clients, which may give them a competitive advantage. the loss of key professionals could hurt our ability to retain existing client revenues and generate revenues from new business. across all of our businesses, our colleagues are critical to developing and retaining the client relationships performing the service on which our revenues depend. it is therefore important for us to retain significant revenue-producing employees and the key managerial and other professionals who support them. we face numerous challenges in this regard, including the intense competition for talent in all of our businesses and the general mobility of professionals in our businesses. losing employees who manage or support substantial client relationships or possess substantial experience or expertise could adversely affect our ability to secure and complete client engagements, which could adversely affect our results of operations. and, subject to applicable restrictive covenants, if any of our key professionals were to join an existing competitor or form a competing company, some of our clients could choose to use the services of that competitor instead of our services. our businesses face rapid technological changes and our failure to adequately anticipate or respond to these changes or to successfully implement strategic initiatives to address them could adversely affect our business and results of operations. to remain competitive in many of our business areas, we must anticipate and respond effectively to the threat of digital disruption and other technological change. we must also identify relevant technologies and methodologies and integrate them into our product and service offerings. we may not be able to do this effectively. we have a number of strategic initiatives involving investments in technology systems and infrastructure to support our growth strategy. in addition to new platforms and systems, we are deploying new processes and many of our colleagues across the business are changing the way they perform certain roles to capture efficiencies. in some cases, we depend on key vendors and partners to provide technology and other support for our strategic initiatives. if these vendors or partners fail to perform their obligations or otherwise cease to work with us, our ability to execute on our strategic initiatives could be adversely affected. if we do not keep up with technological changes or execute well on our strategic initiatives, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted. consolidation in the industries we serve could adversely affect our business. companies in the industries that we serve may seek to achieve economies of scale and other synergies by combining with or acquiring other companies. if two or more of our current clients merge or consolidate and combine their operations, it may decrease the amount of work that we perform for these clients. if one of our current clients merges or consolidates with a company that relies on another provider for its services, we may lose work from that client or lose the opportunity to gain additional work. any of these or similar possible results of industry consolidation could adversely affect our business. guy carpenter is especially susceptible to this risk given the limited number of insurance company clients and reinsurers in the marketplace. acquisitions and dispositions we face risks when we acquire and dispose of businesses. we have a history of making acquisitions, including a total of 92 acquisitions in the period 2009-2015 for aggregate purchase consideration of $4.2 billion. we expect that acquisitions will continue to be a key part of our business strategy. our success in this regard will depend on our ability to identify and compete for appropriate acquisition candidates and to complete with favorable results the transactions we decide to pursue. while we intend that our acquisitions will improve our competitiveness and profitability, we cannot be certain that our past or future acquisitions will be accretive to earnings or otherwise meet our operational or strategic expectations. acquisitions involve special risks, including accounting, regulatory, compliance, information technology or human resources issues that could arise in connection with, or as a result of, 20 the acquisition of the acquired company; the assumption of unanticipated liabilities and contingencies; difficulties in integrating acquired businesses; and the inability of acquired businesses to achieve the levels of revenue, profit or productivity we anticipate or otherwise perform as we expect. in addition, if in the future, the performance of our reporting units or an acquired business varies from our projections or assumptions, or estimates about future profitability of our reporting units or an acquired business change, the estimated fair value of our reporting units or an acquired business could change materially and could result in an impairment of goodwill and other acquisition-related intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet or in adjustments in contingent payment amounts. as of december 31, 2015, the company ' consolidated balance sheet reflected $8.9 billion of goodwill and intangible assets, representing approximately 49% of the company ' total consolidated assets and allocated by reporting segment as follows: risk and insurance services, $6.5 billion and consulting, $2.4 billion. given the significant size of the company ' goodwill and intangible assets, an impairment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any given period. when we dispose of businesses, we are subject to the risk, contractually agreed or otherwise, that we will continue to be subject to the liabilities of that business after its disposition. for example, as described in note 15 to our consolidated financial statements included under part ii, item 8 of this report, we have retained certain contingent litigation liabilities relating to our disposition of kroll. risks relating to our risk and insurance services segment our risk and insurance services segment, conducted through marsh and guy carpenter, represented 53% of the company ' total revenue in 2015. our business in this segment is subject to particular risks. results in our risk and insurance services segment may be adversely affected by a general decline in economic activity. demand for many types of insurance and reinsurance generally rises or falls as economic growth expands or slows. this dynamic affects the level of commissions and fees generated by marsh and guy carpenter. to the extent our clients become adversely affected by declining business conditions, they may choose to limit their purchases of insurance and reinsurance coverage, as applicable, which would inhibit our ability to generate commission revenue. also, the insurance they seek to obtain through us may be impacted by changes in their assets, property values, sales or number of employees, which may reduce our commission revenue, and they may decide not to purchase our risk advisory services, which would inhibit our ability to generate fee revenue. moreover, insolvencies and combinations associated with an economic downturn, especially insolvencies and combinations in the insurance industry, could adversely affect our brokerage business through the loss of clients or by hampering our ability to place insurance and reinsurance business. guy carpenter is especially susceptible to this risk given the limited number of insurance company clients and reinsurers in the market place. allegations of conflicts of interest, adverse legal developments and future regulations concerning compensation we receive from insurers could have a material adverse effect on marsh's business, results of operations and financial condition. the method by which insurance intermediaries are compensated has received substantial scrutiny from regulators in the past because of the potential for conflicts of interest. the potential for conflicts of interest arises when an intermediary is compensated by two parties in connection with the same or similar transactions. the vast majority of the compensation that marsh receives is in the form of retail commissions and fees that are paid by the client or paid from premium that is paid by the client. the amount of compensation that we receive from insurance companies, separate from retail commissions and fees, has increased significantly in the last several years, both organically and through acquisition. this compensation includes payment for, among other things (i) consulting and analytics services provided to insurers and (ii) administrative and other services provided to or on behalf of insurers (including services relating to the administration and management of quota shares, panels and other facilities in which insurers participate). it also takes the form of contingent commission, which is paid by insurers based on the attainment of specified goals relating to marsh's placements, particularly at marsh &amp; mclennan agency and in parts of marsh's international operations. future changes in the regulatory environment may impact our ability to collect these revenue streams. in addition, these revenues present potential regulatory, litigation and reputational risks that may arise from alleged conflicts of interest or 21 allegations under antitrust, competition and other laws. adverse regulatory, legal or other developments regarding these revenues could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition, expose us to negative publicity and reputational damage and harm our client, insurer or other relationships. volatility or declines in premiums and other market trends may significantly impede our ability to improve revenues and profitability. a significant portion of our risk and insurance services revenue consists of commissions paid to us out of the premiums that insurers and reinsurers charge our clients for coverage. our revenues and profitability are subject to change to the extent that premium rates fluctuate or trend in a particular direction. the potential for changes in premium rates is significant, due to the general phenomenon of pricing cyclicality in the commercial insurance and reinsurance markets. in addition to movements in premium rates, our ability to generate premium-based commission revenue may be challenged by the growing availability of alternative methods for clients to meet their risk-protection needs. this trend includes a greater willingness on the part of corporations to "self-insure," the use of so-called "captive" insurers, and the advent of capital markets-based solutions to traditional insurance and reinsurance needs. further, the profitability of our risk and insurances services segment depends in part on our ability to be compensated, not only for insurance and reinsurance transactions, but also for the increasing analytical services and advice that we provide. if we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate billing rates for all of our services, our margins and profitability could decline. risks relating to our consulting segment our consulting segment, conducted through mercer and oliver wyman group, represented 47% of our total revenue in 2015. our businesses in this segment are subject to particular risks. revenues for our services may decline for various reasons, including as a result of changes in economic conditions, the value of equity, debt and other asset markets, our clients' or an industry's financial condition or government regulation. global economic conditions over the past several years have negatively affected businesses and financial institutions. many of our clients, including financial institutions, corporations, government entities and pension plans, have been reducing expenses, including amounts spent on consulting services. the evolving needs and financial circumstances of our clients may reduce demand for our services and our revenues and profitability. if the economy or markets in which we operate experience continued weakness at current levels or deteriorate further, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, some segments of mercer's investments business generate fees based upon the value of the clients' assets under management or advisement. changes in the value of equity, debt, currency, real estate, commodities or other asset classes could cause the value of assets under management or advisement, and the fees received by mercer, to decline. such changes could also cause clients to withdraw funds from mercer's investment business in favor of other asset management strategies. in either case, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. demand for many of mercer's benefits services is affected by government regulation and tax rules, which drive our clients' needs for benefits-related services. significant changes in government regulations affecting the value, use or delivery of benefits and human resources programs, including changes in regulations relating to health and welfare plans, defined contribution plans or defined benefit plans, may adversely affect the demand for or profitability of mercer's services. factors affecting defined benefit pension plans and the services we provide relating to those plans could adversely affect mercer. mercer currently provides corporate, multi-employer and public clients with actuarial, consulting and administration services relating to defined benefit pension plans. the nature of our work is complex. our actuarial services involve numerous assumptions and estimates regarding future events, including interest rates used to discount future liabilities, estimated rates of return for a plan's assets, healthcare cost trends, salary projections and participants' life expectancies. our consulting services involve the 22 drafting and interpretation of trust deeds and other complex documentation governing pension plans. our administration services include calculating benefits within complicated pension plan structures. clients dissatisfied with our services have brought, and may bring, significant claims against us, particularly in the united states and the united kingdom. in addition, a number of mercer's clients have frozen or curtailed their defined benefit plans and have moved to defined contribution plans resulting in reduced revenue for mercer's retirement business. these developments could adversely affect mercer's business and operating results. mercer's investment business is subject to a number of risks, including risks related to third-party investment managers, operational risk, conflicts of interest, asset performance and regulatory compliance, that, if realized, could result in significant damage to our business. mercer's investment business provides clients with investment consulting and investment management (referred to as "delegated solutions") services. in the investment consulting business, clients make and implement their own investment policy decisions based upon advice provided by mercer. in its delegated solutions business, mercer implements the client's investment policy by engaging and overseeing independent investment managers who determine which securities to buy and sell (typically through the client's investment in mercer's "manager of managers" funds). mercer's investment business is subject to a number of risks, including risks related to third-parties, our operations, conflicts of interest, asset performance and regulatory compliance, which could arise in connection with these offerings. for example, mercer's due diligence on an investment manager may fail to uncover material deficiencies or fraud that could result in investment losses to a client. there is a risk that mercer will fail to properly implement a client's investment policy, which could cause an incorrect or untimely allocation of client assets among investment managers or strategies. mercer may also be perceived as recommending certain investment managers to clients, or offering delegated solutions to an investment consulting client, solely to enhance its own compensation. asset classes may perform poorly, or investment managers may underperform their benchmarks, due to poor market performance, negligence or other reasons, resulting in poor returns or loss of client capital. these risks, if realized, could result in significant liability and damage our business. our profitability may decline if we are unable to achieve or maintain adequate utilization and pricing rates for our consultants. the profitability of our consulting businesses depends in part on ensuring that our consultants maintain adequate utilization rates (i.e., the percentage of our consultants' working hours devoted to billable activities). our utilization rates are affected by a number of factors, including: our ability to transition consultants promptly from completed projects to new assignments, and to engage newly-hired consultants quickly in revenue-generating activities; our ability to continually secure new business engagements, particularly because a portion of our work is project-based rather than recurring in nature; our ability to forecast demand for our services and thereby maintain appropriate headcount in each of our geographies and workforces; our ability to manage attrition; unanticipated changes in the scope of client engagements; the potential for conflicts of interest that might require us to decline client engagements that we otherwise would have accepted; our need to devote time and resources to sales, training, professional development and other non-billable activities; the potential disruptive impact of acquisitions and dispositions; and general economic conditions. if the utilization rate for our consulting professionals declines, our profit margin and profitability could decline. 23 in addition, the profitability of our consulting businesses depends in part on the prices we are able to charge for our services. the prices we charge are affected by a number of factors, including: clients ' perception of our ability to add value through our services; market demand for the services we provide; our ability to develop new services and the introduction of new services by competitors; the pricing policies of our competitors; the extent to which our clients develop in-house or other capabilities to perform the services that they might otherwise purchase from us; and general economic conditions. if we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate billing rates for our services, our profit margin and profitability could decline. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk and credit risk certain of the company's revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and equity markets. interest rate risk and credit risk interest income generated from the company's cash investments as well as invested fiduciary funds will vary with the general level of interest rates. the company had the following investments subject to variable interest rates: (in millions of dollars) december 31, 2015 cash and cash equivalents invested in money market funds, certificates of deposit and time deposits $ 1,374 fiduciary cash and investments $ 4,146 based on the above balances, if short-term interest rates increased or decreased by 10%, or 6 basis points, over the course of the year, annual interest income, including interest earned on fiduciary funds, would increase or decrease by approximately $2 million. in addition to interest rate risk, our cash investments and fiduciary fund investments are subject to potential loss of value due to counter-party credit risk. to minimize this risk, the company and its subsidiaries invest pursuant to a board approved investment policy. the policy mandates the preservation of principal and liquidity and requires broad diversification with counter-party limits assigned based primarily on credit rating and type of investment. the company carefully monitors its cash and fiduciary fund investments and will further restrict the portfolio as appropriate to market conditions. the majority of cash and fiduciary fund investments are invested in short-term bank deposits and liquid money market funds. foreign currency risk the translated values of revenue and expense from the company's international operations are subject to fluctuations due to changes in currency exchange rates. the non-u.s. based revenue that is exposed to foreign exchange fluctuations is approximately 51% of total revenue. we periodically use forward contracts and options to limit foreign currency exchange rate exposure on net income and cash flows for specific, clearly defined transactions arising in the ordinary course of business. although the company has significant revenue generated in foreign locations which is subject to foreign exchange rate fluctuations, in most cases both the foreign currency revenue and expenses are in the functional currency of the foreign location. as such, under normal circumstances, the u.s. dollar translation of both the revenues and expenses, as well as the potentially offsetting movements of various currencies against the u.s. dollar, generally tends to mitigate the impact on net operating income of foreign currency risk. if foreign exchange rates of major currencies (euro, sterling, australian dollar and canadian dollar) moved 10% in the same direction against the u.s. dollar compared with the foreign exchange rates in 2015, the company estimates net operating income would increase or decrease by approximately $50 million. the company has exposure to approximately 80 foreign currencies overall. starting at the end of 2014 and continuing through 2015, the u.s. dollar strengthened significantly against most currencies, which had a significant impact on net operating income in 2015. if exchange rates at january 31, 2016 hold constant throughout 2016, the company estimates the year-over-year impact from conversion of foreign currency earnings will reduce full year income by approximately $50 million. in continental europe, the largest amount of revenue from renewals for the risk &amp; insurance segment occurs in the first quarter. consequently, a significant portion of the year-over-year foreign exchange impact is expected to occur in the first quarter. 45 equity price risk the company holds investments in both public and private companies as well as private equity funds that invest primarily in financial services companies. investments of approximately $20 million are classified as available for sale, approximately $76 million are accounted for using the cost method, which includes the company's investment in benefitfocus, and $347 million are accounted for using the equity method, which includes the company's investments in alexander forbes. the investments are subject to risk of changes in market value, which, if determined to be other than temporary, could result in realized impairment losses. the company periodically reviews the carrying value of such investments to determine if any valuation adjustments are appropriate under the applicable accounting pronouncements. at december 31, 2015, the carrying value of the company's investment in alexander forbes, purchased at 7.50 south african rand per share, was approximately $230 million. the market value of the company's shares, based on the closing share price of 5.78 rand per share, was approximately $166 million. during 2015, the share price of alexander forbes ranged from 10.38 rand to 5.32 rand. the trading price first dropped below mmc's purchase price at the end of november 2015. the company considered several factors related to its investment in alexander forbes, including its financial position, the near- and long-term prospects of alexander forbes and the broader south african economy and capital markets, the length of time and extent to which the market value was below cost, and the company's intent and ability to retain the investment for a sufficient period of time to allow for anticipated recovery in market value. as a result, the company determined the investment was not impaired. other a number of lawsuits and regulatory proceedings are pending. see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report. 46risk factors you should consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information presented in this report. these risks have the potential to materially adversely affect the company's business, results of operations or financial condition. risks relating to the company generally legal and regulatory risks we are subject to significant uninsured exposures arising from errors and omissions, breach of fiduciary duty and similar claims. our operating companies provide numerous professional services, including the placement of insurance and the provision of consulting, investment advisory and actuarial services, to clients around the world. as a result, the company and its subsidiaries are subject to a significant number of errors and omissions, breach of fiduciary duty and similar claims, which we refer to collectively as "e&amp;o claims." in our risk and insurance services segment, such claims include allegations of damages arising from our failure to assess clients' risks, advise clients, place coverage or notify insurers of potential claims on behalf of clients in accordance with our obligations to them. in our consulting segment, where we increasingly act in a fiduciary capacity through our investments business, such claims include allegations of damages arising from the provision of consulting, investments, actuarial, pension administration and other services. these services frequently involve complex calculations and other analysis, including (i) making assumptions about, and preparing estimates concerning , contingent future events, (ii) drafting and interpreting complex documentation governing pension plans, (iii) calculating benefits within complex pension structures , (iv) providing investment advice, including guidance on asset allocation and investment strategy, and (v) managing client assets, including the selection of investment managers. these matters often relate to services provided by the company dating back many years. such claims may subject us to significant liability for monetary damages, including punitive and treble damages, negative publicity and reputational harm , and may divert personnel and management resources. we may be unable to effectively limit our potential liability in certain jurisdictions, including through insurance, or in connection with certain types of claims, particularly those concerning claims of a breach of fiduciary duty. in establishing liabilities for e&amp;o claims in accordance with fasb asc subtopic no. 450-20 (contingencies - loss contingencies), the company uses case level reviews by inside and outside counsel, an internal actuarial analysis by oliver wyman group, a subsidiary of the company, and other methods to estimate potential losses. a liability is established when a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable. the liability is reviewed quarterly and adjusted as developments warrant. in many cases, the company has not recorded a liability, other than for legal fees to defend the claim, because we are unable, at the present time, to make a determination that a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable. given the challenges inherent in establishing liabilities in accordance with fasb asc subtopic no. 450-20, as well as the unpredictability of e&amp;o claims and the litigation that can flow from them, it is possible that an adverse outcome in a particular matter could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, results of operations or financial condition in a given quarterly or annual period. further, and as more fully described in note 15 to our consolidated financial statements included under part ii, item 8 of this report, we are subject to legal proceedings, regulatory investigations and other contingencies other than e&amp;o claims which, if determined unfavorably to us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. we cannot guarantee that we are or will be in compliance with all current and potentially applicable u.s. federal and state or foreign laws and regulations, and actions by regulatory authorities or changes in legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business. our activities are subject to extensive regulation under the laws of the united states and its various states, the european union and its member states and the other jurisdictions in which we operate. for example, we are subject to regulation by agencies such as the securities and exchange commission in the united states and the financial conduct authority (the fca ) in the united kingdom, state insurance regulators in the united states and self-regulatory organizations such as finra, as further described 12 above under part i, item 1 - business (regulation) of this report. we are also subject to trade sanctions laws relating to countries such as cuba, iran, russia, sudan and syria, and anti-corruption laws such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. anti-bribery act. we are subject to numerous other laws on matters as diverse as internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, securities regulation, data privacy and protection, taxation, anti-trust, immigration, wage-and-hour standards and employment and labor relations. the u.s. and foreign laws and regulations that apply to our operations are complex, and our efforts to comply with them require significant resources. in some cases, these laws and regulations may impose operational limitations on our business, including on the products and services we may offer or on the amount or type of compensation we may collect. while we attempt to comply with applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that we, our employees, our consultants and our contractors and other agents are in full compliance with such laws and regulations or interpretations at all times, or that we will be able to comply with any future laws or regulations. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including those referred to above, we may be subject to investigations, criminal penalties or civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, loss of an operating license or approval, increased scrutiny or oversight by regulatory authorities, the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in a particular business or redress to clients. the cost of compliance and the consequences of non-compliance could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, a failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on the company by exposing us to negative publicity and reputational damage or by harming our client or employee relationships. in most jurisdictions, government regulatory authorities have the power to interpret and amend applicable laws and regulations, and have discretion to grant, renew and revoke the various licenses and approvals we need to conduct our activities. such authorities may require the company to incur substantial costs in order to comply with such laws and regulations. in some areas of our businesses, we act on the basis of our own or the industry's interpretations of applicable laws or regulations, which may conflict from state to state or country to country. in the event those interpretations eventually prove different from the interpretations of regulatory authorities, we may be penalized or precluded from carrying on our previous activities. moreover, the laws and regulations to which we are subject may conflict among the various jurisdictions and countries in which we operate, which increases the likelihood of our businesses being non-compliant in one or more jurisdictions. cybersecurity and data protection risks we could incur significant liability or our reputation could be damaged if our information systems are breached or we otherwise fail to protect client or company data or information systems. we rely on the efficient, uninterrupted and secure operation of complex information technology systems and networks to operate our business and securely process, transmit and store electronic information. in the normal course of business, we also share electronic information with our vendors and other third parties. this electronic information comprises sensitive and confidential data, including information related to financial records, health care, mergers and acquisitions and clients' personal data. our information technology systems, and those of our numerous third-party providers, are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of external threats, including cyber-attacks, computer viruses and other malware, ransomware and other types of security breaches. our systems are also subject to compromise from internal threats such as improper action by employees, vendors and other third parties with otherwise legitimate access to our systems. the latency of such attacks is often measured in months, and we may not be able to detect an attack in a timely manner. we could experience significant financial and reputational harm if our information systems are breached, or sensitive client or company data are compromised. we are at risk of attack by a growing list of adversaries, including by state-sponsored organizations, organized crime, hackers or "hactivists" (activist hackers), through use of increasingly sophisticated methods of attack, including long-term, persistent attacks referred to as advanced persistent threats. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not identified until they are launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these 13 techniques or implement adequate preventative measures, resulting in potential data loss or other damage to information technology systems. as the breadth and complexity of our infrastructure continues to grow, including as a result of the use of mobile technologies, cloud services, social media and the increased reliance on devices connected to the internet (known as the "internet of things"), the potential risk of security breaches and cyber-attacks also increases. despite ongoing efforts to improve our ability to protect data from theft, we may not be able to protect all of our data across our diverse systems. should an attacker gain access to our network using compromised credentials of an authorized user, we are at risk that the attacker might successfully leverage that access to compromise additional systems and data. certain measures that could increase the security of our infrastructure, such as data encryption or deployment of multi-factor authentication, take significant time and resources to deploy broadly, and such measures may not be effective against an attack. the inability to implement, maintain and upgrade adequate safeguards could have a material adverse effect on our business. due to the large number and age of the systems and platforms that we operate, the increased frequency at which vendors issue security patches to their products, the need to test patches and, in some cases coordinate with clients and vendors, before they can be deployed, we are at risk that we cannot deploy patches in a timely manner. we are also dependent on third party vendors like cloud service providers to keep their systems patched in order to protect our data. if we, our clients and our vendors are unable to keep systems patched in a timely manner, they may be breached, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we have numerous vendors and other third parties who receive personal information from us in connection with the services we offer our clients. a small percentage of them have direct access to our systems. we are at risk of a cyber-attack involving a vendor or other third party, which could result in a breakdown of such third party's data protection processes or the cyber-attackers gaining access to our infrastructure through the third party. to the extent that a vendor or third party suffers a cyber-attack that compromises their operations, we could incur significant costs and possible service interruption, which could have an adverse effect on our business. we have a history of making acquisitions and investments, including 115 in the period from 2011-2016. the process of integrating the information systems of the businesses we acquire is complex and exposes us to additional risk. for instance, we may not adequately identify weaknesses in the target's information systems, either before or after the acquisition, which could affect the value we are able to derive from the acquisition, expose us to unexpected liabilities or make our own systems more vulnerable to a cyber-attack. we may also be unable to integrate the systems of the businesses we acquire into our environment in a timely manner, which could further increase these risks until such integration takes place. our policies, procedures and technical safeguards may be insufficient to prevent or detect improper access to confidential, personal or proprietary information by employees, vendors or other third parties with otherwise legitimate access to our systems. improper access to or disclosure of sensitive client or company information could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under our contracts, as well as under existing or future laws, rules and regulations. we have from time to time experienced data incidents and cybersecurity breaches, such as malware incursions (including computer viruses and ransomware), users exceeding their data access authorization, employee misconduct and incidents resulting from human error, such as loss of portable and other data storage devices. like many companies, we are subject to regular phishing email campaigns directed at our employees that can result in malware infections and data losses. although these incidents have resulted in data loss and other damages, to date, they have not had a material adverse effect on our business or operations. in the future, these types of incidents could result in confidential, personal or proprietary information being lost or stolen, including client, employee or company data, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we also may be unable to detect an incident, assess its severity or impact, or appropriately respond in a timely manner. in addition, our liability insurance, which includes cyber insurance, may not be sufficient in type or amount to cover us against claims related to security breaches, cyber - attacks and other related breaches . 14 the costs to comply with, or our failure to comply with, u.s. and foreign laws related to privacy, data security and data protection, such as the e.u. general data protection regulation, could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and our reputation. in providing services and solutions to clients, we store and transfer sensitive client or company data, including personal data, in and across multiple jurisdictions. we leverage systems and applications that are spread all over the world requiring us to regularly move data across national borders. as a result, we are or may become subject to a variety of laws and regulations in the united states and abroad regarding privacy, data protection and data security. these laws and regulations are continuously evolving and developing. the scope and interpretation of the laws that are or may be applicable to us are often uncertain and may be conflicting, particularly with respect to foreign laws. for example, in april 2016 the european commission adopted the general data protection regulation ("gdpr"), which greatly increases the jurisdictional reach of its laws and adds a broad array of requirements for handling personal data, such as the public disclosure of significant data breaches, privacy impact assessments, data portability and the appointment of data protection officers in some cases. other countries have enacted or are enacting data localization laws that require data to stay within their borders. at a state level, the new york state department of financial services has issued cybersecurity regulations which impose an array of detailed security measures on covered entities. all of these evolving compliance and operational requirements impose significant costs that are likely to increase over time and may restrict the way services involving data are offered, all of which may adversely affect our results of operations . unauthorized disclosure or transfer of sensitive or confidential client or company data, whether through systems failure, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, by the company, our vendors or other parties with whom we do business could subject us to significant litigation, monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions, fines and criminal prosecution in one or more jurisdictions. for example, under the gdpr, violations could result in a fine of up to 4% of a corporation's global annual revenue. such events could also result in negative publicity and damage to our reputation and cause us to lose clients, which could therefore have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. competitive risks we face significant competitive pressures in each of our businesses. as a global professional services firm, the company faces intense, sustained competition in each of its operating segments. our ability to compete successfully depends on a variety of factors, including the quality and expertise of our colleagues, our geographic reach, the sophistication and quality of our services, our pricing relative to competitors, our customers' ability to self-insure or use internal resources instead of consultants, known as "disintermediation," and our ability to respond to changes in client demand and industry conditions. some of our competitors may have greater financial resources, or may be better positioned to respond to technological and other changes in the industries we serve, and they may be able to compete more effectively. if we are unable to respond successfully to the competition we face, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely impacted. as a u.s.-domiciled company, our consolidated effective tax rate is higher than a number of our key competitors that are domiciled outside the united states where corporate tax rates are lower than the u.s. federal statutory tax rate. certain of our businesses, such as marsh &amp; mclennan agency, also operate primarily in the united states where their earnings are subject to higher tax rates. the higher consolidated tax rate at which our earnings are taxed could have an adverse impact on our ability to compete with a number of our competitors. additionally, the tax laws, rulings, policies or related legal and regulatory interpretations of the u.s. and other jurisdictions could change in the future, and such changes could cause a material change in our tax rate. in our risk and insurance services segment, in addition to the challenges posed by capital market alternatives to traditional insurance and reinsurance, we compete intensely against a wide range of other insurance and reinsurance brokerage and risk advisory firms that operate on a global, regional, national or local scale for both client business and employee talent. we also compete with insurance and reinsurance companies that market and service their insurance products without the assistance of brokers or other market intermediaries, and with various other companies that provide risk-related services or alternatives to traditional brokerage services including through technological solutions. this competition is intensified by an industry trend toward a "syndicated" or "distributed" approach to the 15 purchase of insurance and reinsurance brokerage services, where a client engages multiple brokers to service different portions of the client's account. in addition, third party capital providers have entered the insurance and reinsurance risk transfer market offering products and capital directly to our clients. their presence in the market increases the competitive pressures that we face. in our consulting segment, we compete for business with numerous consulting firms and similar organizations, many of whom also provided, or are affiliated with firms that provided, accounting, information systems, technology and financial services. such competitors may be able to offer more comprehensive products and services to potential clients, which may give them a competitive advantage. the loss of key professionals could hurt our ability to retain existing client revenues and generate revenues from new business. across all of our businesses, our colleagues are critical to developing and retaining the client relationships as well as performing the services on which our revenues depend. it is therefore important for us to attract, incentivize and retain significant revenue-producing employees and the key managerial and other professionals who support them. in addition, we could be adversely affected if we fail to adequately plan for the succession of members of our senior management team. we face numerous challenges in this regard, including the intense competition for talent and the general mobility of professionals. losing employees who manage or support substantial client relationships or possess substantial experience or expertise could adversely affect our ability to secure and complete client engagements, which could adversely affect our results of operations. and, subject to applicable enforceable restrictive covenants, if a key employee were to join an existing competitor or form a competing company, some of our clients could choose to use the services of that competitor instead of our services. our business performance and growth plans could be negatively affected if we are not able to effectively apply technology in driving value for our clients. to remain competitive in many of our business areas, we must anticipate and respond effectively to the threat of digital disruption and other technological change. the threat comes from traditional players through disintermediation as well as from new entrants. we must also identify relevant technologies and methodologies and integrate them into our product and service offerings. we may not be able to do this effectively. additionally, the effort to gain technological expertise and develop new technologies in our business requires us to incur significant expenses, and we may not make sufficient investments necessary to realize these goals. we have a number of strategic initiatives involving investments in technology systems and infrastructure to support our growth strategy. in addition to new platforms and systems, we are deploying new processes and many of our colleagues across the business are changing the way they perform certain roles to capture efficiencies. these initiatives may not yield sufficient return to cover the investments they require. in some cases, we depend on key vendors and partners to provide technology and other support for our strategic initiatives. if these vendors or partners fail to perform their obligations or otherwise cease to work with us, our ability to execute on our strategic initiatives could be adversely affected. if we do not keep up with technological changes or execute well on our strategic initiatives, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted. damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business. our reputation is one of our key assets. we advise our clients on and provide services related to a wide range of subjects and our ability to attract and retain clients is highly dependent upon the external perceptions of our level of service, trustworthiness, business practices, financial condition and other subjective qualities. negative perceptions or publicity regarding these matters or others could erode trust and confidence and damage our reputation among existing and potential clients, which could make it difficult for us to attract new clients and maintain existing ones as mentioned above. negative public opinion could also result from actual or alleged conduct by us or those currently or formerly associated with us in any number of activities or circumstances, including operations, regulatory compliance, and the use and protection of data and systems, satisfaction of client expectations, and from actions taken by regulators or others in response to such conduct. this damage to our reputation could further affect the confidence of our clients, rating agencies, regulators, stockholders and the other parties in a wide range 16 of transactions that are important to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. consolidation in the industries we serve could adversely affect our business. companies in the industries that we serve may seek to achieve economies of scale and other synergies by combining with or acquiring other companies. if two or more of our current clients merge, or consolidate or combine their operations, it may decrease the amount of work that we perform for these clients. if one of our current clients merges or consolidates with a company that relies on another provider for its services, we may lose work from that client or lose the opportunity to gain additional work. any of these or similar possible results of industry consolidation could adversely affect our business. the insurance industry saw increased market consolidation in 2016, and this trend could continue or accelerate in 2017. as the insurance and reinsurance companies continue to consolidate, guy carpenter's smaller client base may be more susceptible to this risk given the limited number of insurance company clients and reinsurers in the marketplace. we rely on a large number of vendors and other third parties to perform key functions of our business operations and to provide services to our clients. these vendors and third parties may act in ways that could harm our business. we rely on a large number of vendors and other third parties, and in some cases subcontractors, to provide services, data and information such as technology, information security, funds transfers, data processing, and administration and support functions that are critical to the operations of our business. these third parties include correspondents, agents and other brokers and intermediaries, insurance markets, data providers, plan trustees, payroll service providers, software and system vendors, health plan providers, investment managers, risk modeling providers, outsourced providers of client-related services and providers of human resource functions, such as recruiters. as we do not fully control the actions of these third parties, we are subject to the risk that their decisions or operations may adversely impact us and replacing these service providers could create significant delay and expense. a failure by the third parties to comply with service level agreement, or regulatory or legal requirements in a high quality and timely manner, particularly during periods of our peak demand for their services, could result in economic and reputational harm to us. in addition, these third parties face their own technology, operating, business and economic risks, and any significant failures by them, including the improper use or disclosure of our confidential client, employee, or company information or failure to comply with applicable law, could cause harm to our reputation or otherwise expose us to liability. an interruption in or the cessation of service by any service provider as a result of systems failures, capacity constraints, financial difficulties or for any other reason could disrupt our operations, impact our ability to offer certain products and services, and result in contractual or regulatory penalties, liability claims from clients or employees, damage to our reputation and harm to our business. financial risks our results of operations could be adversely affected by macroeconomic conditions, political events and market conditions. macroeconomic conditions and political events around the world affect our clients' businesses and the markets they serve. these conditions may reduce demand for our services or depress pricing for those services, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. changes in macroeconomic and political conditions could also shift demand to services for which we do not have a competitive advantage, and this could negatively affect the amount of business that we are able to obtain. for example, recently there has been a move toward protectionist laws and business practices in some countries, which could favor local competition and adversely affect our business. in particular, on june 23, 2016, the united kingdom held a referendum and voted in favor of leaving the european union, or e.u., referred to as "brexit". brexit has created political and economic uncertainty, particularly in the united kingdom and the e.u., and this uncertainty may last for years. our business in the united kingdom, the e.u. and worldwide could be affected during this period of uncertainty, and perhaps longer, by the impact of the united kingdom's referendum. in addition, as a result of the recent change of administration in the united states, changes in u.s. social, political, regulatory and economic conditions or in laws and policies governing foreign trade, manufacturing, development and investment in the territories and countries 17 where we currently do business, and any negative sentiments toward the united states as a result of such changes, could adversely affect our business. further, concerns persist regarding the economic health and political stability of certain eurozone countries. if the demand for our products and services declines as a result of these or any other macroeconomic conditions, political events or market conditions, we may be required to respond in a way which could adversely affect our ability to execute our business strategy. our investments, including our minority investments in other companies as well as our cash investments and those held in a fiduciary capacity, are subject to general credit, liquidity, counterparty, foreign exchange, market and interest rate risks. these risks may be exacerbated by global macroeconomic conditions, market volatility and regulatory, financial and other difficulties affecting the companies in which we have invested or that may be faced by financial institution counterparties. during times of stress in the banking industry, counterparty risk can quickly escalate, potentially resulting in substantial trading and investment losses for corporate and other investors. in addition, we may incur investment losses as a result of unusual and unpredictable market developments, and we may continue to experience reduced investment earnings if the yields on investments deemed to be low risk remain at or near their current low levels. if the banking system or the fixed income, interest rate, credit or equity markets deteriorate, the value and liquidity of our investments could be adversely affected. finally, the value of the company's assets held in other jurisdictions, including cash holdings, may decline due to foreign exchange fluctuations. if we are unable to collect our receivables, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. our business depends on our ability to successfully obtain payment from our clients of the amounts they owe us for the work we perform. accounts receivable typically total about one-quarter of our total annual revenues, and as of december 31, 2016, our accounts receivable were approximately $3.4 billion. macroeconomic conditions could result in financial difficulties for our clients, which could cause clients to delay payments to us, request modifications to their payment arrangements that could increase our receivables balance or default on their payment obligations to us. timely collection of client balances also depends on our ability to complete our contractual commitments and bill and collect our contracted revenues. if we are unable to meet our contractual requirements, we might experience delays in collection of, or be unable to collect, our client balances, and if this occurs, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. in addition, if we experience an increase in the time it takes to bill and collect for our services, our cash flows could be adversely affected. we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all. the maintenance and growth of our business, the payment of dividends and our ability to make share repurchases depend on our access to capital, which depends in large part on cash flow generated by our business and the availability of equity and debt financing. certain of our businesses such as gc securities and mmc securities (europe) limited also rely on financings by us to fund debt and equity capital raising offerings by their clients. there can be no assurance that our operations will generate sufficient positive cash flow to finance all of our capital needs or that we will be able to obtain equity or debt financing on favorable terms or at all. in addition, our ability to obtain financing will depend in part upon prevailing conditions in credit and capital markets, which are beyond our control. our defined benefit pension plan obligations could cause the company's financial position, earnings and cash flows to fluctuate. our defined benefit pension obligations and the assets set aside to fund those obligations are sensitive to certain changes in the financial markets. any such changes may result in increased pension expense or additional cash payments to fund these plans. the company has significant defined benefit pension obligations to its current and former employees, totaling approximately $15.6 billion, and related plan assets of approximately $14.4 billion, at december 31, 2016 on a u.s. gaap basis. the company's policy for funding its defined benefit pension plans is to contribute amounts at least sufficient to meet the funding requirements set forth by law. in the united states, contributions to these plans are based on erisa guidelines. outside the united states, contributions are generally based on statutory requirements and local funding practices, which may differ 18 from measurements under u.s. gaap. in the u.k., for example, the assumptions used to determine pension contributions are the result of legally-prescribed negotiations between the company and the plans' trustee. currently, this results in a lower funded status than under u.s. gaap and may result in contributions irrespective of the u.s. gaap funded status. the financial calculations relating to our defined benefit pension plans are complex. pension plan assets could decrease as the result of poor future asset performance. also, pension plan liabilities, periodic pension expense and future funding amounts could increase as a result of a decline in the interest rates we use to discount our pension liabilities, longer lifespans than those reflected in our mortality assumptions, actual investment return that is less than the expected return on assets, adverse changes in laws or regulations and other variables. while we have taken steps to mitigate the impact of pension volatility on our earnings and cash funding requirements, these strategies may not be successful. accordingly, given the magnitude of our worldwide pension plans, variations in or reassessment of the preceding factors or potential miscalculations relating to our defined benefit pension plans could cause significant fluctuation from year to year in our earnings and cash flow, as well as our pension plan assets, liabilities and equity, and may result in increased levels of contributions to our pension plans. our significant non-u.s. operations expose us to exchange rate fluctuations and various risks that could impact our business. a significant portion of our business is located outside of the united states. we are subject to exchange rate movement because some of our subsidiaries receive revenue other than in their functional currencies and because we must translate the financial results of our foreign subsidiaries into u.s. dollars. these movements may change over time, and they could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. our u.s. operations earn revenue and incur expenses primarily in u.s. dollars. in certain jurisdictions, however, our risk and insurance services operations generate revenue in a number of different currencies, but expenses are almost entirely incurred in local currency. due to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, we are subject to economic exposure as well as currency translation exposure on the net operating results of our operations. because the non-u.s. based revenue that is exposed to foreign exchange fluctuations is approximately 50% of total revenue, exchange rate movement can have a significant impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. for additional discussion, see "market risk and credit risk-foreign currency risk" in part ii, item 7a ("quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk") of this report. we may not be able to receive dividends or other distributions in needed amounts from our subsidiaries. the company is organized as a legal entity separate and distinct from our operating subsidiaries. because we do not have significant operations of our own, we are dependent upon dividends and other payments from our operating subsidiaries to meet our obligations for paying principal and interest on outstanding debt obligations, paying dividends to stockholders, repurchasing our common stock under our share repurchase program and paying corporate expenses. in the event our operating subsidiaries are unable to pay sufficient dividends and make other payments to the company, we may not be able to service our debt, pay dividends on or repurchase our common stock or meet our other obligations. further, the company derives a significant portion of its revenue and operating profit from operating subsidiaries located outside the united states. funds from the current year's earnings of the company's non-u.s. operating subsidiaries are regularly repatriated to the united states. a number of factors could arise that could limit our ability to repatriate funds or could make repatriation cost-prohibitive, including, but not limited to, the imposition of currency controls and other government restrictions on repatriation in the jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, the imposition of withholding and other taxes on such payments and our ability to repatriate earnings in a tax-efficient manner. in the event we are unable to generate or repatriate cash from our operating subsidiaries for any of the reasons discussed above, our overall liquidity could deteriorate and our ability to finance our obligations, including to pay dividends on or repurchase our common stock, could be adversely affected . 19 our quarterly revenues and profitability may fluctuate significantly. quarterly variations in revenues and operating results may occur due to several factors. these include: the number of client engagements during a quarter; the possibility that clients may decide to delay or terminate a current or anticipated project as a result of factors unrelated to our work product or progress; fluctuations in hiring and utilization rates and clients' ability to terminate engagements without penalty; seasonality due to the impact of regulatory deadlines, policy renewals and other timing factors to which our clients are subject; the success of our acquisitions or investments; macroeconomic factors such as changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and global securities markets, particularly in the case of mercer, where fees in its investments business and certain other business lines are derived from the value of assets under management or administration; and general economic conditions, since results of operations are directly affected by the levels of business activity of our clients, which in turn are affected by the level of economic activity in the industries and markets that they serve. a significant portion of our total operating expenses is relatively fixed in the short term. therefore, a variation in the number of client assignments or in the timing of the initiation or the completion of client assignments can cause significant variations in quarterly operating results for these businesses. credit rating downgrades would increase our financing costs and could subject us to operational risk. currently, the company's senior debt is rated a- by s&amp;p and baa1 by moody's. the ratings from both s&amp;p and moody's currently carry a stable outlook. if we need to raise capital in the future (for example, in order to fund maturing debt obligations or finance acquisitions or other initiatives), credit rating downgrades would increase our financing costs, and could limit our access to financing sources. further, a downgrade to a rating below investment-grade could result in greater operational risks through increased operating costs and increased competitive pressures. global operations we are exposed to multiple risks associated with the global nature of our operations. we do business worldwide. in 2016, 50% of the company's total revenue was generated from operations outside the united states, and over one-half of our employees were located outside the united states. we expect to expand our non-u.s. operations further. the geographic breadth of our activities subjects us to significant legal, economic, operational, market, compliance and reputational risks. these include, among others, risks relating to: economic and political conditions in the countries in which we operate; unexpected increases in taxes or changes in u.s. or foreign tax laws, rulings, policies or related legal and regulatory interpretations, including recent international initiatives to require multinational enterprises, like ours, to report profitability on a country-by-country basis, which could increase scrutiny by foreign tax authorities; potential transfer pricing-related tax exposures that may result from the flow of funds among our subsidiaries and affiliates in the various jurisdictions in which we operate; withholding or other taxes that foreign governments may impose on the payment of dividends or other remittances to us from our non-u.s. subsidiaries; potential conflicts of interest that may arise as we expand the scope of our businesses and our client base; international hostilities, terrorist activities, natural disasters and infrastructure disruptions; local investment or other financial restrictions that foreign governments may impose; potential costs and difficulties in complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations (including tax systems) administered by foreign government agencies, some of which may conflict with u.s. or other sources of law; 20 potential costs and difficulties in complying, or monitoring compliance, with foreign and u.s. laws and regulations that are applicable to our operations abroad, including trade sanctions laws relating to countries such as cuba, iran, russia, sudan and syria and anti-corruption laws such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act 2010; limitations or restrictions that foreign or u.s. governments and regulators may impose on the products or services we sell, the methods by which we sell our products and services and the manner in which we are compensated; limitations that foreign governments may impose on the conversion of currency or the payment of dividends or other remittances to us from our non-u.s. subsidiaries; the length of payment cycles and potential difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; engaging and relying on third parties to perform services on behalf of the company; and potential difficulties in monitoring employees in geographically dispersed locations. our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem could cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. if we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity event, such as an earthquake, hurricane, flood, terrorist attack, pandemic, security breach, cyber-attack, power loss or telecommunications failure, our ability to operate will depend, in part, on the continued availability of our personnel, our office facilities and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. in such an event, we could experience operational challenges that could have a material adverse effect on our business. the risk of business disruption is more pronounced in certain geographic areas, including major metropolitan centers, like new york or london, where we have concentrations of customers and employees or significant operations, and in certain countries and regions in which we operate that are subject to potential threat of terrorist attacks or military conflicts. our operations depend in particular upon our ability to protect our technology infrastructure against damage. if a business continuity event occurs, we could lose client or company data or experience interruptions to our operations or delivery of services to our clients, which could have a material adverse effect. a cyber-attack or other business continuity event affecting us or a key vendor or other third party could result in a significant and extended disruption in the functioning of our information technology systems or operations, requiring us to incur significant expense to address and remediate or otherwise resolve such issues. an extended outage could result in the loss of clients and a decline in our revenues. we regularly assess and take steps to improve our existing business continuity plans and key management succession. however, a disaster or other continuity event on a significant scale or affecting certain of our key operating areas within or across regions, or our inability to successfully recover from such an event, could materially interrupt our business operations and result in material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, damaged client relationships and legal liability. our business disruption insurance may also not be sufficient in type or amount to cover the cost of a successful recovery in the event of such a disruption. acquisitions and dispositions we face risks when we acquire and dispose of businesses. we have a history of making acquisitions and investments, including a total of 115 in the period 2011-2016. we expect that acquisitions will continue to be a key part of our business strategy. our success in this regard will depend on our ability to identify and compete for appropriate acquisition candidates and to complete the transactions we decide to pursue with favorable results. as we typically acquire other professional services firms, the success of our transactions is also highly dependent on the retention of the key employees of our acquisition targets. while we intend that our acquisitions will improve our competitiveness and profitability, we cannot be certain that our past or future acquisitions will be accretive to earnings or otherwise meet our operational or strategic expectations. acquisitions involve special risks, including accounting, regulatory, compliance, information technology or human resources issues that could arise in connection with, or as a result of, the acquisition of the acquired company; the assumption of unanticipated liabilities and contingencies; 21 difficulties in integrating acquired businesses; possible management distraction; and the inability of acquired businesses to achieve the levels of revenue, profit, productivity or synergies we anticipate or otherwise perform as we expect on the timeline contemplated. in addition, if in the future, the performance of our reporting units or an acquired business varies from our projections or assumptions, or estimates about future profitability of our reporting units or an acquired business change, the estimated fair value of our reporting units or an acquired business could change materially and could result in an impairment of goodwill and other acquisition-related intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet or in adjustments in contingent payment amounts. as of december 31, 2016, the company's consolidated balance sheet reflected $9.5 billion of goodwill and intangible assets, representing approximately 52% of the company's total consolidated assets and allocated by reporting segment as follows: risk and insurance services, $6.8 billion and consulting, $2.7 billion. given the significant size of the company's goodwill and intangible assets, an impairment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any given period. when we dispose of businesses, we are also subject to the risk, contractually agreed or otherwise, that we will continue to be subject to the liabilities of that business after its disposition. risks relating to our risk and insurance services segment our risk and insurance services segment, conducted through marsh and guy carpenter, represented 54% of the company's total revenue in 2016. our business in this segment is subject to particular risks. results in our risk and insurance services segment may be adversely affected by a general decline in economic activity. demand for many types of insurance and reinsurance generally rises or falls as economic growth expands or slows. this dynamic affects the level of commissions and fees generated by marsh and guy carpenter. to the extent our clients become adversely affected by declining business conditions, they may choose to limit their purchases of insurance and reinsurance coverage, as applicable, which would inhibit our ability to generate commission revenue and other revenue based on premiums placed by us. also, the insurance they seek to obtain through us may be impacted by changes in their assets, property values, sales or number of employees, which may reduce our commission revenue, and they may decide not to purchase our risk advisory or other services, which would inhibit our ability to generate fee revenue. moreover, insolvencies and combinations associated with an economic downturn, especially insolvencies and combinations in the insurance industry, could adversely affect our brokerage business through the loss of clients or by hampering our ability to place insurance and reinsurance business, as well as our revenues from insurers. guy carpenter is especially susceptible to this risk given the limited number of insurance company clients and reinsurers in the market place. volatility or declines in premiums and other market trends may significantly impede our ability to improve revenues and profitability. a significant portion of our risk and insurance services revenue consists of commissions paid to us out of the premiums that insurers and reinsurers charge our clients for coverage. we do not determine the insurance premiums on which our commissions are generally based. our revenues and profitability are subject to change to the extent that premium rates fluctuate or trend in a particular direction. the potential for changes in premium rates is significant, due to the normal cycles of pricing in the commercial insurance and reinsurance markets. as traditional insurance companies continue to rely on non-affiliated brokers or agents to generate premium, those insurance companies may seek to reduce their expenses by lowering their commission rates. the reduction of these commission rates, along with general volatility or declines in premiums, may significantly affect our profitability. because we do not determine the timing or extent of premium pricing changes, it is difficult to accurately forecast our commission revenues, including whether they will significantly decline. as a result, we may have to adjust our budgets for future acquisitions, capital expenditures, dividend payments, loan repayments and other expenditures to account for unexpected changes in revenues, and any decreases in premium rates may adversely affect the results of our operations. in addition to movements in premium rates, our ability to generate premium-based commission revenue may be challenged by the growing availability of alternative methods for clients to meet their risk- 22 protection needs. this trend includes a greater willingness on the part of corporations to self-insure, the use of captive insurers, and the advent of capital markets-based solutions to traditional insurance and reinsurance needs. further, the profitability of our risk and insurances services segment depends in part on our ability to be compensated for the analytical services and other advice that we provide. if we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate billing rates for all of our services, our margins and profitability could decline. allegations of conflicts of interest, adverse legal developments and future regulations concerning how intermediaries are compensated by insurers or clients could have a material adverse effect on marsh's business, results of operations and financial condition. the ways in which insurance intermediaries are compensated receive scrutiny from regulators in part because of the potential for conflicts of interest. the vast majority of the compensation that marsh receives is in the form of retail fees and commissions that are paid by the client or paid from premium that is paid by the client. the amount of other compensation that we receive from insurance companies, separate from retail fees and commissions, has increased significantly in the last several years, both organically and through acquisition. this other compensation includes payment for (i) consulting and analytics services provided to insurers; (ii) administrative and other services provided to insurers (including services relating to the administration and management of quota shares, panels and other facilities); and (iii) contingent commissions (paid by insurers based on volume and profitability of marsh's placements). future changes in the regulatory environment may impact our ability to collect these revenue streams. in addition, these revenues present potential regulatory, litigation and reputational risks that may arise from alleged conflicts of interest or allegations under antitrust, competition and unfair trade practice laws. adverse regulatory, legal or other developments could have a material adverse effect on our business and expose the company to negative publicity and reputational harm . risks relating to our consulting segment our consulting segment, conducted through mercer and oliver wyman group, represented 46% of our total revenue in 2016. our businesses in this segment are subject to particular risks. revenues for the services provided by our consulting segment may decline for various reasons, including as a result of changes in economic conditions, the value of equity, debt and other asset markets, our clients' or an industry's financial condition or government regulation. global economic conditions over the past several years have negatively affected businesses and financial institutions. many of our clients, including financial institutions, corporations, government entities and pension plans, have been reducing expenses, including amounts spent on consulting services, and using internal resources instead of consultants. the evolving needs and financial circumstances of our clients may reduce demand for our consulting services and our revenues and profitability. if the economy or markets in which we operate experience continued weakness at current levels or deteriorate further, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, some segments of mercer's investments business generate fees based upon the value of the clients' assets under management or advisement. changes in the value of equity, debt, currency, real estate, commodities or other asset classes could cause the value of assets under management or advisement, and the fees received by mercer, to decline. such changes could also cause clients to withdraw funds from mercer's investment business in favor of other investment service providers. in either case, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. further, revenue received by mercer as investment manager to the majority of the mercer-managed investment funds is reported in accordance with u.s. gaap on a gross basis rather than a net basis. therefore the reported revenue for these offerings does not fully reflect the inclusion of sub-advisor fees, and thus the amount of revenue ultimately attributable to mercer would be lower. demand for many of mercer's benefits services is affected by government regulation and tax laws, rulings, policies and interpretations, which drive our clients' needs for benefits-related services. significant changes in government regulations affecting the value, use or delivery of benefits and human resources programs, including changes in regulations relating to health and welfare plans, defined contribution plans or defined benefit plans, may adversely affect the demand for or profitability of mercer's services. 23 factors affecting defined benefit pension plans and the services we provide relating to those plans could adversely affect mercer. mercer currently provides corporate, multi-employer and public clients with actuarial, consulting and administration services relating to defined benefit pension plans. the nature of our work is complex. our actuarial services involve numerous assumptions and estimates regarding future events, including interest rates used to discount future liabilities, estimated rates of return for a plan's assets, healthcare cost trends, salary projections and participants' life expectancies. our consulting services involve the drafting and interpretation of trust deeds and other complex documentation governing pension plans. our administration services include calculating benefits within complicated pension plan structures. clients dissatisfied with our services have brought, and may bring, significant claims against us, particularly in the united states and the united kingdom. in addition, a number of mercer's clients have frozen or curtailed their defined benefit plans and have moved to defined contribution plans resulting in reduced revenue for mercer's retirement business. these developments could adversely affect mercer's business and operating results. mercer's investment business is subject to a number of risks, including risks related to third-party investment managers, operational risk, conflicts of interest, asset performance and regulatory compliance, that, if realized, could result in significant damage to our business. mercer's investment business provides clients with investment consulting and investment management (referred to as "delegated solutions") services. in the investment consulting business, clients make and implement their own investment decisions based upon advice provided by mercer. in its delegated solutions business, mercer implements the client's investment policy by engaging and overseeing independent asset managers who determine which securities to buy and sell. to effect implementation of a client's investment policy, mercer may utilize its "manager of managers" investment funds. mercer's investment business is subject to a number of risks, including risks related to third-parties, our operations, conflicts of interest, asset performance and regulatory compliance and scrutiny, which could arise in connection with these offerings. for example, mercer's due diligence on an asset manager may fail to uncover material deficiencies or fraud that could result in investment losses to a client. there is a risk that mercer will fail to properly implement a client's investment policy, which could cause an incorrect or untimely allocation of client assets among asset managers or strategies. mercer may also be perceived as recommending certain asset managers to clients, or offering delegated solutions to an investment consulting client, solely to enhance its own compensation. asset classes may perform poorly, or investment managers may underperform their benchmarks, due to poor market performance, negligence or other reasons, resulting in poor returns or loss of client capital. these risks, if realized, could result in significant liability and to damage our business. in addition, the fca is conducting a market study of the u.k. asset management industry, which includes asset managers and investment consultants. in november 2016, the fca published an interim report which contains preliminary findings relating to the investment consulting industry and a provisional reference to the u.k. competition &amp; markets authority (cma) for a market investigation reference (mir). if the mir goes forward, the cma may impose remedies on the industry that may adversely affect mercer's u.k. investment consulting and delegated solutions businesses. the profitability of our consulting segment may decline if we are unable to achieve or maintain adequate utilization and pricing rates for our consultants. the profitability of our consulting businesses depends in part on ensuring that our consultants maintain adequate utilization rates (i.e., the percentage of our consultants' working hours devoted to billable activities). our utilization rates are affected by a number of factors, including: our ability to transition consultants promptly from completed projects to new assignments, and to engage newly-hired consultants quickly in revenue-generating activities; our ability to continually secure new business engagements, particularly because a portion of our work is project-based rather than recurring in nature; our ability to forecast demand for our services and thereby maintain appropriate headcount in each of our geographies and workforces; our ability to manage attrition; unanticipated changes in the scope of client engagements; 24 the potential for conflicts of interest that might require us to decline client engagements that we otherwise would have accepted; our need to devote time and resources to sales, training, professional development and other non-billable activities; the potential disruptive impact of acquisitions and dispositions; and general economic conditions. if the utilization rate for our consulting professionals declines, our profit margin and profitability could decline. in addition, the profitability of our consulting businesses depends in part on the prices we are able to charge for our services. the prices we charge are affected by a number of factors, including: clients' perception of our ability to add value through our services; market demand for the services we provide; our ability to develop new services and the introduction of new services by competitors; the pricing policies of our competitors; the extent to which our clients develop in-house or other capabilities to perform the services that they might otherwise purchase from us; and general economic conditions. if we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate billing rates for our services, our profit margin and profitability could decline. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk and credit risk certain of the company's revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and equity markets. interest rate risk and credit risk interest income generated from the company's cash investments as well as invested fiduciary funds will vary with the general level of interest rates. the company had the following investments subject to variable interest rates: (in millions of dollars) december 31, 2016 cash and cash equivalents invested in money market funds, certificates of deposit and time deposits $ 1,026 fiduciary cash and investments $ 4,241 based on the above balances, if short-term interest rates increased or decreased by 10%, or 6 basis points, over the full year, annual interest income, including interest earned on fiduciary funds, would increase or decrease by approximately $2 million. in addition to interest rate risk, our cash investments and fiduciary fund investments are subject to potential loss of value due to counter-party credit risk. to minimize this risk, the company and its subsidiaries invest pursuant to a board approved investment policy. the policy mandates the preservation of principal and liquidity and requires broad diversification with counter-party limits assigned based primarily on credit rating and type of investment. the company carefully monitors its cash and fiduciary fund investments and will further restrict the portfolio as appropriate to market conditions. the majority of cash and fiduciary fund investments are invested in short-term bank deposits and liquid money market funds. foreign currency risk the translated values of revenue and expense from the company's international operations are subject to fluctuations due to changes in currency exchange rates. the non-u.s. based revenue that is exposed to foreign exchange fluctuations is approximately 50% of total revenue. we periodically use forward contracts and options to limit foreign currency exchange rate exposure on net income and cash flows for specific, clearly defined transactions arising in the ordinary course of business. although the company has significant revenue generated in foreign locations which is subject to foreign exchange rate fluctuations, in most cases both the foreign currency revenue and expenses are in the functional currency of the foreign location. as such, under normal circumstances, the u.s. dollar translation of both the revenues and expenses, as well as the potentially offsetting movements of various currencies against the u.s. dollar, generally tends to mitigate the impact on net operating income of foreign currency risk. however, there have been periods where the impact was not mitigated due to external market factors, and recent events, including the vote on "brexit" in the united kingdom, may result in greater foreign exchange rate fluctuations in the future. if foreign exchange rates of major currencies (euro, sterling, australian dollar and canadian dollar) moved 10% in the same direction against the u.s. dollar compared with the foreign exchange rates in 2016 , the company estimates net operating income would increase or decrease by approximately $54 million. the company has exposure to approximately 80 foreign currencies overall. in continental europe, the largest amount of revenue from renewals for the risk &amp; insurance services segment occurs in the first quarter. equity price risk the company holds investments in both public and private companies as well as private equity funds. investments of approximately $105 million are classified as available for sale, which includes the company's investment in benefitfocus. approximately $21 million are accounted for using the cost method and $ 389 million are accounted for using the equity method, which includes the company's 46 investments in alexander forbes. the investments are subject to risk of changes in market value, which, if determined to be other than temporary, could result in realized impairment losses. the company periodically reviews the carrying value of such investments to determine if any valuation adjustments are appropriate under the applicable accounting pronouncements. as of december 31, 2016, the carrying value of the company's investment in alexander forbes was $ 247 million . as of december 31, 2016, the market value of the approximately 443 million shares of alexander forbes owned by the company, based on the december 31, 2016 closing share price of 7.95 south african rand per share, was approximately $ 251 million . other a number of lawsuits and regulatory proceedings are pending. see note 15 ("claims, lawsuits and other contingencies") to the consolidated financial statements included in this report. 47risk factors you should consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information presented in this report. these risks have the potential to materially adversely affect the company's business, results of operations or financial condition. risks relating to the company generally legal and regulatory risks we are subject to significant uninsured exposures arising from errors and omissions, breach of fiduciary duty and other claims. our operating companies provide numerous professional services, including the placement of insurance and the provision of consulting, investment advisory and actuarial services, to clients around the world. as a result, the company and its subsidiaries are subject to a significant number of errors and omissions, breach of fiduciary duty and similar claims, which we refer to collectively as "e&amp;o claims." in our risk and insurance services segment, such claims include allegations of damages arising from our failure to assess clients' risks, advise clients, place coverage or notify insurers of potential claims on behalf of clients in accordance with our obligations to them. in our consulting segment, where we increasingly act in a fiduciary capacity through our investments business, such claims include allegations of damages arising from the provision of consulting, investments, actuarial, pension administration and other services. these services frequently involve complex calculations and other analysis, including (i) making assumptions about, and preparing estimates concerning , contingent future events, (ii) drafting and interpreting complex documentation governing pension plans, (iii) calculating benefits within complex pension structures , (iv) providing investment advice, including guidance on asset allocation and investment strategy, and (v) managing client assets, including the selection of investment managers. these matters often relate to services provided by the company dating back many years. such claims may subject us to significant liability for monetary damages, including punitive and treble damages, negative publicity and reputational harm , and may divert personnel and management resources. we may be unable to effectively limit our potential liability in certain jurisdictions, including through insurance, or in connection with certain types of claims, particularly those concerning claims of a breach of fiduciary duty. in establishing liabilities for e&amp;o claims under generally accepted accounting principles ( gaap ), the company uses case level reviews by inside and outside counsel, actuarial analysis by oliver wyman group, a subsidiary of the company, and other methods to estimate potential losses. a liability is established when a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable. the liability is assessed quarterly and adjusted as developments warrant. in many cases, the company has not recorded a liability, other than for legal fees to defend the claim, because we are unable, at the present time, to make a determination that a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable. given the challenges inherent in establishing liabilities in accordance with gaap, as well as the unpredictability of e&amp;o claims and the litigation that can flow from them, it is possible that an adverse outcome in a particular matter could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, results of operations or financial condition in a given quarterly or annual period. we are subject to regulatory investigations, reviews and other inquiries that consume significant management time and, if determined unfavorably to us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. we are subject to regulatory investigations, reviews and other inquiries that consume significant management time and, if determined unfavorably to us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. for example, in 2017 we received notices related to four separate regulatory matters in europe. in october 2017, the company received a notice that the directorate-general for competition of the european commission had commenced a civil investigation of a number of insurance brokers, including marsh, regarding "the exchange of commercially sensitive information between competitors in relation to aviation and aerospace insurance and reinsurance broking products and services in the european economic area, as well as possible coordination between competitors." in june 2017, the fca issued a final report in connection with a market study of the u.k. asset management industry, which includes asset managers and investment consultants, including 12 mercer. following the report, in september 2017, the fca announced its decision to refer the investment consulting and fiduciary management markets to the u.k. competition &amp; markets authority (the "cma") for a market investigation. in july 2017, the directorate-general for competition of the european commission together with the irish competition and consumer protection commission conducted on-site inspections at the offices of marsh and other industry participants in dublin in connection with an investigation regarding the "possible participation in anticompetitive agreements and/or concerted practices contrary to [e.u. competition law] in the market for commercial motor insurance in the republic of ireland." in november 2017, the fca announced the terms of reference for a market study concerning the wholesale insurance broker sector in the united kingdom to assess "how effective competition is working in the wholesale insurance broker sector and how brokers influence competition in the underwriting sector." these regulatory matters are at early stages and we are unable to predict their likely timing, outcome or ultimate impact. additional information regarding these investigations and certain other legal and regulatory proceedings is set forth in note 14 to our consolidated financial statements included under part ii, item 8 of this report. we cannot guarantee that we are or will be in compliance with all current and potentially applicable u.s. federal and state or foreign laws and regulations, and actions by regulatory authorities or changes in legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business. our activities are subject to extensive regulation under the laws of the united states and its various states, the united kingdom, the european union and its member states and the other jurisdictions in which we operate. for example, we are subject to regulation by agencies such as the securities and exchange commission, finra and state insurance regulators in the united states, the fca and the competition and markets authority (cma) in the united kingdom, and the european commission in the european union, as further described above under part i, item 1 - business (regulation) of this report. we are also subject to trade sanctions laws relating to countries such as cuba, iran, russia, sudan and syria, and anti-corruption laws such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. anti-bribery act. we are subject to numerous other laws on matters as diverse as internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, securities regulation, data privacy and protection, taxation, anti-trust and competition, immigration, wage-and-hour standards and employment and labor relations. the u.s. and foreign laws and regulations that apply to our operations are complex and may change rapidly, and our efforts to comply and keep up with them require significant resources. in some cases, these laws and regulations may decrease the need for our services, increase our costs, negatively impact our revenues or impose operational limitations on our business, including on the products and services we may offer or on the amount or type of compensation we may collect. while we attempt to comply with applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that we, our employees, our consultants and our contractors and other agents are in full compliance with such laws and regulations or interpretations at all times, or that we will be able to comply with any future laws or regulations. if we fail to comply or are accused of failing to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including those referred to above, we may become subject to investigations, criminal penalties, civil remedies or other consequences, including fines, injunctions, loss of an operating license or approval, increased scrutiny or oversight by regulatory authorities, the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in a particular business or redress to clients or other parties, and may become exposed to negative publicity or reputational damage. moreover, our failure to comply with laws or regulations in one jurisdiction may result in increased regulatory scrutiny by other regulatory agencies in that jurisdiction or regulatory agencies in other jurisdictions. the cost of compliance and the consequences of failing to be in compliance could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. in most jurisdictions, government regulatory authorities have the power to interpret and amend or repeal applicable laws and regulations, and have discretion to grant, renew and revoke the various licenses and approvals we need to conduct our activities. such authorities may require the company to incur substantial costs in order to comply with such laws and regulations. in some areas of our businesses, we act on the basis of our own or the industry's interpretations of applicable laws or regulations, which may conflict from state to state or country to country. in the event those interpretations eventually prove 13 different from the interpretations of regulatory authorities, we may be penalized or precluded from carrying on our previous activities. moreover, the laws and regulations to which we are subject may conflict among the various jurisdictions and countries in which we operate, which increases the likelihood of our businesses being non-compliant in one or more jurisdictions. cybersecurity and data protection risks we could incur significant liability or our reputation could be damaged if our information systems are breached or we otherwise fail to protect client or company data or information systems. we rely on the efficient, uninterrupted and secure operation of complex information technology systems and networks to operate our business and securely process, transmit and store electronic information. in the normal course of business, we also share electronic information with our vendors and other third parties. this electronic information comprises sensitive and confidential data, including information related to financial records, health care, mergers and acquisitions and clients' personal data. our information technology systems and safety control systems, and those of our numerous third-party providers, are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of external threats, including cyber-attacks, computer viruses and other malware, ransomware and other types of data and systems related incidents. our systems are also subject to compromise from internal threats such as improper action by employees, vendors and other third parties with otherwise legitimate access to our systems. moreover, we face the ongoing challenge of managing access controls in a complex environment. the latency of a compromise is often measured in months but could be years, and we may not be able to detect a compromise in a timely manner. we could experience significant financial and reputational harm if our information systems are breached, sensitive client or company data are compromised, surreptitiously modified, rendered inaccessible for any period of time or maliciously made public, or if we fail to make adequate disclosures to the public or law enforcement agencies following any such event. we are at risk of attack by a growing list of adversaries, including state-sponsored organizations, organized crime, hackers or "hactivists" (activist hackers), through use of increasingly sophisticated methods of attack, including long-term, persistent attacks referred to as advanced persistent threats. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not identified until they are launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures, resulting in potential data loss or other damage to information technology systems. as the breadth and complexity of the technologies we use continue to grow, including as a result of the use of mobile devices, cloud services, social media and the increased reliance on devices connected to the internet (known as the "internet of things"), the potential risk of security breaches and cyber-attacks also increases. despite ongoing efforts to improve our ability to protect data from compromise, we may not be able to protect all of our data across our diverse systems. should an attacker gain access to our network using compromised credentials of an authorized user, we are at risk that the attacker might successfully leverage that access to compromise additional systems and data. certain measures that could increase the security of our systems, such as data encryption or deployment of multi-factor authentication, take significant time and resources to deploy broadly, and such measures may not be effective against an attack. the inability to implement, maintain and upgrade adequate safeguards could have a material adverse effect on our business. our information systems must be continually updated, patched, and upgraded to protect against known vulnerabilities. the volume of new software vulnerabilities has increased markedly, as has the criticality of patches and other remedial measures. in addition to remediating newly identified vulnerabilities previously identified vulnerabilities must also be continuously addressed. accordingly, we are at risk that cyber attackers exploit these known vulnerabilities before they have been addressed. due to the large number and age of the systems and platforms that we operate, the increased frequency at which vendors are issuing security patches to their products, the need to test patches and, in some cases coordinate with clients and vendors, before they can be deployed, we perpetually face the substantial risk that we cannot deploy patches in a timely manner. we are also dependent on third party vendors to keep their systems patched and secure in order to protect our data. any failure related to these activities could have a material adverse effect on our business. 14 we have numerous vendors and other third parties who receive personal information from us in connection with the services we offer our clients. in addition, we have migrated certain data, and may increasingly migrate data, to the cloud hosted by third-party providers. some of these vendors and third parties also have direct access to our systems. we are at risk of a cyber-attack involving a vendor or other third party, which could result in a breakdown of such third party's data protection processes or the cyber-attackers gaining access to our infrastructure through the third party. to the extent that a vendor or third party suffers a cyber-attack that compromises its operations, we could incur significant costs and possible service interruption, which could have an adverse effect on our business. we have a history of making acquisitions and investments, including 111 in the period from 2012-2017. the process of integrating the information systems of the businesses we acquire is complex and exposes us to additional risk. for instance, we may not adequately identify weaknesses in an acquired entity's information systems, either before or after the acquisition, which could affect the value we are able to derive from the acquisition, expose us to unexpected liabilities or make our own systems more vulnerable to a cyber-attack. we may also be unable to integrate the systems of the businesses we acquire into our environment in a timely manner, which could further increase these risks until such integration takes place. our policies, employee training (including phishing prevention training), procedures and technical safeguards may be insufficient to prevent or detect improper access to confidential, personal or proprietary information by employees, vendors or other third parties with otherwise legitimate access to our systems. improper access to or disclosure of sensitive client or company information could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under our contracts, as well as under existing or future laws, rules and regulations. we have from time to time experienced data incidents and cybersecurity breaches, such as malware incursions (including computer viruses and ransomware), users exceeding their data access authorization, employee misconduct and incidents resulting from human error, such as loss of portable and other data storage devices. like many companies, we are subject to regular phishing email campaigns directed at our employees that can result in malware infections and data losses. although these incidents have resulted in data loss and other damages, to date, they have not had a material adverse effect on our business or operations. in the future, these types of incidents could result in confidential, personal or proprietary information being lost or stolen, surreptitiously modified, rendered inaccessible for any period of time, or maliciously made public, including client, employee or company data, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. in the event of a cyber-attack, we might have to take our systems offline, which could interfere with services to our clients or damage our reputation. we also may be unable to detect an incident, assess its severity or impact, or appropriately respond in a timely manner. in addition, our liability insurance, which includes cyber insurance, may not be sufficient in type or amount to cover us against claims related to security breaches, cyber - attacks and other related data and system incidents . the costs to comply with, or our failure to comply with, u.s. and foreign laws related to privacy, data security and data protection, such as the e.u. general data protection regulation, could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and our reputation. in operating our business and providing services and solutions to clients, we store and transfer sensitive employee and client data, including personal data, in and across multiple jurisdictions. we leverage systems and applications that are spread all over the world requiring us to regularly move data across national borders. as a result, we are subject to a variety of laws and regulations in the united states, europe and around the world regarding privacy, data protection and data security. these laws and regulations are continuously evolving and developing. in particular, the number of high-profile security breaches at major companies continues to accelerate, which will likely lead to even greater regulatory scrutiny. the scope and interpretation of the laws that are or may be applicable to us are often uncertain and may be conflicting, particularly with respect to foreign laws. for example, the e.u. general data protection regulation ("gdpr"), which becomes effective in may 2018, greatly increases the european commission's jurisdictional reach of its laws and adds a broad array of requirements for handling personal data, such as the public disclosure of data breaches, privacy impact assessments, data 15 portability and the appointment of data protection officers in some cases. other countries around the world, including china, japan, australia and singapore, have recently adopted sweeping new data protection laws, or are enacting data localization laws that require data to stay within their borders. at a state level, the new york state department of financial services, by way of example, has issued cybersecurity regulations which impose an array of detailed security measures on covered entities. all of these evolving compliance and operational requirements impose significant costs that are likely to increase over time, may divert resources from other initiatives and projects and could restrict the way services involving data are offered, all of which may adversely affect our results of operations. furthermore, enforcement actions and investigations by regulatory authorities related to data security incidents and privacy violations continue to increase. unauthorized disclosure or transfer of sensitive or confidential client or company data, whether through systems failure, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, by the company, our vendors or other parties with whom we do business could subject us to significant litigation, monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions, fines and criminal prosecution in one or more jurisdictions. for example, under the gdpr, violations could result in a fine of up to 4% of a corporation's global annual revenue. competitive risks our business performance and growth plans could be negatively affected if we are not able to respond effectively to the threat of digital disruption and other technological change . to remain competitive in many of our business areas, we must anticipate and respond effectively to the threat of digital disruption and other technological change. the threat comes from traditional players, such as insurers, through disintermediation as well as from new entrants, such as technology companies, "insurtech" start-up companies and others. these players are focused on using technology and innovation, including artificial intelligence (ai) and blockchain, to simplify and improve the customer experience, increase efficiencies, alter business models and effect other potentially disruptive changes in the industries in which we operate. in order to maintain a competitive position, we must continue to invest in new technologies and new ways to deliver our products and services. we have a number of strategic initiatives involving investments in technology systems and infrastructure to support our growth strategy. these investments may not be profitable or may be less profitable than what we have experienced historically. in some cases, we depend on key vendors and partners to provide technology and other support for our strategic initiatives. if these vendors or partners fail to perform their obligations or otherwise cease to work with us, our ability to execute on our strategic initiatives could be adversely affected. if we do not keep up with technological changes or execute well on our strategic initiatives, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted. failure to maintain our corporate culture or damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business. we strive to create a culture in which our colleagues act with integrity and respect and feel comfortable speaking up to report instances of misconduct. we are a people business, and our ability to attract and retain employees and clients is highly dependent upon our commitment to a diverse and inclusive workplace, our level of service, trustworthiness, ethical business practices and other qualities. our colleagues are the cornerstone of this culture, and acts of misconduct by any employee, and particularly by senior management, could erode trust and confidence and damage our reputation among existing and potential clients and other stakeholders. negative public opinion could result from actual or alleged conduct by us or those currently or formerly associated with us in any number of activities or circumstances, including operations, employment related offenses such as sexual harassment and discrimination, regulatory compliance, and the use and protection of data and systems, satisfaction of client expectations, and from actions taken by regulators or others in response to such conduct. this damage to our reputation could affect the confidence of our clients, rating agencies, regulators, stockholders and the other parties in a wide range of transactions that are important to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 16 the loss of members of our senior management team or other key colleagues could have a material adverse effect on our business . we rely upon the contributions of our senior management team to establish and implement our business strategy and to manage the future growth of our business. the loss of any of the senior management team could limit our ability to successfully execute our business strategy or adversely affect our ability to retain existing and attract new clients. moreover, we could be adversely affected if we fail to adequately plan for the succession of members of our senior management team . across all of our businesses, our colleagues are critical to developing and retaining the client relationships as well as performing the services on which our revenues are earned. it is therefore important for us to attract, incentivize and retain significant revenue-producing employees and the key managerial and other professionals who support them. we face numerous challenges in this regard, including the intense competition for talent and the general mobility of colleagues. losing colleagues who manage or support substantial client relationships or possess substantial experience or expertise could adversely affect our ability to secure and complete client engagements, which could adversely affect our results of operations. and, subject to applicable enforceable restrictive covenants, if a key employee were to join an existing competitor or form a competing company, some of our clients could choose to use the services of that competitor instead of our services. we face significant competitive pressures in each of our businesses, including from disintermediation. as a global professional services firm, the company faces intense, sustained competition in each of its businesses, and the competitive landscape continues to change and evolve. our ability to compete successfully depends on a variety of factors, including the quality and expertise of our colleagues, our geographic reach, the sophistication and quality of our services, our pricing relative to competitors, our customers' ability to self-insure or use internal resources instead of consultants, and our ability to respond to changes in client demand and industry conditions. some of our competitors may have greater financial resources, or may be better positioned to respond to technological and other changes in the industries we serve, and they may be able to compete more effectively. if we are unable to respond successfully to the changing conditions we face, our businesses, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely impacted. in our risk and insurance services segment, in addition to the challenges posed by capital market alternatives to traditional insurance and reinsurance, we compete intensely against a wide range of other insurance and reinsurance brokerage and risk advisory firms that operate on a global, regional, national or local scale for both client business and employee talent. we also compete with insurance and reinsurance companies that market and service their insurance products directly to consumers and without the assistance of brokers or other market intermediaries, and with various other companies that provide risk-related services or alternatives to traditional brokerage services , including those that rely almost exclusively on technological solutions or platforms. this competition is intensified by an industry trend toward a "syndicated" or "distributed" approach to the purchase of insurance and reinsurance brokerage services, where a client engages multiple brokers to service different portions of the client's account. in addition, third party capital providers have entered the insurance and reinsurance risk transfer market offering products and capital directly to our clients. in our consulting segment, we compete for business with numerous consulting firms and similar organizations, many of whom also provide, or are affiliated with firms that provided, accounting, information systems, technology and financial services. such competitors may be able to offer more comprehensive products and services to potential clients, which may give them a competitive advantage. consolidation in the industries we serve could adversely affect our business. companies in the industries that we serve may seek to achieve economies of scale and other synergies by combining with or acquiring other companies. if two or more of our current clients merge, or consolidate or combine their operations, it may decrease the amount of work that we perform for these clients. if one of our current clients merges or consolidates with a company that relies on another provider for its services, we may lose work from that client or lose the opportunity to gain additional work. any of these or similar possible results of industry consolidation could adversely affect our business. the 17 insurance industry continued to see robust market consolidation in 2017, and this trend could continue or accelerate in 2018. as insurance and reinsurance companies continue to consolidate, guy carpenter's smaller client base may be more susceptible to this risk given the limited number of insurance company clients and reinsurers in the marketplace. we rely on a large number of vendors and other third parties to perform key functions of our business operations and to provide services to our clients. these vendors and third parties may act in ways that could harm our business. we rely on a large number of vendors and other third parties, and in some cases subcontractors, to provide services, data and information such as technology, information security, funds transfers, data processing, and administration and support functions that are critical to the operations of our business. these third parties include correspondents, agents and other brokers and intermediaries, insurance markets, data providers, plan trustees, payroll service providers, software and system vendors, health plan providers, investment managers, risk modeling providers, outsourced providers of client-related services and providers of human resource functions, such as recruiters. as we do not fully control the actions of these third parties, we are subject to the risk that their decisions or operations may adversely impact us and replacing these service providers could create significant delay and expense. a failure by the third parties to comply with service level agreement, or regulatory or legal requirements in a high quality and timely manner, particularly during periods of our peak demand for their services, could result in economic and reputational harm to us. in addition, these third parties face their own technology, operating, business and economic risks, and any significant failures by them, including the improper use or disclosure of our confidential client, employee, or company information or failure to comply with applicable law, could cause harm to our reputation or otherwise expose us to liability. an interruption in or the cessation of service by any service provider as a result of systems failures, capacity constraints, financial difficulties or for any other reason could disrupt our operations, impact our ability to offer certain products and services, and result in contractual or regulatory penalties, liability claims from clients or employees, damage to our reputation and harm to our business. business resiliency risks our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem could cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. if we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity event, such as an earthquake, hurricane, flood, terrorist attack, pandemic, security breach, cyber-attack, power loss or telecommunications failure, our ability to operate will depend, in part, on the continued availability of our personnel, our office facilities and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. in such an event, we could experience operational challenges that could have a material adverse effect on our business. the risk of business disruption is more pronounced in certain geographic areas, including major metropolitan centers, like new york or london, where we have significant operations and approximately 3,500 colleagues in each location, and in certain countries and regions in which we operate that are subject to higher potential threat of terrorist attacks or military conflicts. our operations depend in particular upon our ability to protect our technology infrastructure against damage. if a business continuity event occurs, we could lose client or company data or experience interruptions to our operations or delivery of services to our clients, which could have a material adverse effect. a cyber-attack or other business continuity event affecting us or a key vendor or other third party could result in a significant and extended disruption in the functioning of our information technology systems or operations, requiring us to incur significant expense to address and remediate or otherwise resolve such issues. for example, hackers have increasingly targeted companies by attacking internet-connected industrial control and safety control systems. an extended outage could result in the loss of clients and a decline in our revenues. we regularly assess and take steps to improve our existing business continuity plans and key management succession. however, a disaster or other continuity event on a significant scale or affecting certain of our key operating areas within or across regions, or our inability to successfully recover from such an event, could materially interrupt our business operations and result in material financial loss, loss 18 of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, damaged client relationships and legal liability. our business disruption insurance may also not fully cover, in type or amount , the cost of a successful recovery in the event of such a disruption. financial risks the impacts from recently-passed u.s. federal tax reform remain uncertain. on december 22, 2017, president trump signed into law the tax legislation commonly known as the "tax cuts and jobs act" (the "tcja") that significantly changes the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986, as amended. the tcja, which generally became effective on january 1, 2018, revises the u.s. tax code by, among other things, lowering the corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, limiting deductibility of interest expense and implementing a broadly territorial tax system. the tcja also imposes a one-time repatriation tax on deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. while the tcja is expected to have a favorable impact on our overall effective tax rate as reported under generally accepted accounting principles both in the first fiscal quarter of 2018 and subsequent reporting periods, the legislation also resulted in aggregate provisional tax charges in the fourth quarter of 2017 of approximately $460 million, primarily related to the re-measurement of the net u.s. deferred tax asset and the deemed repatriation tax. the tcja was enacted late in 2017 and limited implementation guidance was provided. as clarified by the sec in staff accounting bulletin no. 118, we made provisional estimates of the deemed repatriation tax impact. moreover, certain provisions of the tcja, such as the base erosion and anti-abuse tax and the global intangible low-tax income ("gilti") provision and any adverse impacts from new guidance on the implementation of the tcja may create new pressure on our effective tax rate in future periods. it is also currently unknown if and to what extent various states will conform to the tcja and the impact such changes in state-tax law may have. the estimated impacts of the new law are based on our current knowledge and assumptions, and therefore the ultimate impacts remain uncertain. given the significant complexity of the tcja, anticipated guidance from the u.s. treasury about implementing the tcja, and the potential for new legislation or additional guidance from the securities and exchange commission, the financial accounting standards board or other regulatory authorities related to the tcja, recognized impacts in future periods could be significantly different from our current estimates. such uncertainty may also result in increased scrutiny from, or disagreements with, tax authorities. our results of operations could be adversely affected by macroeconomic conditions, political events and market conditions. macroeconomic conditions, political events and other market conditions around the world affect our clients' businesses and the markets they serve. these conditions may reduce demand for our services or depress pricing for those services, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. changes in macroeconomic and political conditions could also shift demand to services for which we do not have a competitive advantage, and this could negatively affect the amount of business that we are able to obtain. for example, recently there has been a move toward protectionist laws and business practices in some countries, which could favor local competition and adversely affect our business. in particular, the united kingdom's pending exit from the european union, referred to as "brexit," continues to create political and economic uncertainty, particularly in the united kingdom and the e.u., and this uncertainty may last for years. our business in the united kingdom, the e.u. and worldwide could be affected during this period of uncertainty, and perhaps longer, by the impact of the united kingdom's referendum. if the demand for our products and services declines as a result of these or any other macroeconomic conditions, political events or market conditions, we may be required to respond in a way which could adversely affect our ability to execute our business strategy. our investments, including our minority investments in other companies as well as our cash investments and those held in a fiduciary capacity, are subject to general credit, liquidity, counterparty, foreign exchange, market and interest rate risks. these risks may be exacerbated by global macroeconomic conditions, market volatility and regulatory, financial and other difficulties affecting the companies in which we have invested or that may be faced by financial institution counterparties. during times of stress in the banking industry, counterparty risk can quickly escalate, potentially resulting in substantial trading and investment losses for corporate and other investors. in addition, we may incur investment losses as a 19 result of unusual and unpredictable market developments, and we may continue to experience reduced investment earnings if the yields on investments deemed to be low risk remain at or near their current low levels. if the banking system or the fixed income, interest rate, credit or equity markets deteriorate, the value and liquidity of our investments could be adversely affected. finally, the value of the company's assets held in other jurisdictions, including cash holdings, may decline due to foreign exchange fluctuations. if we are unable to collect our receivables, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. our business depends on our ability to obtain payment from our clients of the amounts they owe us for the work we perform. as of december 31, 2017, our receivables for our commissions and fees were approximately $3.8 billion, or approximately one-quarter of our total annual revenues. macroeconomic or political conditions could result in financial difficulties for our clients, which could cause clients to delay payments to us, request modifications to their payment arrangements that could increase our receivables balance or default on their payment obligations to us. in addition, if we experience an increase in the time it takes to bill and collect for our services, our cash flows could be adversely affected. we may not be able to obtain sufficient financing on favorable terms. the maintenance and growth of our business, the payment of dividends and our ability to make share repurchases rely on our access to capital, which depends in large part on cash flow generated by our business and the availability of equity and debt financing. certain of our businesses such as gc securities and mmc securities (europe) limited also rely on financings by us to fund debt and equity capital raising offerings by their clients. there can be no assurance that our operations will generate sufficient positive cash flow to finance all of our capital needs or that we will be able to obtain equity or debt financing on favorable terms. in addition, our ability to obtain financing will depend in part upon prevailing conditions in credit and capital markets, which are beyond our control. our defined benefit pension plan obligations could cause the company's financial position, earnings and cash flows to fluctuate. our defined benefit pension obligations and the assets set aside to fund those obligations are sensitive to certain changes in the financial markets. any such changes may result in increased pension expense or additional cash payments to fund these plans. the company has significant defined benefit pension obligations to its current and former employees, totaling approximately $16.3 billion, and related plan assets of approximately $16.2 billion, at december 31, 2017 on a u.s. gaap basis. the company's policy for funding its defined benefit pension plans is to contribute amounts at least sufficient to meet the funding requirements set forth by law. in the united states, contributions to these plans are based on erisa guidelines. outside the united states, contributions are generally based on statutory requirements and local funding practices, which may differ from measurements under u.s. gaap. in the u.k., for example, the assumptions used to determine pension contributions are the result of legally-prescribed negotiations between the company and the plans' trustee. currently, the use of these assumptions results in a lower funded status than determined under u.s. gaap and may result in contributions irrespective of the u.s. gaap funded status. the financial calculations relating to our defined benefit pension plans are complex. pension plan assets could decrease as the result of poor future asset performance. also, pension plan liabilities, periodic pension expense and future funding amounts could increase as a result of a decline in the interest rates we use to discount our pension liabilities, longer lifespans than those reflected in our mortality assumptions, actual investment return that is less than the expected return on assets, adverse changes in laws or regulations and other variables. while we have taken steps to mitigate the impact of pension volatility on our earnings and cash funding requirements, these strategies may not be successful. accordingly, given the magnitude of our worldwide pension plans, variations in or reassessment of the preceding or other factors or potential miscalculations relating to our defined benefit pension plans could cause significant fluctuation from year to year in our earnings and cash flow, as well as our pension plan assets, liabilities and equity, and may result in increased levels of contributions to our pension plans. 20 our significant non-u.s. operations expose us to exchange rate fluctuations and various risks that could impact our business. a significant portion of our business is located outside of the united states. we are subject to exchange rate movement because we must translate the financial results of our foreign subsidiaries into u.s. dollars and also because some of our subsidiaries receive revenue other than in their functional currencies. exchange rate movements may change over time, and they could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows reported in u.s. dollars. our u.s. operations earn revenue and incur expenses primarily in u.s. dollars. in certain jurisdictions, however, our risk and insurance services operations generate revenue in a number of different currencies, but expenses are almost entirely incurred in local currency. due to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, we are subject to economic exposure as well as currency translation exposure on the net operating results of our operations. because the non-u.s. based revenue that is exposed to foreign exchange fluctuations is approximately 50% of total revenue, exchange rate movement can have a significant impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. for additional discussion, see "market risk and credit risk-foreign currency risk" in part ii, item 7a ("quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk") of this report. we may not be able to receive dividends or other distributions in needed amounts from our subsidiaries. the company is organized as a legal entity separate and distinct from our operating subsidiaries. because we do not have significant operations of our own, we are dependent upon dividends and other payments from our operating subsidiaries to meet our obligations for paying principal and interest on outstanding debt obligations, paying dividends to stockholders, repurchasing our common stock under our share repurchase program and paying corporate expenses. in the event our operating subsidiaries are unable to pay sufficient dividends and make other payments to the company, we may not be able to service our debt, pay dividends on or repurchase our common stock or meet our other obligations. further, the company derives a significant portion of its revenue and operating profit from operating subsidiaries located outside the united states. funds from the current year's earnings of the company's non-u.s. operating subsidiaries are regularly repatriated to the united states. a number of factors could arise that could limit our ability to repatriate funds or could make repatriation cost-prohibitive, including, but not limited to, the imposition of currency controls and other government restrictions on repatriation in the jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and the imposition of withholding and other taxes on such payments . in the event we are unable to generate or repatriate cash from our operating subsidiaries, our overall liquidity could deteriorate and our ability to finance our obligations, including to pay dividends on or repurchase our common stock, could be adversely affected . our quarterly revenues and profitability may fluctuate significantly. quarterly variations in revenues and operating results may occur due to several factors. these include: the number of client engagements during a quarter; the possibility that clients may decide to delay or terminate a current or anticipated project as a result of factors unrelated to our work product or progress; fluctuations in hiring and utilization rates and clients' ability to terminate engagements without penalty; the impact of changes in accounting standards or in our accounting estimates or assumptions, including from the adoption of the new revenue recognition, pension or lease accounting standards; the impact on us or our clients of changes in legislation, regulation and legal guidance or interpretations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including with respect to u.s. tax reform; seasonality due to the impact of regulatory deadlines, policy renewals and other timing factors to which our clients are subject; the success of our acquisitions or investments; 21 macroeconomic factors such as changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and global securities markets, particularly in the case of mercer, where fees in its investments business and certain other business lines are derived from the value of assets under management or administration; and general economic conditions, including factors beyond our control affecting economic conditions such as severe weather or other catastrophic events, since results of operations are directly affected by the levels of business activity of our clients, which in turn are affected by the level of economic activity in the industries and markets that they serve. a significant portion of our total operating expenses is relatively fixed in the short term. therefore, a variation in the number of client assignments or in the timing of the initiation or the completion of client assignments can cause significant variations in quarterly operating results for these businesses. credit rating downgrades would increase our financing costs and could subject us to operational risk. currently, the company's senior debt is rated a- by s&amp;p and baa1 by moody's. the ratings from both s&amp;p and moody's currently carry a stable outlook. if we need to raise capital in the future (for example, in order to fund maturing debt obligations or finance acquisitions or other initiatives), credit rating downgrades would increase our financing costs, and could limit our access to financing sources. further, a downgrade to a rating below investment-grade could result in greater operational risks through increased operating costs and increased competitive pressures. global operations we are exposed to multiple risks associated with the global nature of our operations. we conduct business globally. in 2017, approximately 50% of the company's total revenue was generated from operations outside the united states, and over one-half of our employees were located outside the united states. we expect to expand our non-u.s. operations further. the geographic breadth of our activities subjects us to significant legal, economic, operational, market, compliance and reputational risks. these include, among others, risks relating to: economic and political conditions in the countries in which we operate; client concentration in certain high-growth countries in which we operate; the length of payment cycles and potential difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; unexpected increases in taxes or changes in u.s. or foreign tax laws, rulings, policies or related legal and regulatory interpretations, including recent international initiatives to require multinational enterprises, like ours, to report profitability on a country-by-country basis, which could increase scrutiny by, or cause disagreements with, foreign tax authorities; potential transfer pricing-related tax exposures that may result from the flow of funds among our subsidiaries and affiliates in the various jurisdictions in which we operate; withholding or other taxes that foreign governments may impose on the payment of dividends or other remittances to us from our non-u.s. subsidiaries; potential conflicts of interest that may arise as we expand the scope of our businesses and our client base; international hostilities, terrorist activities, natural disasters and infrastructure disruptions; local investment or other financial restrictions that foreign governments may impose; potential lawsuits, investigations, market studies, reviews or other activity by foreign regulatory or law enforcement authorities, which may result in related private litigation or increased scrutiny from u.s. or other regulators; potential costs and difficulties in complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations (including tax systems) administered by foreign government agencies, some of which may conflict with u.s. or other sources of law; potential costs and difficulties in complying, or monitoring compliance, with foreign and u.s. laws and regulations that are applicable to our operations abroad, including trade 22 sanctions laws relating to countries such as cuba, iran, russia, sudan and syria and anti-corruption laws such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act 2010; limitations or restrictions that foreign or u.s. governments and regulators may impose on the products or services we sell, the methods by which we sell our products and services and the manner in which and the amounts we are compensated; limitations that foreign governments may impose on the conversion of currency or the payment of dividends or other remittances to us from our non-u.s. subsidiaries; engaging and relying on third parties to perform services on behalf of the company; and potential difficulties in monitoring employees in geographically dispersed locations. acquisitions and dispositions risks we face risks when we acquire and dispose of businesses. we have a history of making acquisitions and investments, including a total of 111 in the period 2012-2017. we expect that acquisitions will continue to be a key part of our business strategy. our success in this regard will depend on our ability to identify and compete for appropriate acquisition candidates and to complete the transactions we decide to pursue with favorable results. as we typically acquire other professional services firms, the success of our transactions is also highly dependent on the retention of the key employees of our acquisition targets. while we intend that our acquisitions will improve our competitiveness and profitability, we cannot be certain that our past or future acquisitions will be accretive to earnings or otherwise meet our operational or strategic expectations. acquisitions involve special risks, including accounting, regulatory, compliance, tax, information technology or human resources issues that could arise in connection with, or as a result of, the acquisition of the acquired company; the assumption of unanticipated liabilities and contingencies; difficulties in integrating acquired businesses; possible management distraction; and the inability of acquired businesses to achieve the levels of revenue, profit, productivity or synergies we anticipate or otherwise perform as we expect on the timeline contemplated. in addition, if in the future, the performance of our reporting units or an acquired business varies from our projections or assumptions, or estimates about future profitability of our reporting units or an acquired business change, the estimated fair value of our reporting units or an acquired business could change materially and could result in an impairment of goodwill and other acquisition-related intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet or in adjustments in contingent payment amounts. as of december 31, 2017, the company's consolidated balance sheet reflected $10.4 billion of goodwill and intangible assets, representing approximately 51% of the company's total consolidated assets and allocated by reporting segment as follows: risk and insurance services, $7.6 billion and consulting, $2.8 billion. given the significant size of the company's goodwill and intangible assets, an impairment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any given period. when we dispose of businesses, we may continue to be subject to certain liabilities of that business after its disposition relating to the period of our ownership and may not be able to negotiate for limitations on those liabilities. we are also subject to the risk that the sales price is less than the amount reflected on our balance sheet. 23 risks relating to our risk and insurance services segment our risk and insurance services segment, conducted through marsh and guy carpenter, represented 54% of the company's total revenue in 2017. our business in this segment is subject to particular risks. results in our risk and insurance services segment may be adversely affected by a general decline in economic activity. demand for many types of insurance and reinsurance generally rises or falls as economic growth expands or slows. this dynamic affects the level of commissions and fees generated by marsh and guy carpenter. to the extent our clients become adversely affected by declining business conditions, they may choose to limit their purchases of insurance and reinsurance coverage, as applicable, which would inhibit our ability to generate commission revenue and other revenue based on premiums placed by us. also, the insurance they seek to obtain through us may be impacted by changes in their assets, property values, sales or number of employees, which may reduce our commission revenue, and they may decide not to purchase our risk advisory or other services, which would inhibit our ability to generate fee revenue. moreover, insolvencies and combinations associated with an economic downturn, especially insolvencies and combinations in the insurance industry, could adversely affect our brokerage business through the loss of clients or by limiting our ability to place insurance and reinsurance business, as well as our revenues from insurers. guy carpenter is especially susceptible to this risk given the limited number of insurance company clients and reinsurers in the market place. volatility or declines in premiums and other market trends may significantly impede our ability to grow revenues and profitability. a significant portion of our risk and insurance services revenue consists of commissions paid to us out of the premiums that insurers and reinsurers charge our clients for coverage. we do not determine the insurance premiums on which our commissions are generally based. our revenues and profitability are subject to change to the extent that premium rates fluctuate or trend in a particular direction. the potential for changes in premium rates is significant, due to the normal cycles of pricing in the commercial insurance and reinsurance markets. as traditional insurance companies continue to rely on non-affiliated brokers or agents to generate premium, those insurance companies may seek to reduce their expenses by lowering their commission rates. the reduction of these commission rates, along with general volatility or declines in premiums, may significantly affect our profitability. because we do not determine the timing or extent of premium pricing changes, it is difficult to accurately forecast our commission revenues, including whether they will significantly decline. as a result, we may have to adjust our plans for future acquisitions, capital expenditures, dividend payments, loan repayments and other expenditures to account for unexpected changes in revenues, and any decreases in premium rates may adversely affect the results of our operations. in addition to movements in premium rates, our ability to generate premium-based commission revenue may be challenged by disintermediation and the growing availability of alternative methods for clients to meet their risk-protection needs. this trend includes a greater willingness on the part of corporations to self-insure, the use of captive insurers, and the presence of capital markets-based solutions for traditional insurance and reinsurance needs. further, the profitability of our risk and insurances services segment depends in part on our ability to be compensated for the analytical services and other advice that we provide, including the consulting and analytics services that we provide to insurers. if we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate billing rates for all of our services, our margins and profitability could decline. adverse legal developments and future regulations concerning how intermediaries are compensated by insurers or clients, as well as allegations of anti-competitive behavior or conflicts of interest more broadly, could have a material adverse effect on marsh's business, results of operations and financial condition. the ways in which insurance intermediaries are compensated receive scrutiny from regulators in part because of the potential for anti-competitive behavior and conflicts of interest. the vast majority of the compensation that marsh receives is in the form of retail fees and commissions that are paid by the client or paid from premium that is paid by the client. the amount of other compensation that we receive from 24 insurance companies, separate from retail fees and commissions, has increased in the last several years, both on an underlying basis and through acquisition. this other compensation includes payment for (i) consulting and analytics services provided to insurers; (ii) administrative and other services provided to insurers (including services relating to the administration and management of quota shares, lineslips, panels and other facilities); and (iii) contingent commissions (paid by insurers based on factors such as volume or profitability of marsh's placements). these other revenue streams present potential regulatory, litigation and reputational risks that may arise from alleged anti-competitive behavior or conflicts of interest, and future changes in the regulatory environment may impact our ability to collect such revenue. for example, in november 2017, the fca announced the terms of reference for a market study concerning the london wholesale insurance broker sector, which affects marsh and guy carpenter. the fca is conducting the study to assess "how effective competition is working in the wholesale insurance broker sector" and "how brokers influence competition in the underwriting sector." many of the questions raised by the fca in the terms of reference relate to broker compensation and fee-generating business practices. the fca is expected to publish its interim report in the fall of 2018, with a final report expected in 2019. the timing and impacts of the study remain uncertain, and the study may lead to remedies on the industry that could adversely impact marsh or guy carpenter's business. these or other adverse regulatory, legal or other developments could have a material adverse effect on our business and expose the company to negative publicity and reputational harm. risks relating to our consulting segment our consulting segment, conducted through mercer and oliver wyman group, represented 46% of our total revenue in 2017. our businesses in this segment are subject to particular risks. mercer's investment management and related services (ims) business is subject to a number of risks, including risks related to third-party investment managers, operational risk, conflicts of interest, asset performance and regulatory compliance, that, if realized, could result in significant damage to our business. mercer's ims business provides clients with investment consulting and investment management (also referred to as "delegated solutions" or "fiduciary management") services. in the investment consulting business, clients make and implement their own investment decisions based upon advice provided by mercer. in its delegated solutions business, mercer implements the client's investment policy by engaging and overseeing third-party asset managers who determine which investments to buy and sell. to effect implementation of a client's investment policy, mercer may utilize its "manager of managers" investment funds. mercer's ims business is subject to a number of risks, including risks related to third-parties, our operations, conflicts of interest, asset performance and regulatory compliance and scrutiny, which could arise in connection with these offerings. for example, mercer's due diligence on an asset manager may fail to uncover material deficiencies or fraud that could result in investment losses to a client. there is a risk that mercer will fail to properly implement a client's investment policy, which could cause an incorrect or untimely allocation of client assets among asset managers or strategies. mercer may also be perceived as recommending certain asset managers to clients, or offering delegated solutions to an investment consulting client, solely to enhance its own compensation. asset classes may perform poorly, or asset managers may underperform their benchmarks, due to poor market performance, a downturn in the global equity markets, negligence or other reasons, resulting in poor returns or loss of client capital. these risks, if realized, could result in significant liability and damage our business. in addition, in june 2017, the fca issued a final report in connection with a market study of the u.k. asset management industry, which includes asset managers and investment consultants, including mercer. following the report, in september 2017, the fca announced its decision to refer the investment consulting and fiduciary management markets to the u.k. competition &amp; markets authority (the "cma") for a market investigation. the cma expects to conclude its investigation of the investment consulting and fiduciary management markets by march 2019, and the cma may impose remedies on the industry that may adversely affect mercer's u.k. investment consulting and delegated solutions businesses. 25 revenues for the services provided by our consulting segment may decline for various reasons, including as a result of changes in economic conditions, the value of equity, debt and other asset markets, our clients' or an industry's financial condition or government regulation. until recently, global economic conditions have negatively affected businesses and financial institutions. many of our clients, including financial institutions, corporations, government entities and pension plans, have reduced expenses, including amounts spent on consulting services, and used internal resources instead of consultants. the evolving needs and financial circumstances of our clients may reduce demand for our consulting services and our revenues and profitability. if the economy or markets in which we operate experience weakness or deteriorate, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, some of mercer's ims business generates fees based upon the value of the clients' assets under management or advisement. changes in the value of equity, debt, currency, real estate, commodities or other asset classes could cause the value of assets under management or advisement, and the fees received by mercer, to decline. such changes could also cause clients to withdraw funds from mercer's ims business in favor of other investment service providers. in either case, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. further, revenue received by mercer as investment manager to the majority of the mercer-managed investment funds is reported in accordance with u.s. gaap on a gross basis rather than a net basis, with sub-advisor fees reflected as an expense. therefore the reported revenue for these offerings does not fully reflect the amount net revenue ultimately attributable to mercer. demand for many of mercer's benefits services is affected by government regulation and tax laws, rulings, policies and interpretations, which drive our clients' needs for benefits-related services. significant changes in government regulations affecting the value, use or delivery of benefits and human resources programs, including changes in regulations relating to health and welfare plans, defined contribution plans or defined benefit plans, may adversely affect the demand for or profitability of mercer's services. factors affecting defined benefit pension plans and the services we provide relating to those plans could adversely affect mercer. mercer currently provides corporate, multi-employer and public clients with actuarial, consulting and administration services relating to defined benefit pension plans. the nature of our work is complex. our actuarial services involve numerous assumptions and estimates regarding future events, including interest rates used to discount future liabilities, estimated rates of return for a plan's assets, healthcare cost trends, salary projections and participants' life expectancies. our consulting services involve the drafting and interpretation of trust deeds and other complex documentation governing pension plans. our administration services include calculating benefits within complicated pension plan structures. clients dissatisfied with our services have brought, and may bring, significant claims against us, particularly in the united states and the united kingdom. in addition, a number of mercer's clients have frozen or curtailed their defined benefit plans and have moved to defined contribution plans resulting in reduced revenue for mercer's retirement business. these developments could adversely affect mercer's business and operating results. the profitability of our consulting segment may decline if we are unable to achieve or maintain adequate utilization and pricing rates for our consultants. the profitability of our consulting businesses depends in part on ensuring that our consultants maintain adequate utilization rates (i.e., the percentage of our consultants' working hours devoted to billable activities). our utilization rates are affected by a number of factors, including: our ability to transition consultants promptly from completed projects to new assignments, and to engage newly-hired consultants quickly in revenue-generating activities; our ability to continually secure new business engagements, particularly because a portion of our work is project-based rather than recurring in nature; our ability to forecast demand for our services and thereby maintain appropriate headcount in each of our geographies and workforces; our ability to manage attrition; unanticipated changes in the scope of client engagements; 26 the potential for conflicts of interest that might require us to decline client engagements that we otherwise would have accepted; our need to devote time and resources to sales, training, professional development and other non-billable activities; the potential disruptive impact of acquisitions and dispositions; and general economic conditions. if the utilization rate for our consulting professionals declines, our profit margin and profitability could decline. in addition, the profitability of our consulting businesses depends in part on the prices we are able to charge for our services. the prices we charge are affected by a number of factors, including: clients' perception of our ability to add value through our services; market demand for the services we provide; our ability to develop new services and the introduction of new services by competitors; the pricing policies of our competitors; the extent to which our clients develop in-house or other capabilities to perform the services that they might otherwise purchase from us; and general economic conditions. if we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate billing rates for our services, our profit margin and profitability could decline. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk and credit risk certain of the company's revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and equity markets. interest rate risk and credit risk interest income generated from the company's cash investments as well as invested fiduciary funds will vary with the general level of interest rates. the company had the following investments subject to variable interest rates: (in millions of dollars) december 31, 2017 cash and cash equivalents invested in money market funds, certificates of deposit and time deposits $ 1,205 fiduciary cash and investments $ 4,847 based on the above balances, if short-term interest rates increased or decreased by 10%, or 11 basis points, over the full year, annual interest income, including interest earned on fiduciary funds, would increase or decrease by approximately $4 million. in addition to interest rate risk, our cash investments and fiduciary fund investments are subject to potential loss of value due to counter-party credit risk. to minimize this risk, the company and its subsidiaries invest pursuant to a board approved investment policy. the policy mandates the preservation of principal and liquidity and requires broad diversification with counter-party limits assigned based primarily on credit rating and type of investment. the company carefully monitors its cash and fiduciary fund investments and will further restrict the portfolio as appropriate to market conditions. the majority of cash and fiduciary fund investments are invested in short-term bank deposits and liquid money market funds. foreign currency risk the translated values of revenue and expense from the company's international operations are subject to fluctuations due to changes in currency exchange rates. the non-u.s. based revenue that is exposed to foreign exchange fluctuations is approximately 50% of total revenue. we periodically use forward contracts and options to limit foreign currency exchange rate exposure on net income and cash flows for specific, clearly defined transactions arising in the ordinary course of business. although the company has significant revenue generated in foreign locations which is subject to foreign exchange rate fluctuations, in most cases both the foreign currency revenue and expenses are in the functional currency of the foreign location. as such, under normal circumstances, the u.s. dollar translation of both the revenues and expenses, as well as the potentially offsetting movements of various currencies against the u.s. dollar, generally tends to mitigate the impact on net operating income of foreign currency risk. however, there have been periods where the impact was not mitigated due to external market factors, and external macroeconomic events, such as the vote on "brexit" in the united kingdom, may result in greater foreign exchange rate fluctuations in the future. if foreign exchange rates of major currencies (euro, sterling, australian dollar and canadian dollar) moved 10% in the same direction against the u.s. dollar compared with the foreign exchange rates in 2017 , the company estimates net operating income would increase or decrease by approximately $60 million. the company has exposure to approximately 80 foreign currencies overall. in continental europe, the largest amount of revenue from renewals for the risk &amp; insurance services segment occurs in the first quarter. equity price risk the company holds investments in both public and private companies as well as private equity funds. investments of approximately $97 million are classified as available for sale, which includes the company's investment in benefitfocus. approximately $62 million are accounted for using the cost method and $ 405 million are accounted for using the equity method, which includes the company's 50 investments in alexander forbes. the investments are subject to risk of changes in market value, which, if determined to be other than temporary, could result in realized impairment losses. the company periodically reviews the carrying value of such investments to determine if any valuation adjustments are appropriate under the applicable accounting pronouncements. as of december 31, 2017, the carrying value of the company's investment in alexander forbes was $ 266 million . as of december 31, 2017, the market value of the approximately 443 million shares of alexander forbes owned by the company, based on the december 31, 2017 closing share price of 6.87 south african rand per share, was approximately $ 239 million . other a number of lawsuits and regulatory proceedings are pending. see note 14 ("claims, lawsuits and other contingencies") to the consolidated financial statements included in this report. 51risk factors you should consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information presented in this report. these risks have the potential to materially adversely affect the company's business, results of operations or financial condition. risks relating to the company generally acquisitions and dispositions risks we face risks when we acquire businesses, including risks related to our proposed acquisition of jlt. we have a history of making acquisitions and investments, including a total of 114 in the period from 2013 to 2018. in september 2018, we announced our agreement to acquire the jardine lloyd thompson group plc ("jlt"). we expect the acquisition of jlt (the "jlt transaction") to close in the spring of 2019; however, we can provide no assurance that the various conditions to closing the jlt transaction will be satisfied. we may not be able to successfully integrate the business of jlt or any other business that we may acquire into our own business, or achieve any expected cost savings or synergies from such integration. the potential difficulties that we may face which could cause the results of the acquisition of jlt or any other business to differ from our expectations, include, but are not limited to, the following: the retention of key colleagues and clients; failure to implement our business plan for the combined business or to achieve anticipated revenue or profitability targets; delays or difficulties in completing the integration of acquired companies or assets; higher than expected costs, lower than expected cost savings and/or a need to allocate resources to manage unexpected operating difficulties; issues in integrating information and technology, accounting, tax, financial reporting, human resources, and other systems; assumption of unknown liabilities, or other unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities; weaknesses and vulnerabilities in an acquired entity's information systems, either before or after the acquisition, which could expose us to unexpected liabilities or make our own systems more vulnerable to a cyber-attack; changes in applicable laws and regulations, including changes in tax laws and any changes in the u.k. and europe related to brexit; diversion of attention and resources of management; promoting or retaining a positive corporate culture; retaining and obtaining required regulatory approvals, licenses and permits; for acquisitions in which the acquired company's financial performance is incorporated into our financial results, either in full or in part, the dependence on the acquired company's accounting, financial reporting and similar systems, controls and processes; the difficulty of implementing the required controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a u.s. public company, including compliance with the requirements under the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, and the potential for significant deficiencies or material weaknesses related to controls and procedures, particularly for acquisitions of companies headquartered outside the u.s.; the ability to receive dividends and other payments from newly acquired companies; and compliance with all current and potentially applicable u.s. federal and state or foreign laws and regulations, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and u.s. sanctions laws . 12 in addition, if in the future the performance of our reporting units or an acquired business varies from our projections or assumptions, or estimates about future profitability of our reporting units or an acquired business change, the estimated fair value of our reporting units or an acquired business could change materially and could result in an impairment of goodwill and other acquisition-related intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet or in adjustments in contingent payment amounts. given the significant size of the company's goodwill and intangible assets, an impairment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any given period. we expect that acquisitions will continue to be a key part of our business strategy. our success in this regard will depend on our ability to identify and compete for appropriate acquisition candidates and to complete the transactions we decide to pursue with favorable results. when we dispose of businesses, we may continue to be subject to certain liabilities of that business after its disposition relating to the prior period of our ownership and may not be able to negotiate for limitations on those liabilities. we are also subject to the risk that the sales price is less than the amount reflected on our balance sheet. legal and regulatory risks we are subject to significant uninsured exposures arising from errors and omissions, breach of fiduciary duty and other claims. our operating companies provide numerous professional services, including the placement of insurance and the provision of consulting, investment advisory and actuarial services, to clients around the world. as a result, the company and its subsidiaries are subject to a significant number of errors and omissions, breach of fiduciary duty and similar claims, which we refer to collectively as "e&amp;o claims." in our risk and insurance services segment, such claims include allegations of damages arising from our failure to assess clients' risks, advise clients, place coverage or notify insurers of potential claims on behalf of clients in accordance with our obligations to them. in our consulting segment, where we increasingly act in a fiduciary capacity through our investments business, such claims could include allegations of damages arising from the provision of consulting, investments, actuarial, pension administration and other services. these consulting segment services frequently involve complex calculations and other analysis, including (i) making assumptions about, and preparing estimates concerning, contingent future events, (ii) drafting and interpreting complex documentation governing pension plans, (iii) calculating benefits within complex pension structures, (iv) providing investment advice, including guidance on asset allocation and investment strategy, and (v) managing client assets, including the selection of investment managers and implementation of the client's investment policy. we provide these services to a broad client base, including clients in the public sector for our investment services. matters often relate to services provided by the company dating back many years. such claims may subject us to significant liability for monetary damages, including punitive and treble damages, negative publicity and reputational harm, and may divert personnel and management resources. we may be unable to effectively limit our potential liability in certain jurisdictions, including through insurance, or in connection with certain types of claims, particularly those concerning claims of a breach of fiduciary duty. in establishing liabilities for e&amp;o claims under generally accepted accounting principles ("gaap"), the company uses case level reviews by inside and outside counsel, actuarial analysis by oliver wyman group, a subsidiary of the company, and other methods to estimate potential losses. a liability is established when a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable. the liability is assessed quarterly and adjusted as developments warrant. in many cases, the company has not recorded a liability, other than for legal fees to defend the claim, because we are unable, at the present time, to make a determination that a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable. given the challenges inherent in establishing liabilities in accordance with gaap, as well as the unpredictability of e&amp;o claims and the litigation that can flow from them, it is possible that an adverse outcome in a particular matter could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, results of operations or financial condition. we are subject to regulatory investigations, reviews and other inquiries that consume significant management time and, if determined unfavorably to us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. we are subject to regulatory investigations, reviews and other inquiries that consume significant management time and, if determined unfavorably to us, could have a material adverse effect on our 13 business, results of operations or financial condition. for example, in october 2017, the company received a notice that the directorate-general for competition of the european commission had commenced a civil investigation of a number of insurance brokers, including marsh, regarding "the exchange of commercially sensitive information between competitors in relation to aviation and aerospace insurance and reinsurance broking products and services in the european economic area, as well as possible coordination between competitors." in july 2017, the directorate-general for competition of the european commission together with the irish competition and consumer protection commission conducted on-site inspections at the offices of marsh and other industry participants in dublin in connection with an investigation regarding the "possible participation in anticompetitive agreements and/or concerted practices contrary to [e.u. competition law] in the market for commercial motor insurance in the republic of ireland." in january 2019, we received a notice that the administrative council for economic defense anti-trust agency in brazil had commenced an administrative proceeding against a number of insurance brokers, including marsh, and insurers to investigate an alleged sharing of sensitive commercial and competitive confidential information in the aviation insurance and reinsurance sector. these regulatory matters are ongoing , and we are unable to predict their likely timing, outcome or ultimate impact. additional information regarding these investigations and certain other legal and regulatory proceedings is set forth in note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included under part ii, item 8 of this report. in addition, by virtue of the acquisition of jlt, we will assume the legal liabilities of jlt upon closing. accordingly, upon closing of the acquisition, we will become responsible for jlt's legal and regulatory exposures, some of which may be currently unidentified. we cannot guarantee that we are or will be in compliance with all current and potentially applicable u.s. federal and state or foreign laws and regulations, and actions by regulatory authorities or changes in legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business. our activities are subject to extensive regulation under the laws of the united states and its various states, the united kingdom, the european union and its member states and the other jurisdictions in which we operate. for example, we are subject to regulation by agencies such as the securities and exchange commission, finra and state insurance regulators in the united states, the fca and the competition and markets authority (cma) in the united kingdom, and the european commission in the european union, as further described above under part i, item 1 - business (regulation) of this report. we are also subject to trade sanctions laws relating to countries such as cuba, iran, russia, sudan and syria, and anti-corruption laws such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. anti-bribery act. we are subject to numerous other laws on matters as diverse as internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, securities regulation, data privacy and protection, cybersecurity, taxation, anti-trust and competition, immigration, wage-and-hour standards and employment and labor relations. the u.s. and foreign laws and regulations that apply to our operations are complex and may change rapidly, and our efforts to comply and keep up with them require significant resources. in some cases, these laws and regulations may decrease the need for our services, increase our costs, negatively impact our revenues or impose operational limitations on our business, including on the products and services we may offer or on the amount or type of compensation we may collect. while we attempt to comply with applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that we, our employees, our consultants and our contractors and other agents are in full compliance with such laws and regulations or interpretations at all times, or that we will be able to comply with any future laws or regulations. if we fail to comply or are accused of failing to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including those referred to above, we may become subject to investigations, criminal penalties, civil remedies or other consequences, including fines, injunctions, loss of an operating license or approval, increased scrutiny or oversight by regulatory authorities, the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in a particular business or redress to clients or other parties, and we may become exposed to negative publicity or reputational damage. moreover, our failure to comply with laws or regulations in one jurisdiction may result in increased regulatory scrutiny by other regulatory agencies in that jurisdiction or regulatory agencies in other jurisdictions. the cost of compliance and the consequences of failing to be in compliance could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 14 in most jurisdictions, government regulatory authorities have the power to interpret and amend or repeal applicable laws and regulations, and have discretion to grant, renew and revoke the various licenses and approvals we need to conduct our activities. such authorities may require the company to incur substantial costs in order to comply with such laws and regulations. in some areas of our businesses, we act on the basis of our own or the industry's interpretations of applicable laws or regulations, which may conflict from state to state or country to country. in the event those interpretations eventually prove different from the interpretations of regulatory authorities, we may be penalized or precluded from carrying on our previous activities. moreover, the laws and regulations to which we are subject may conflict among the various jurisdictions and countries in which we operate, which increases the likelihood of our businesses being non-compliant in one or more jurisdictions. cybersecurity and data protection risks we could incur significant liability or our reputation could be damaged if our information systems are breached or we otherwise fail to protect client or company data or information systems. we rely on the efficient, uninterrupted and secure operation of complex information technology systems and networks to operate our business and securely process, transmit and store electronic information. in the normal course of business, we also share electronic information with our vendors and other third parties. this electronic information comprises sensitive and confidential data, including information related to financial records, health care, mergers and acquisitions and clients' personal data. our information technology systems and safety control systems, and those of our numerous third-party providers, are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of external threats, including cyber-attacks, computer viruses and other malware, ransomware and other types of data and systems-related modes of attack. our systems are also subject to compromise from internal threats such as improper action by employees, vendors and other third parties with otherwise legitimate access to our systems. moreover, we face the ongoing challenge of managing access controls in a complex environment. the latency of a compromise is often measured in months but could be years, and we may not be able to detect a compromise in a timely manner. we could experience significant financial and reputational harm if our information systems are breached, sensitive client or company data are compromised, surreptitiously modified, rendered inaccessible for any period of time or maliciously made public, or if we fail to make adequate or timely disclosures to the public or law enforcement agencies following any such event, whether due to delayed discovery or a failure to follow existing protocols. we are at risk of attack by a variety of adversaries, including state-sponsored organizations, organized crime, hackers or "hactivists" (activist hackers), through use of increasingly sophisticated methods of attack, including long-term, persistent attacks referred to as advanced persistent threats. these techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems include, among other things, computer viruses, malicious or destructive code, ransomware, social engineering attacks (including phishing and impersonation), hacking and denial-of-service attacks. because these techniques change frequently and new techniques may not be identified until they are launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures, resulting in potential data loss or other damage to information technology systems. as the breadth and complexity of the technologies we use and the software and platforms we develop continue to grow, including as a result of the use of mobile devices, cloud services, "open source" software, social media and the increased reliance on devices connected to the internet (known as the "internet of things"), the potential risk of security breaches and cyber-attacks also increases. despite ongoing efforts to improve our ability to protect data from compromise, we may not be able to protect all of our data across our diverse systems. our policies, employee training (including phishing prevention training), procedures and technical safeguards may also be insufficient to prevent or detect improper access to confidential, personal or proprietary information. in addition, the competition for talent in the data privacy and cybersecurity space is intense, and we may also be unable to hire, develop or retain suitable talent capable of adequately detecting, mitigating or remediating these risks. should an attacker gain access to our network using compromised credentials of an authorized user, we are at risk that the attacker might successfully leverage that access to compromise additional systems and data. certain measures that could increase the security of our systems, such as data encryption (including data at rest encryption), heightened monitoring and logging, scanning for source code errors or 15 deployment of multi-factor authentication, take significant time and resources to deploy broadly, and such measures may not be deployed in a timely manner or be effective against an attack. the inability to implement, maintain and upgrade adequate safeguards could have a material adverse effect on our business. our information systems must be continually updated, patched, and upgraded to protect against known vulnerabilities. the volume of new software vulnerabilities has increased markedly, as has the criticality of patches and other remedial measures. in addition to remediating newly identified vulnerabilities, previously identified vulnerabilities must also be continuously addressed. accordingly, we are at risk that cyber attackers exploit these known vulnerabilities before they have been addressed. due to the large number and age of the systems and platforms that we operate, the increased frequency at which vendors are issuing security patches to their products, the need to test patches and, in some cases coordinate with clients and vendors, before they can be deployed, we perpetually face the substantial risk that we cannot deploy patches in a timely manner. we are also dependent on third party vendors to keep their systems patched and secure in order to protect our data. any failure related to these activities could have a material adverse effect on our business. we have numerous vendors and other third parties who receive personal information from us in connection with the services we offer our clients. in addition, we have migrated certain data, and may increasingly migrate data, to the cloud hosted by third-party providers. some of these vendors and third parties also have direct access to our systems. we are at risk of a cyber-attack involving a vendor or other third party, which could result in a breakdown of such third party's data protection processes or the cyber-attackers gaining access to our infrastructure through the third party. to the extent that a vendor or third party suffers a cyber-attack that compromises its operations, we could incur significant costs and possible service interruption, which could have an adverse effect on our business. we have a history of making acquisitions and investments, and in september 2018 we announced the agreement to acquire jlt. the process of integrating the information systems of the businesses we acquire is complex and exposes us to additional risk. for instance, we may not adequately identify weaknesses and vulnerabilities in an acquired entity's information systems, either before or after the acquisition, which could affect the value we are able to derive from the acquisition, expose us to unexpected liabilities or make our own systems more vulnerable to a cyber-attack. we may also be unable to integrate the systems of the businesses we acquire into our environment in a timely manner, which could further increase these risks until such integration takes place. we have from time to time experienced data incidents and cybersecurity breaches, such as malware incursions (including computer viruses and ransomware), users exceeding their data access authorization, employee misconduct and incidents resulting from human error, such as loss of portable and other data storage devices or misconfiguration of software or hardware resulting in inadvertent exposure of confidential or proprietary information. like many companies, we are subject to social engineering attacks such as regular phishing email campaigns directed at our employees that can result in malware infections and data losses. although these incidents have resulted in data loss and other damages, to date, they have not had a material adverse effect on our business or operations. in the future, these types of incidents could result in confidential, personal or proprietary information being lost or stolen, surreptitiously modified, rendered inaccessible for any period of time, or maliciously made public, including client, employee or company data, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. in the event of a cyber-attack, we might have to take our systems offline, which could interfere with services to our clients or damage our reputation. we also may be unable to detect an incident, assess its severity or impact, or appropriately respond in a timely manner. in addition, our liability insurance, which includes cyber insurance, may not be sufficient in type or amount to cover us against claims related to security breaches, cyber-attacks and other related data and system incidents. 16 the costs to comply with, or our failure to comply with, u.s. and foreign laws related to privacy, data security and data protection, such as the e.u. general data protection regulation, could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and our reputation. in operating our business and providing services and solutions to clients, we store and transfer sensitive employee and client data, including personal data, in and across multiple jurisdictions. we leverage systems and applications that are spread all over the world requiring us to regularly move data across national borders. as a result, we are subject to a variety of laws and regulations in the united states, europe and around the world regarding privacy, data protection, data security and cyber-security. these laws and regulations are continuously evolving and developing. in particular, the number of high-profile security breaches at major companies continues to accelerate, which will likely lead to even greater regulatory scrutiny. the scope and interpretation of the laws that are or may be applicable to us are often uncertain and may be conflicting, particularly with respect to foreign laws. for example, the e.u. general data protection regulation ("gdpr"), which became effective in may 2018, greatly increased the european commission's jurisdictional reach of its laws and adds a broad array of requirements for handling personal data, such as the public disclosure of data breaches, privacy impact assessments, data portability and the appointment of data protection officers in some cases. much remains unknown with respect to how to interpret and implement the gdpr. eu member states are tasked under the gdpr to enact certain implementing legislation that would add to or further interpret the gdpr requirements and potentially extend our obligations and potential liability for failing to meet such obligations. given the breadth and depth of changes in data protection obligations, including classification of data and our commitment to a range of administrative, technical and physical controls to protect data and enable data transfers outside of the eu, our compliance with the gdpr's requirements will continue to require time, resources and review of the technology and systems we use to satisfy the gdpr's requirements, including as eu member states enact their legislation. the implementation of the gdpr has led other jurisdictions to amend, or propose legislation to amend, their existing data protection laws to align with the requirements of the gdpr with the aim of obtaining an adequate level of data protection to facilitate the transfer of personal data to most jurisdictions from the eu. accordingly, the challenges we face in the eu will likely also apply to other jurisdictions outside the eu that adopt laws similar in construction to the gdpr or regulatory frameworks of equivalent complexity. for example, brazil , china, india and japan have also proposed or adopted sweeping new data protection laws, in some cases including data localization laws that will require that personal data stay within their borders. at a state level, california has enacted a broad consumer privacy law that will come into effect in 2020 and several other states have introduced similar bills, or are enacting data localization laws that require data to stay within their borders. in addition to data protection laws, countries and states in the u.s. are enacting cybersecurity laws and regulations. for example, the new york state department of financial services issued in 2017 cybersecurity regulations which impose an array of detailed security measures on covered entities. these requirements are being phased in and the last of them comes into effect on march 1, 2019. all of these evolving compliance and operational requirements impose significant costs that are likely to increase over time, may divert resources from other initiatives and projects and could restrict the way services involving data are offered, all of which may adversely affect our results of operations. furthermore, enforcement actions and investigations by regulatory authorities related to data security incidents and privacy violations continue to increase. unauthorized disclosure or transfer of sensitive or confidential client or company data, whether through systems failure, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, by the company, our vendors or other parties with whom we do business (if they fail to meet the standards we impose) could subject us to significant litigation, monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions, fines and criminal prosecution in one or more jurisdictions. given the complexity of operationalizing the gdpr, the maturity level of proposed compliance frameworks and the relative lack of guidance in the interpretation of its numerous requirements, we and our clients are at risk of enforcement actions taken by eu data protection authorities or litigation from consumer advocacy groups acting on behalf of data subjects. 17 competitive risks our business performance and growth plans could be negatively affected if we are not able to respond effectively to the threat of digital disruption and other technological change. to remain competitive in many of our business areas, we must anticipate and respond effectively to the threat of digital disruption and other technological change. the threat comes from traditional players, such as insurers, through disintermediation as well as from new entrants, such as technology companies, "insurtech" start-up companies and others. these players are focused on using technology and innovation, including artificial intelligence (ai), robotics and blockchain, to simplify and improve the client experience, increase efficiencies, alter business models and effect other potentially disruptive changes in the industries in which we operate. in order to maintain a competitive position, we must continue to upgrade our legacy operating technology and invest in new technologies and new ways to deliver our products and services. we have a number of strategic initiatives involving investments in or partnerships with technology companies as well as investments in technology systems and infrastructure to support our growth strategy. these investments may be costly, may not be profitable or may be less profitable than what we have experienced historically. in some cases, we depend on key vendors and partners to provide technology and other support for our strategic initiatives. if these vendors or partners fail to perform their obligations or otherwise cease to work with us, our ability to execute on our strategic initiatives could be adversely affected. if we do not keep up with technological changes or execute effectively on our strategic initiatives, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted. failure to maintain our corporate culture or damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business. we strive to create a culture in which our colleagues act with integrity and respect and feel comfortable speaking up to report instances of misconduct or other concerns. we are a people business, and our ability to attract and retain employees and clients is highly dependent upon our commitment to a diverse and inclusive workplace, our level of service, trustworthiness, ethical business practices and other qualities. our colleagues are the cornerstone of this culture, and acts of misconduct by any employee, and particularly by senior management, could erode trust and confidence and damage our reputation among existing and potential clients and other stakeholders. negative public opinion could result from actual or alleged conduct by us or those currently or formerly associated with us in any number of activities or circumstances, including operations, employment - related offenses such as sexual harassment and discrimination, regulatory compliance, and the use and protection of data and systems, satisfaction of client expectations, and from actions taken by regulators or others in response to such conduct. any damage to our reputation could affect the confidence of our clients, rating agencies, regulators, stockholders and the other parties in a wide range of transactions that are important to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. the loss of members of our senior management team or other key colleagues could have a material adverse effect on our business. we rely upon the contributions of our senior management team to establish and implement our business strategy and to manage the future growth of our business. the loss of any of the senior management team could limit our ability to successfully execute our business strategy or adversely affect our ability to retain existing and attract new clients. moreover, we could be adversely affected if we fail to adequately plan for the succession of members of our senior management team. across all of our businesses, our colleagues are critical to developing and retaining client relationships as well as performing the services on which our revenues are earned. it is therefore important for us to attract, incentivize and retain significant revenue-producing employees and the key managerial and other professionals who support them. we face numerous challenges in this regard, including the intense competition for talent and the general mobility of colleagues. losing colleagues who manage or support substantial client relationships or possess substantial experience or expertise could adversely affect our ability to secure and complete client engagements, which could adversely affect our results of operations. and, subject to applicable enforceable restrictive 18 covenants, if a key employee were to join an existing competitor or form a competing company, some of our clients could choose to use the services of that competitor instead of our services. we face significant competitive pressures in each of our businesses, including from disintermediation. as a global professional services firm, the company faces intense, sustained competition in each of its businesses, and the competitive landscape continues to change and evolve. our ability to compete successfully depends on a variety of factors, including the quality and expertise of our colleagues, our geographic reach, the sophistication and quality of our services, our pricing relative to competitors, our clients' ability to self-insure or use internal resources instead of consultants, and our ability to respond to changes in client demand and industry conditions. some of our competitors may have greater financial resources, or may be better positioned to respond to technological and other changes in the industries we serve, and they may be able to compete more effectively. if we are unable to respond successfully to the changing conditions we face, our businesses, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely impacted. in our risk and insurance services segment, in addition to the challenges posed by capital market alternatives to traditional insurance and reinsurance, we compete intensely against a wide range of other insurance and reinsurance brokerage and risk advisory firms that operate on a global, regional, national or local scale for both client business and employee talent. in the last ten years, private equity sponsors have invested tens of billions of dollars into the insurance brokerage sector, transforming existing players and creating new ones to compete with large global and regional brokers. we also compete with in-house brokers, captive insurance companies, insurance and reinsurance companies that market and service their insurance products directly to consumers and without the assistance of brokers or other market intermediaries, and with various other companies that provide risk-related services or alternatives to traditional brokerage services, including those that rely almost exclusively on technological solutions or platforms. this competition is intensified by an industry trend toward a "syndicated" or "distributed" approach to the purchase of insurance and reinsurance brokerage services, where a client engages multiple brokers to service different portions of the client's account. in addition, third party capital providers have entered the insurance and reinsurance risk transfer market offering products and capital directly to our clients that serve as substitutes for traditional insurance. in our consulting segment, we compete for business with numerous consulting firms and similar organizations, many of whom also provide, or are affiliated with firms that provide, accounting, information systems, technology and financial services. such competitors may be able to offer more comprehensive products and services to potential clients, which may give them a competitive advantage. consolidation in the industries we serve could adversely affect our business. companies in the industries that we serve may seek to achieve economies of scale and other synergies by combining with or acquiring other companies. if two or more of our current clients merge, or consolidate or combine their operations, it may decrease the amount of work that we perform for these clients. if one of our current clients merges or consolidates with a company that relies on another provider for its services, we may lose work from that client or lose the opportunity to gain additional work. any of these or similar possible results of industry consolidation could adversely affect our business. the insurance industry continued to see robust market consolidation in 2018, and this trend could continue or accelerate in 2019. as insurance and reinsurance companies continue to consolidate, guy carpenter's smaller client base may be more susceptible to this risk given the limited number of insurance company clients and reinsurers in the marketplace. we rely on a large number of vendors and other third parties to perform key functions of our business operations and to provide services to our clients. these vendors and third parties may act in ways that could harm our business. we rely on a large number of vendors and other third parties, and in some cases subcontractors, to provide services, data and information such as technology, information security, funds transfers, business process management, and administration and support functions that are critical to the operations of our business. these third parties include correspondents, agents and other brokers and intermediaries, insurance markets, data providers, plan trustees, payroll service providers, software and system vendors, health plan providers, investment managers, risk modeling providers, outsourced providers of client- 19 related services and providers of human resource functions, such as recruiters. as we do not fully control the actions of these third parties, we are subject to the risk that their decisions or operations may adversely impact us and replacing these service providers could create significant delay and expense. a failure by the third parties to comply with service level agreements, or regulatory or legal requirements in a high quality and timely manner, particularly during periods of our peak demand for their services, could result in economic and reputational harm to us. in addition, these third parties face their own technology, operating, business and economic risks, and any significant failures by them, including the improper use or disclosure of our confidential client, employee, or company information or failure to comply with applicable law, could cause harm to our reputation or otherwise expose us to liability. an interruption in or the cessation of service by any service provider as a result of systems failures, capacity constraints, financial difficulties or for any other reason could disrupt our operations, impact our ability to offer certain products and services, and result in contractual or regulatory penalties, liability claims from clients or employees, damage to our reputation and harm to our business. business resiliency risks our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity or data recovery problem could cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. if we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity event, such as an earthquake, hurricane, flood, terrorist attack, pandemic, security breach, cyber-attack, power loss or telecommunications failure, our ability to operate will depend, in part, on the continued availability of our personnel, our office facilities and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. in such an event, we could experience operational challenges that could have a material adverse effect on our business. the risk of business disruption is more pronounced in certain geographic areas, including major metropolitan centers, like new york or london, where we have significant operations and approximately 3,500 colleagues in each location, and in certain countries and regions in which we operate that are subject to higher potential threat of terrorist attacks or military conflicts. our operations depend in particular upon our ability to protect our technology infrastructure against damage. if a business continuity event occurs, we could lose client or company data or experience interruptions to our operations or delivery of services to our clients, which could have a material adverse effect. a cyber-attack or other business continuity event affecting us or a key vendor or other third party could result in a significant and extended disruption in the functioning of our information technology systems or operations or our ability to recover data, requiring us to incur significant expense to address and remediate or otherwise resolve such issues. for example, hackers have increasingly targeted companies by attacking internet-connected industrial control and safety control systems. an extended outage could result in the loss of clients and a decline in our revenues. we regularly assess and take steps to improve our existing business continuity, disaster recovery and data recovery plans and key management succession. however, a disaster or other continuity event on a significant scale or affecting certain of our key operating areas within or across regions, or our inability to successfully recover from such an event, could materially interrupt our business operations and result in material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, damaged client relationships and legal liability. our business disruption insurance may also not fully cover, in type or amount, the cost of a successful recovery in the event of such a disruption. financial risks the ongoing effects from the 2017 tax cuts and jobs act could make our results difficult to predict. our effective tax rate may fluctuate in the future as a result of the 2017 tax cuts and jobs act (the "tcja"), which included significant changes in u.s. income tax law that has a meaningful impact on our provision for income taxes and requires significant judgments and estimates in interpretation and calculations. we made reasonable estimates of the effects of the deemed repatriation of earnings and other transitional provisions and recorded provisional amounts in our financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2017. the provisional estimates were trued up during 2018 pursuant to sab 118. however, these estimates and the ongoing impact of the tcja are based on our current knowledge and 20 assumptions, and therefore the ultimate impacts remain uncertain. given the significant complexity of the tcja, the potential for new legislation or additional guidance from u.s. treasury, the securities and exchange commission, the financial accounting standards board or other regulatory authorities related to the tcja, recognized impacts in future periods could be significantly different from our current estimates. such uncertainty may also result in increased scrutiny from, or disagreements with, tax authorities. the enacted tax legislation included, among other new provisions, a reduction in the corporate tax rate, new limitations on the deductibility of net interest, a tax on global intangible low-taxed income ("gilti"), and the base erosion and anti-abuse tax ("beat"). with respect to gilti, we are experiencing relatively high effective tax rates on our foreign source earnings because of the limitation on foreign tax credits on income already subject to tax rates higher than the u.s. rate. the provision continues to be subject to additional regulatory guidance and possible legislative changes, which make predicting its impact on our tax rate difficult. in addition, the interaction of gilti with the interest expense limitations may negatively impact our effective tax rate. in addition, due to potential revisions to regulations issued by the u.s. treasury, or other legal or regulatory changes, it cannot be certain that we will not be subject to the beat. the beat levies a significant tax on cross border payments to related group companies. while we operate in a manner that currently limits our exposure to beat, uncertainty about the financial impact on us of this new tax remains and there can be no assurance that we will not be subject to material amounts of beat in the future. our results of operations could be adversely affected by macroeconomic conditions, political events and market conditions. macroeconomic conditions, political events and other market conditions around the world affect our clients' businesses and the markets they serve. these conditions may reduce demand for our services or depress pricing for those services, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. changes in macroeconomic and political conditions could also shift demand to services for which we do not have a competitive advantage, and this could negatively affect the amount of business that we are able to obtain. the united kingdom's pending exit from the european union, referred to as "brexit," continues to create political and economic uncertainty, particularly in the united kingdom and the european union. the uncertainty surrounding the implementation and effect of brexit may cause increased economic volatility, affecting our operations and business. the effects of brexit will depend on any agreements the u.k. makes to retain access to european union markets either during a transitional period or more permanently. the measures could potentially disrupt the markets we serve and may cause us to lose clients and colleagues. in addition, brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the u.k. determines which european union laws to replace or replicate. these developments may have a material adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of financial markets, both in the u.k. and globally. any of these factors could affect the demand for our services. furthermore, currency exchange rates in gbp and the euro with respect to each other and the u.s. dollar have already been adversely affected by these developments. should this foreign exchange volatility continue, it could cause volatility in our quarterly financial results. in addition, any changes in u.s. trade policy could trigger retaliatory actions by affected countries, resulting in trade wars, which could affect volume of economic activity in the united states, including demand for our services. our investments, including our minority investments in other companies as well as our cash investments and those held in a fiduciary capacity, are subject to general credit, liquidity, counterparty, foreign exchange, market and interest rate risks. these risks may be exacerbated by global macroeconomic conditions, market volatility and regulatory, financial and other difficulties affecting the companies in which we have invested or that may be faced by financial institution counterparties. during times of stress in the banking industry, counterparty risk can quickly escalate, potentially resulting in substantial trading and investment losses for corporate and other investors. in addition, we may incur investment losses as a result of unusual and unpredictable market developments, and we may continue to experience reduced investment earnings if the yields on investments deemed to be low risk remain at or near their current low levels. if the banking system or the fixed income, interest rate, credit or equity markets deteriorate, the 21 value and liquidity of our investments could be adversely affected. finally, the value of the company's assets held in other jurisdictions, including cash holdings, may decline due to foreign exchange fluctuations. if we are unable to collect our receivables, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. our business depends on our ability to obtain payment from our clients of the amounts they owe us for the work we perform. as of december 31, 2018, our receivables for our commissions and fees were approximately $4.0 billion , or approximately one-quarter of our total annual revenues, and portions of our receivables are increasingly concentrated in certain businesses and geographies. macroeconomic or political conditions could result in financial difficulties for our clients, which could cause clients to delay payments to us, request modifications to their payment arrangements that could increase our receivables balance or default on their payment obligations to us. we may not be able to obtain sufficient financing on favorable terms. the maintenance and growth of our business, the payment of dividends and our ability to make share repurchases rely on our access to capital, which depends in large part on cash flow generated by our business and the availability of equity and debt financing. certain of our businesses such as gc securities, a division of mmc securities, llc and mmc securities (europe) limited also rely on financings by us to fund their underwriting of debt and equity capital raising offerings by their clients. there can be no assurance that our operations will generate sufficient positive cash flow to finance all of our capital needs or that we will be able to obtain equity or debt financing on favorable terms. in addition, our ability to obtain financing will depend in part upon prevailing conditions in credit and capital markets, which are beyond our control. our defined benefit pension plan obligations could cause the company's financial position, earnings and cash flows to fluctuate. our defined benefit pension obligations and the assets set aside to fund those obligations are sensitive to certain changes in the financial markets. any such changes may result in increased pension expense or additional cash payments to fund these plans. the company has significant defined benefit pension obligations to its current and former employees, totaling approximately $14.5 billion , and related plan assets of approximately $14.4 billion , at december 31, 2018 on a u.s. gaap basis. the company's policy for funding its defined benefit pension plans is to contribute amounts at least sufficient to meet the funding requirements set forth by law. in the united states, contributions to these plans are based on erisa guidelines. outside the united states, contributions are generally based on statutory requirements and local funding practices, which may differ from measurements under u.s. gaap. in the u.k., for example, the assumptions used to determine pension contributions are the result of legally-prescribed negotiations between the company and the plans' trustee. currently, the use of these assumptions results in a lower funded status than determined under u.s. gaap and may result in contributions irrespective of the u.s. gaap funded status. the financial calculations relating to our defined benefit pension plans are complex. pension plan assets could decrease as the result of poor future asset performance. also, pension plan liabilities, periodic pension expense and future funding amounts could increase as a result of a decline in the interest rates we use to discount our pension liabilities, longer lifespans than those reflected in our mortality assumptions, changes in investment markets that result in lower expected returns on assets, actual investment return that is less than the expected return on assets, adverse changes in laws or regulations and other variables. while we have taken steps to mitigate the impact of pension volatility on our earnings and cash funding requirements, these strategies may not be successful. accordingly, given the magnitude of our worldwide pension plans, variations in or reassessment of the preceding or other factors or potential miscalculations relating to our defined benefit pension plans could cause significant fluctuation from year to year in our earnings and cash flow, as well as our pension plan assets, liabilities and equity, and may result in increased levels of contributions to our pension plans. 22 our significant non-u.s. operations expose us to exchange rate fluctuations and various risks that could impact our business. approximately 52% of our business is located outside of the united states. we are subject to exchange rate movement because we must translate the financial results of our foreign subsidiaries into u.s. dollars and also because some of our subsidiaries receive revenue other than in their functional currencies. exchange rate movements may change over time, and they could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows reported in u.s. dollars. our u.s. operations earn revenue and incur expenses primarily in u.s. dollars. in certain jurisdictions, however, while risk and insurance services operations generate revenue in a number of different currencies, expenses are almost entirely incurred in local currency. due to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, we are subject to economic exposure as well as currency translation exposure on the net operating results of our operations. because the non-u.s. based revenue that is exposed to foreign exchange fluctuations is approximately 52% of total revenue, exchange rate movement can have a significant impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. for additional discussion, see "market risk and credit risk-foreign currency risk" in part ii, item 7a ("quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk") of this report. the purchase price of the jlt transaction is denominated in gbp. to hedge the risk of appreciation in gbp, we entered into a deal contingent foreign exchange contract ("fx contract"), which is discussed in note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. for each 1% increase or decrease in the gbp/u.s. dollar exchange rate, the fair value of the fx contract will increase (dollar weakens) or decrease (dollar strengthens) by approximately $70 million. as of december 31, 2018, the gbp had depreciated 3.4% since we entered into the fx contract in september 2018. furthermore, and as noted above, the unknown impacts of brexit may expose us to additional exchange rate fluctuations in gbp. we expect to record fair value gains or losses, which may be significant, through the consolidated statement of income until the closing of the jlt transaction. we may not be able to receive dividends or other distributions in needed amounts from our subsidiaries. the company is organized as a legal entity separate and distinct from our operating subsidiaries. because we do not have significant operations of our own, we are dependent upon dividends and other payments from our operating subsidiaries to meet our obligations for paying principal and interest on outstanding debt obligations, paying dividends to stockholders, repurchasing our common stock under our share repurchase program and paying corporate expenses. in the event our operating subsidiaries are unable to pay sufficient dividends and make other payments to the company, we may not be able to service our debt, pay dividends on or repurchase our common stock or meet our other obligations. further, the company derives a significant portion of its revenue and operating profit from operating subsidiaries located outside the united states. funds from the current year's earnings of the company's non-u.s. operating subsidiaries are regularly repatriated to the united states. a number of factors could arise that could limit our ability to repatriate funds or could make repatriation cost-prohibitive, including, but not limited to, the imposition of currency controls and other government restrictions on repatriation in the jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and the imposition of withholding and other taxes on such payments. in the event we are unable to generate or repatriate cash from our operating subsidiaries, our overall liquidity could deteriorate and our ability to finance our obligations, including to pay dividends on or repurchase our common stock, could be adversely affected. our quarterly revenues and profitability may fluctuate significantly. quarterly variations in revenues and operating results may occur due to several factors. these include: the number of client engagements during a quarter; the possibility that clients may decide to delay or terminate a current or anticipated project as a result of factors unrelated to our work product or progress; fluctuations in hiring and utilization rates and clients' ability to terminate engagements without penalty; 23 the impact of changes in accounting standards or in our accounting estimates or assumptions, including from the adoption of the revenue recognition, pension or lease accounting standards; the impact of fair value changes in the fx contract for the jlt transaction; the impact on us or our clients of changes in legislation, regulation and legal guidance or interpretations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including with respect to the tcja; seasonality due to the impact of regulatory deadlines, policy renewals and other timing factors to which our clients are subject; the success of our acquisitions or investments; macroeconomic factors such as changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and global securities markets, particularly in the case of mercer, where fees in its investments business and certain other business lines are derived from the value of assets under management or administration; and general economic conditions, including factors beyond our control affecting economic conditions such as severe weather or other catastrophic events, since results of operations are directly affected by the levels of business activity of our clients, which in turn are affected by the level of economic activity in the industries and markets that they serve. a significant portion of our total operating expenses is relatively fixed in the short term. therefore, a variation in the number of client assignments or in the timing of the initiation or the completion of client assignments can cause significant variations in quarterly operating results for these businesses. credit rating downgrades would increase our financing costs and could subject us to operational risk. currently, the company's senior debt is rated a- by s&amp;p and baa1 by moody's. the ratings from both s&amp;p and moody's currently carry a negative outlook. if we need to raise capital in the future (for example, in order to fund maturing debt obligations or finance acquisitions or other initiatives), credit rating downgrades would increase our financing costs, and could limit our access to financing sources. further, a downgrade to a rating below investment-grade could result in greater operational risks through increased operating costs and increased competitive pressures. we have debt outstanding that could adversely affect our financial flexibility. we have incurred significant debt in order to finance the jlt transaction. as of december 31, 2018, we had total consolidated debt outstanding of approximately $5.8 billion . in january 2019, we issued $5 billion aggregate amount of senior notes to finance, in part, the jlt transaction. we expect to incur additional debt before the closing of the jlt transaction in order to finance the remaining purchase price. the level of debt outstanding could adversely affect our financial flexibility by reducing our ability to use cash from operations for other purposes, including working capital, dividends to shareholders, share repurchases, acquisitions, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes. in addition, we are subject to risks that, at the time any of our outstanding debt matures, we will not be able to retire or refinance the debt on terms that are acceptable to us. we also face the risk of a credit rating downgrade if we do not retire or refinance the debt to levels acceptable to the credit rating agencies in a timely manner. global operations we are exposed to multiple risks associated with the global nature of our operations. we conduct business globally. in 2018, approximately 52% of the company's total revenue was generated from operations outside the united states, and over one-half of our employees were located outside the united states. we expect to expand our non-u.s. operations further. in particular, the jlt transaction will significantly expand our non-u.s. operations in jurisdictions such as the u.k., asia, south america and australia upon close. 24 the geographic breadth of our activities (and the activities of jlt upon the consummation of the jlt transaction) subjects us to significant legal, economic, operational, market, compliance and reputational risks. these include, among others, risks relating to: economic and political conditions in the countries in which we operate; client concentration in certain high-growth countries in which we operate; the length of payment cycles and potential difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; unexpected increases in taxes or changes in u.s. or foreign tax laws, rulings, policies or related legal and regulatory interpretations, including recent international initiatives to require multinational enterprises, like ours, to report profitability on a country-by-country basis, which could increase scrutiny by, or cause disagreements with, foreign tax authorities; potential transfer pricing-related tax exposures that may result from the flow of funds among our subsidiaries and affiliates in the various jurisdictions in which we operate; withholding or other taxes that foreign governments may impose on the payment of dividends or other remittances to us from our non-u.s. subsidiaries; potential conflicts of interest that may arise as we expand the scope of our businesses and our client base; international hostilities, international trade disputes, terrorist activities, natural disasters and infrastructure disruptions; local investment or other financial restrictions that foreign governments may impose; potential lawsuits, investigations, market studies, reviews or other activity by foreign regulatory or law enforcement authorities or legislatively appointed commissions, which may result in potential modifications to our businesses, related private litigation or increased scrutiny from u.s. or other regulators; potential costs and difficulties in complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations (including tax systems) administered by foreign government agencies, some of which may conflict with u.s. or other sources of law; potential costs and difficulties in complying, or monitoring compliance, with foreign and u.s. laws and regulations that are applicable to our operations abroad, including trade sanctions laws relating to countries such as cuba, iran, russia, sudan and syria and anti-corruption laws such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act 2010; limitations or restrictions that foreign or u.s. governments and regulators may impose on the products or services we sell, the methods by which we sell our products and services and the manner in which and the amounts we are compensated; limitations that foreign governments may impose on the conversion of currency or the payment of dividends or other remittances to us from our non-u.s. subsidiaries; engaging and relying on third parties to perform services on behalf of the company; and potential difficulties in monitoring employees in geographically dispersed locations. 25 risks relating to our risk and insurance services segment our risk and insurance services segment, conducted through marsh and guy carpenter, represented 55% of the company's total revenue in 2018. our business in this segment is subject to particular risks. results in our risk and insurance services segment may be adversely affected by a general decline in economic activity. demand for many types of insurance and reinsurance generally rises or falls as economic growth expands or slows. this dynamic affects the level of commissions and fees generated by marsh and guy carpenter. to the extent our clients become adversely affected by declining business conditions, they may choose to limit their purchases of insurance and reinsurance coverage, as applicable, which would inhibit our ability to generate commission revenue and other revenue based on premiums placed by us. also, the insurance they seek to obtain through us may be impacted by changes in their assets, property values, sales or number of employees, which may reduce our commission revenue, and they may decide not to purchase our risk advisory or other services, which would inhibit our ability to generate fee revenue. moreover, insolvencies and combinations associated with an economic downturn, especially insolvencies and combinations in the insurance industry, could adversely affect our brokerage business through the loss of clients or by limiting our ability to place insurance and reinsurance business, as well as our revenues from insurers. guy carpenter is especially susceptible to this risk given the limited number of insurance company clients and reinsurers in the marketplace. volatility or declines in premiums and other market trends may significantly impede our ability to grow revenues and profitability. a significant portion of our risk and insurance services revenue consists of commissions paid to us out of the premiums that insurers and reinsurers charge our clients for coverage. we do not determine the insurance premiums on which our commissions are generally based. our revenues and profitability are subject to change to the extent that premium rates fluctuate or trend in a particular direction. the potential for changes in premium rates is significant, due to the normal cycles of pricing in the commercial insurance and reinsurance markets. as traditional insurance companies continue to rely on non-affiliated brokers or agents to generate premium, those insurance companies may seek to reduce their expenses by lowering their commission rates. the reduction of these commission rates, along with general volatility or declines in premiums, may significantly affect our revenue and profitability. because we do not determine the timing or extent of premium pricing changes, it is difficult to accurately forecast our commission revenues, including whether they will significantly decline. as a result, we may have to adjust our plans for future acquisitions, capital expenditures, dividend payments, loan repayments and other expenditures to account for unexpected changes in revenues, and any decreases in premium rates may adversely affect the results of our operations. in addition to movements in premium rates, our ability to generate premium-based commission revenue may be challenged by disintermediation and the growing availability of alternative methods for clients to meet their risk-protection needs. this trend includes a greater willingness on the part of corporations to self-insure, the use of captive insurers, and the presence of capital markets-based solutions for traditional insurance and reinsurance needs. further, the profitability of our risk and insurances services segment depends in part on our ability to be compensated for the analytical services and other advice that we provide, including the consulting and analytics services that we provide to insurers. if we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate billing rates for all of our services, our margins and profitability could decline. adverse legal developments and future regulations concerning how intermediaries are compensated by insurers or clients, as well as allegations of anti-competitive behavior or conflicts of interest more broadly, could have a material adverse effect on marsh's business, results of operations and financial condition. the ways in which insurance intermediaries are compensated receive scrutiny from regulators in part because of the potential for anti-competitive behavior and conflicts of interest. the vast majority of the compensation that marsh receives is in the form of retail fees and commissions that are paid by the client or paid from premium that is paid by the client. the amount of other compensation that we receive from 26 insurance companies, separate from retail fees and commissions, has increased in the last several years, both on an underlying basis and through acquisition. this other compensation includes payment for (i) consulting and analytics services provided to insurers; (ii) administrative and other services provided to insurers (including services relating to the administration and management of quota shares, lineslips, panels and other facilities); and (iii) contingent commissions (paid by insurers based on factors such as volume or profitability of marsh's placements). these other revenue streams present potential regulatory, litigation and reputational risks that may arise from alleged anti-competitive behavior or conflicts of interest, and future changes in the regulatory environment may impact our ability to collect such revenue. adverse regulatory, legal or other developments could have a material adverse effect on our business and expose the company to negative publicity and reputational harm. risks relating to our consulting segment our consulting segment, conducted through mercer and oliver wyman group, represented 45% of our total revenue in 2018. our businesses in this segment are subject to particular risks. mercer's investment management and related services (ims) business is subject to a number of risks, including risks related to third-party investment managers, operational risk, conflicts of interest, asset performance and regulatory compliance, that, if realized, could result in significant damage to our business. mercer's ims business provides clients with investment consulting and investment management (also referred to as "delegated solutions" or "fiduciary management") services. in the investment consulting business, clients make and implement their own investment decisions based upon advice provided by mercer. in its delegated solutions business, mercer implements the client's investment policy by engaging and overseeing third-party asset managers who determine which investments to buy and sell. to effect implementation of a client's investment policy, mercer may utilize its "manager of managers" investment funds. mercer's ims business is subject to a number of risks, including risks related to third-parties, our operations, conflicts of interest, asset performance and regulatory compliance and scrutiny, which could arise in connection with these offerings. for example, mercer's due diligence on an asset manager may fail to uncover material deficiencies or fraud that could result in investment losses to a client. there is a risk that mercer will fail to properly implement a client's investment policy, which could cause an incorrect or untimely allocation of client assets among asset managers or strategies. mercer may also be perceived as recommending certain asset managers to clients, or offering delegated solutions to an investment consulting client, solely to enhance its own compensation. asset classes may perform poorly, or asset managers may underperform their benchmarks, due to poor market performance, a downturn in the global equity markets, negligence or other reasons, resulting in poor returns or loss of client capital. these risks, if realized, could result in significant liability and damage our business. revenues for the services provided by our consulting segment may decline for various reasons, including as a result of changes in economic conditions, the value of equity, debt and other asset markets, our clients' or an industry's financial condition or government regulation or an accelerated trend away from actively managed investments to passively managed investments. global economic conditions may negatively impact businesses and financial institutions. many of our clients, including financial institutions, corporations, government entities and pension plans, have reduced expenses, including amounts spent on consulting services, and used internal resources instead of consultants during difficult economic periods. the evolving needs and financial circumstances of our clients may reduce demand for our consulting services and could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. if the economy or markets in which we operate experience weakness or deteriorate, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, some of mercer's ims business generate fees based upon the value of the clients' assets under management or advisement. changes in the value of equity, debt, currency, real estate, commodities or other asset classes could cause the value of assets under management or advisement, and the fees received by mercer, to decline. such changes could also cause clients to withdraw funds from mercer's ims business in favor of other investment service providers. in either case, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. mercer's ims business also could be adversely affected by an accelerated shift away from actively managed 27 investments to passively managed investments with associated lower fees. further, revenue received by mercer as investment manager to the majority of the mercer-managed investment funds is reported in accordance with u.s. gaap on a gross basis rather than a net basis, with sub-advisor fees reflected as an expense. therefore the reported revenue for these offerings does not fully reflect the amount of net revenue ultimately attributable to mercer. demand for many of mercer's benefits services is affected by government regulation and tax laws, rulings, policies and interpretations, which drive our clients' needs for benefits-related services. significant changes in government regulations affecting the value, use or delivery of benefits and human resources programs, including changes in regulations relating to health and welfare plans, defined contribution plans or defined benefit plans, may adversely affect the demand for or profitability of mercer's services. factors affecting defined benefit pension plans and the services we provide relating to those plans could adversely affect mercer. mercer currently provides corporate trustees, multi-employer and public clients with actuarial, consulting and administration services relating to defined benefit pension plans. the nature of our work is complex. a number of mercer's clients have frozen or curtailed their defined benefit plans and have moved to defined contribution plans resulting in reduced revenue for mercer's retirement business. these developments and a continued or accelerated rate of decline in revenues for our defined benefit pension plans business could adversely affect mercer's business and operating results. in addition, our actuarial services involve numerous assumptions and estimates regarding future events, including interest rates used to discount future liabilities, estimated rates of return for a plan's assets, healthcare cost trends, salary projections and participants' life expectancies. our consulting services involve the drafting and interpretation of trust deeds and other complex documentation governing pension plans. our administration services include calculating benefits within complicated pension plan structures. clients dissatisfied with our services have brought, and may bring, significant claims against us, particularly in the united states and the united kingdom. the profitability of our consulting segment may decline if we are unable to achieve or maintain adequate utilization and pricing rates for our consultants. the profitability of our consulting businesses depends in part on ensuring that our consultants maintain adequate utilization rates (i.e., the percentage of our consultants' working hours devoted to billable activities). our utilization rates are affected by a number of factors, including: our ability to transition consultants promptly from completed projects to new assignments, and to engage newly-hired consultants quickly in revenue-generating activities; our ability to continually secure new business engagements, particularly because a portion of our work is project-based rather than recurring in nature; our ability to forecast demand for our services and thereby maintain appropriate headcount in each of our geographies and workforces; our ability to manage attrition; unanticipated changes in the scope of client engagements; the potential for conflicts of interest that might require us to decline client engagements that we otherwise would have accepted; our need to devote time and resources to sales, training, professional development and other non-billable activities; the potential disruptive impact of acquisitions and dispositions; and general economic conditions. if the utilization rate for our consulting professionals declines, our profit margin and profitability could decline. in addition, the profitability of our consulting businesses depends in part on the prices we are able to charge for our services. the prices we charge are affected by a number of factors, including: clients' perception of our ability to add value through our services; market demand for the services we provide; 28 our ability to develop new services and the introduction of new services by competitors; the pricing policies of our competitors; the extent to which our clients develop in-house or other capabilities to perform the services that they might otherwise purchase from us; and general economic conditions. if we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate billing rates for our services, our profit margin and profitability could decline. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk and credit risk certain of the company's revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and equity markets. interest rate risk and credit risk interest income generated from the company's cash investments as well as invested fiduciary funds will vary with the general level of interest rates. the company had the following investments subject to variable interest rates: (in millions of dollars) december 31, 2018 cash and cash equivalents invested in money market funds, certificates of deposit and time deposits $ 1,066 fiduciary cash and investments $ 5,001 based on the above balances, if short-term interest rates increased or decreased by 10%, or 15 basis points, over the full year, annual interest income, including interest earned on fiduciary funds, would increase or decrease by approximately $6 million. in addition to interest rate risk, our cash investments and fiduciary fund investments are subject to potential loss of value due to counter-party credit risk. to minimize this risk, the company and its subsidiaries invest pursuant to a board approved investment policy. the policy mandates the preservation of principal and liquidity and requires broad diversification with counter-party limits assigned based primarily on credit rating and type of investment. the company carefully monitors its cash and fiduciary fund investments and will further restrict the portfolio as appropriate to market conditions. the majority of cash and fiduciary fund investments are invested in short-term bank deposits and liquid money market funds. foreign currency risk the translated values of revenue and expense from the company's international operations are subject to fluctuations due to changes in currency exchange rates. the non-u.s. based revenue that is exposed to foreign exchange fluctuations is approximately 52% of total revenue. we periodically use forward contracts and options to limit foreign currency exchange rate exposure on net income and cash flows for specific, clearly defined transactions arising in the ordinary course of business. although the company has significant revenue generated in foreign locations which is subject to foreign exchange rate fluctuations, in most cases both the foreign currency revenue and expenses are in the functional currency of the foreign location. as such, under normal circumstances, the u.s. dollar translation of both the revenues and expenses, as well as the potentially offsetting movements of various currencies against the u.s. dollar, generally tends to mitigate the impact on net operating income of foreign currency risk. however, there have been periods where the impact was not mitigated due to external market factors, and external macroeconomic events, such as uncertainty regarding the impact of "brexit" in the united kingdom, may result in greater foreign exchange rate fluctuations in the future. if foreign exchange rates of major currencies (euro, sterling, australian dollar and canadian dollar) moved 10% in the same direction against the u.s. dollar compared with the foreign exchange rates in 2018 , the company estimates net operating income would increase or decrease by approximately $56 million. the company has exposure to approximately 80 foreign currencies overall. in continental europe, the largest amount of revenue from renewals for the risk &amp; insurance services segment occurs in the first quarter. jlt transaction the purchase price of the jlt transaction is denominated in gbp. to hedge the risk of appreciation in gbp, the company entered into an fx contract in september 2018, which is discussed in note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. for each 1% increase or decrease in the gbp/u.s. dollar exchange rate, the fair value of the fx contract will increase (dollar weakens) or decrease (dollar strengthens) by approximately $70 million. 54 equity price risk as discussed in note 18 to the consolidated financial statements, effective january 1, 2018, the company adopted a new accounting standard that requires equity investments with readily determinable market values to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income. the company holds investments in both public and private companies as well as private equity funds, including investments of approximately $146 million that are valued using readily determinable fair values and approximately $75 million of investments without readily determinable fair values. the company also has investments of approximately $287 million that are accounted for using the equity method, including the company's investment in alexander forbes. the investments are subject to risk of decline in market value, which, if determined to be other than temporary for assets without readily determinable fair values, could result in realized impairment losses. the company periodically reviews the carrying value of such investments to determine if any valuation adjustments are appropriate under the applicable accounting pronouncements. the company owns approximately 33% of the common stock of alexander forbes, a south african company listed on the johannesburg stock exchange, which it purchased in 2014 for 7.50 south african rand per share. the shares of af have been trading below the company's carrying value since november of 2017, but had traded within 10% of the company's carrying value through much of the first quarter of 2018. in may 2018, the trading price declined to 30% to 35% below the company's cost and remained at the discounted level through the third quarter of 2018. the company considered several factors in assessing the carrying value of its investment in af, including its financial position, the near- and long-term prospects of af and the broader south african economy and capital markets, the length of time and extent to which the market value was below cost and the company's intent and ability to retain the investment for a sufficient period of time to allow for anticipated recovery in market value. however, based on the duration of time and the extent to which the shares traded below their cost, the company could not develop sufficient objective evidence to support a recovery of the price in the relatively near future. as such, the company concluded the decline in value of the investment was other than temporary and recorded a charge of $ 83 million in 2018. as of december 31, 2018 , the carrying value of the company's investment in alexander forbes was approximately $144 million . as of december 31, 2018 , the market value of the approximately 443 million shares of alexander forbes owned by the company, based on the december 31, 2018 closing share price of 5.14 south african rand per share, was approximately $159 million . other a number of lawsuits and regulatory proceedings are pending. see note 16 ("claims, lawsuits and other contingencies") to the consolidated financial statements included in this report. 55risk factors you should consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information presented in this report. these risks have the potential to materially adversely affect the company's business, results of operations or financial condition. risks relating to the company generally technology, cybersecurity and data protection risks our business performance and growth plans could be negatively affected if we are not able to develop and implement improvements in technology or respond effectively to the threat of digital disruption and other technological change. we depend in large part on our technology systems for conducting business, as well as for providing the data and analytics we utilize to manage our business. as a result, our business success is dependent on maintaining the effectiveness of existing technology systems and on continuing to develop and enhance technology systems that support our business processes and strategic initiatives in a cost and resource efficient manner, particularly as our business processes become more digital. we have a number of strategic initiatives involving investments in or partnerships with technology companies as well as investments in technology systems and infrastructure to support our growth strategy. these investments may be costly and require significant capital expenditures, may not be profitable or may be less profitable than what we have experienced historically. in addition, investments in technology systems may not deliver the benefits or perform as expected, or may be replaced or become obsolete more quickly than expected, which could result in operational difficulties or additional costs. in some cases, we also depend on key vendors and partners to provide technology and other support for our strategic initiatives. if these vendors or partners fail to perform their obligations or otherwise cease to work with us, our ability to execute on our strategic initiatives could be adversely affected. if we do not keep up with technological changes or execute effectively on our strategic initiatives, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted. in addition, to remain competitive in many of our business areas, we must anticipate and respond effectively to the threat of digital disruption and other technological change. the threat comes from traditional players, such as insurers, through disintermediation as well as from new entrants, such as technology companies, "insurtech" start-up companies and others. these players are focused on using technology and innovation, including artificial intelligence (ai), digital platforms, data analytics, robotics and blockchain, to simplify and improve the client experience, increase efficiencies, alter business models and effect other potentially disruptive changes in the industries in which we operate. we could incur significant liability or our reputation could be damaged if our information systems are breached or we otherwise fail to protect client or company data or information systems. in operating our business and providing services and solutions to clients, we collect, use, store, transmit and otherwise process certain electronic information, including personal, confidential, proprietary and sensitive data such as information related to financial records, health care, mergers and acquisitions and personal data of our clients, colleagues and vendors. we rely on the efficient, uninterrupted and secure operation of complex information technology systems and networks to operate our business and securely process, transmit and store electronic information. in the normal course of business, we also share electronic information with our vendors and other third parties. this electronic information comprises sensitive and confidential data, including information related to financial records, health care, mergers and acquisitions and clients' personal data. our information technology systems and safety control systems, and those of our numerous third-party providers, as well as the control systems of critical infrastructure they rely on, such as power grids, are potentially vulnerable to unauthorized access, damage or interruption from a variety of external threats, including cyberattacks, computer viruses and other malware, ransomware and other types of data and systems-related modes of attack. our systems are also subject to compromise from internal threats such as improper action by employees, vendors and other third parties with otherwise legitimate access to our systems. moreover, we face the ongoing challenge of managing access controls in a complex environment. the latency of a compromise is often measured in months but could be years, and we may not be able to detect a compromise in a timely manner. we could experience significant financial and reputational harm if our information systems are breached, sensitive client or company data are compromised, surreptitiously modified, rendered 12 inaccessible for any period of time or maliciously made public, or if we fail to make adequate or timely disclosures to the public or law enforcement agencies following any such event, whether due to delayed discovery or a failure to follow existing protocols. cyberattacks are increasing in frequency and evolving in nature. we are at risk of attack by a variety of adversaries, including state-sponsored organizations, organized crime, hackers or "hactivists" (activist hackers), through use of increasingly sophisticated methods of attack, including the deployment of artificial intelligence to find and exploit vulnerabilities, such as deep fakes , and long-term, persistent attacks referred to as advanced persistent threats. these techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems include, among other things, computer viruses, malicious or destructive code, ransomware, social engineering attacks (including phishing and impersonation), hacking and denial-of-service attacks. because these techniques change frequently and new techniques may not be identified until they are launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures, resulting in potential data loss, data unavailability, data corruption or other damage to information technology systems. as the breadth and complexity of the technologies we use and the software and platforms we develop continue to grow, including as a result of the use of mobile devices, cloud services, "open source" software, social media and the increased reliance on devices connected to the internet (known as the "internet of things"), the potential risk of security breaches and cyber-attacks also increases. despite ongoing efforts to improve our ability to protect data from compromise, we may not be able to protect all of our data across our diverse systems. our efforts to improve and protect data from compromise may also identify previously undiscovered instances of security breaches or other cyber incidents. our policies, employee training (including phishing prevention training), procedures and technical safeguards may also be insufficient to prevent or detect improper access to confidential, personal or proprietary information. in addition, the competition for talent in the data privacy and cybersecurity space is intense, and we may also be unable to hire, develop or retain suitable talent capable of adequately detecting, mitigating or remediating these risks. should an attacker gain access to our network using compromised credentials of an authorized user, we are at risk that the attacker might successfully leverage that access to compromise additional systems and data. certain measures that could increase the security of our systems, such as data encryption (including encryption of data at rest), heightened monitoring and logging, scanning for source code errors or deployment of multi-factor authentication, take significant time and resources to deploy broadly, and such measures may not be deployed in a timely manner or be effective against an attack. the inability to implement, maintain and upgrade adequate safeguards could have a material adverse effect on our business. our information systems must be continually updated, patched, and upgraded to protect against known vulnerabilities. the volume of new software vulnerabilities has increased markedly, as has the criticality of patches and other remedial measures, including those in the existing jlt information systems. in addition to remediating newly identified vulnerabilities, previously identified vulnerabilities must also be continuously addressed. accordingly, we are at risk that cyberattackers exploit these known vulnerabilities before they have been communicated by vendors or addressed. due to the large number and age of the systems and platforms that we operate, the increased frequency at which vendors are issuing security patches to their products, the need to test patches and, in some cases coordinate with clients and vendors, before they can be deployed, we perpetually face the substantial risk that we cannot deploy patches in a timely manner. we are also dependent on third party vendors to keep their systems patched and secure in order to protect our data. any failure related to these activities could have a material adverse effect on our business. we have numerous vendors and other third parties who receive personal information from us in connection with the services we offer our clients. in addition, we have migrated certain data, and may increasingly migrate data, to the cloud hosted by third-party providers. some of these vendors and third parties also have direct access to our systems. we are at risk of a cyberattack involving a vendor or other third party, which could result in a breakdown of such third party's data protection processes or the cyberattackers gaining access to our infrastructure through the third party. to the extent that a vendor or third party suffers a cyberattack that compromises its operations, we could incur significant costs and possible service interruption, which could have an adverse effect on our business. 13 we have a history of making acquisitions and investments, and in april 2019 we completed the acquisition of jlt. the process of integrating the information systems of jlt and of such other businesses we acquire is complex and exposes us to additional risk. for instance, we may not adequately identify weaknesses and vulnerabilities in an acquired entity's information systems, either before or after the acquisition, which could affect the value we are able to derive from the acquisition, expose us to unexpected liabilities or make our own systems more vulnerable to a cyberattack. in addition, if we discover a historical compromise, security breach or other cyber incident related to the target's information systems following the close of the acquisition, we may be liable and exposed to significant costs and other unforeseen liabilities. we may also be unable to integrate the systems of the businesses we acquire into our environment in a timely manner, which could further increase these risks until such integration takes place. in the case of jlt, our integration of the information systems is ongoing, and given the size and complexity of the integration project, we remain exposed to these risks until the integration is complete. we have from time to time experienced data incidents and cybersecurity breaches, such as malware incursions (including computer viruses and ransomware), users exceeding their data access authorization, employee misconduct and incidents resulting from human error, such as loss of portable and other data storage devices or misconfiguration of software or hardware resulting in inadvertent exposure of personal, sensitive, confidential or proprietary information. like many companies, we are subject to social engineering attacks such as regular phishing email campaigns directed at our employees that can result in malware infections and data loss. although these incidents have resulted in data loss and other damages, to date, they have not had a material adverse effect on our business or operations. in the future, these types of incidents could result in personal, sensitive, confidential or proprietary information being lost or stolen, surreptitiously modified, rendered inaccessible for any period of time, or maliciously made public, including client, employee or company data, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. in the event of a cyberattack, we might have to take our systems offline, which could interfere with services to our clients or damage our reputation. we also may be unable to detect an incident, assess its severity or impact, or appropriately respond in a timely manner. in addition, our liability insurance, which includes cyber insurance, may not be sufficient in type or amount to cover us against claims related to security breaches, cyberattacks and other related data and system incidents. the costs to comply with, or our failure to comply with, u.s. and foreign laws related to privacy, data security and data protection, such as the e.u. general data protection regulation (gdpr) and the california consumer privacy act (ccpa), could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and our reputation. in operating our business and providing services and solutions to clients, we store and transfer sensitive employee and client data, including personal data, in and across multiple jurisdictions. we leverage systems and applications that are spread all over the world requiring us to regularly move data across national borders. as a result, we are subject to a variety of laws and regulations in the united states, europe and around the world regarding privacy, data protection, data security and cyber-security. these laws and regulations are continuously evolving and developing. some of these laws and regulations are increasing the level of data handling restrictions, including rules on data localization, all of which could affect our operations and result in regulatory liability and high fines. in particular, high-profile security breaches at major companies continue to be disclosed regularly, which is leading to even greater regulatory scrutiny and fines at the highest levels they have ever been. the scope and interpretation of the laws that are or may be applicable to us are often uncertain and may be conflicting. for example, the gdpr, which became effective in may 2018, greatly increased the european commission's jurisdictional reach of its laws and added a broad array of requirements for handling personal data, such as the public disclosure of data breaches, privacy impact assessments, data portability and the appointment of data protection officers in some cases. in the u.s., the ccpa came into effect in january 2019 and introduced several new concepts to local privacy requirements, including increased transparency and rights such as access and deletion and an ability to opt out of the sale of personal information. despite a proliferation of regulatory guidance papers, much remains unclear with respect to how to interpret and implement the gdpr and the ccpa, and that lack of clarity could result in potential liability for our failure to meet our obligations under the gdpr and the ccpa. given the breadth and depth of changes in data protection obligations, including classifying data and committing to a range 14 of administrative, technical and physical controls to protect data and enable data transfers outside of the e.u., our compliance with laws such as the gdpr and the ccpa will continue to require time, resources and review of the technology and systems we use. further, brexit has created uncertainty with regard to the future of the flow of personal information between the united kingdom and the e.u., and that uncertainty may impair our ability to offer our existing and planned products and services or increase our cost of doing business. following the implementation of the gdpr, other jurisdictions have sought to amend, or propose legislation to amend, their existing data protection laws to align with the requirements of the gdpr with the aim of obtaining an adequate level of data protection to facilitate the transfer of personal data to most jurisdictions from the e.u. accordingly, the challenges we face in the e.u. will likely also apply to other jurisdictions that adopt laws similar to the gdpr or regulatory frameworks of equivalent complexity. for example, brazil has enacted its general data protection law, the lei geral de prote o de dados pessoais, which is due to come into effect in august 2020, china has modified its law, india has a new draft privacy law and japan has adopted sweeping changes to its privacy law. in some cases, including china and india, the laws include data localization elements that will require that certain personal data stay within their borders. looking at the u.s. following the passage of the ccpa, multiple other states have introduced similar bills, some more comprehensive than the ccpa. there is also continued legislative interest in passing a federal privacy law. in addition to data protection laws, countries and states in the u.s. are enacting cybersecurity laws and regulations. for example, the new york state department of financial services issued in 2017 cybersecurity regulations which imposed an array of detailed security measures on covered entities. these requirements were phased in and the last of them came into effect on march 1, 2019. all of these evolving compliance and operational requirements impose significant costs that are likely to increase over time, may divert resources from other initiatives and projects and could restrict the way services involving data are offered, all of which may adversely affect our results of operations. many statutory requirements, both in the united states and abroad, include obligations for companies to notify individuals of security breaches involving certain personal information, which could result from breaches experienced by us or our vendors. in addition to government regulation, privacy advocates and industry groups have and may in the future propose self-regulatory standards from time to time. these and other industry standards may legally or contractually apply to us, or we may elect to comply with such standards. we expect that there will continue to be new proposed laws and regulations concerning data privacy and security, and we cannot yet determine the impact such future laws, regulations and standards may have on our business. furthermore, enforcement actions and investigations by regulatory authorities related to data security incidents and privacy violations continue to increase. unauthorized disclosure or transfer of sensitive or confidential client or company data, whether through systems failure, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, by the company, our vendors or other parties with whom we do business (if they fail to meet the standards we impose) could subject us to significant litigation, monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions, fines and criminal prosecution in one or more jurisdictions. given the complexity of operationalizing the various privacy laws such as the gdpr and the ccpa, the maturity level of proposed compliance frameworks and the continued lack of clarity on how to implement their requirements, we and our clients are at risk of enforcement actions taken by e.u. and other data protection authorities or litigation from consumer advocacy groups acting on behalf of data subjects. we may not be able to respond quickly or effectively to regulatory, legislative and other developments, and these changes may in turn impair our ability to offer our existing or planned products and services and/or increase our cost of doing business. legal and regulatory risks we are subject to significant uninsured exposures arising from errors and omissions, breach of fiduciary duty and other claims. our businesses provide numerous professional services, including the placement of insurance and the provision of consulting, investment advisory and actuarial services, to clients around the world. as a result, the company and its subsidiaries are subject to a significant number of errors and omissions, breach of fiduciary duty and similar claims, which we refer to collectively as "e&amp;o claims." in our risk and 15 insurance services segment, such claims include allegations of damages arising from our failure to assess clients' risks, advise clients, place coverage or notify insurers of potential claims on behalf of clients in accordance with our obligations to them. in our consulting segment, where we increasingly act in a fiduciary capacity through our investments business, such claims could include allegations of damages arising from the provision of consulting, investments, actuarial, pension administration and other services. we may also be exposed to claims related to assets or solutions offered by the consulting segment in complement to its traditional consulting services. these consulting segment services frequently involve complex calculations and other analysis, including (i) making assumptions about, and preparing estimates concerning, contingent future events, (ii) drafting and interpreting complex documentation governing pension plans, (iii) calculating benefits within complex pension structures, (iv) providing individual financial planning advice including investment advice and advice relating to cashing out of defined benefit pension plans; (v) providing investment advice, including guidance on asset allocation and investment strategy, and (vi) managing client assets, including the selection of investment managers and implementation of the client's investment policy. we provide these services to a broad client base, including clients in the public sector for our investment services. matters often relate to services provided by the company dating back many years. such claims may subject us to significant liability for monetary damages, including punitive and treble damages, negative publicity and reputational harm, and may divert personnel and management resources. we may be unable to effectively limit our potential liability in certain jurisdictions, including through insurance, or in connection with certain types of claims, particularly those concerning claims of a breach of fiduciary duty. in establishing liabilities for e&amp;o claims under u.s. generally accepted accounting principles ("u.s. gaap"), the company uses case level reviews by inside and outside counsel, actuarial analysis by oliver wyman group, a subsidiary of the company, and other methods to estimate potential losses. a liability is established when a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable. the liability is assessed quarterly and adjusted as developments warrant. in many cases, the company has not recorded a liability, other than for legal fees to defend the claim, because we are unable, at the present time, to make a determination that a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable. given the judgment involved in estimating and establishing liabilities in accordance with u.s. gaap, as well as the unpredictability of e&amp;o claims and the litigation that can flow from them, it is possible that an adverse outcome in a particular matter could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, results of operations or financial condition. we are subject to regulatory investigations, reviews and other inquiries that consume significant management time and, if determined unfavorably to us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. we are subject to regulatory investigations, reviews and other inquiries that consume significant management time and, if determined unfavorably to us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. for example, in october 2017, the company received a notice that the directorate-general for competition of the european commission had commenced a civil investigation of a number of insurance brokers, including both marsh and jlt, regarding "the exchange of commercially sensitive information between competitors in relation to aviation and aerospace insurance and reinsurance broking products and services in the european economic area, as well as possible coordination between competitors." in january 2019, we received a notice that the administrative council for economic defense anti-trust agency in brazil had commenced an administrative proceeding against a number of insurance brokers, including both marsh and jlt, and insurers to investigate an alleged sharing of sensitive commercial and competitive confidential information in the aviation insurance and reinsurance sector. in addition, upon the consummation of the acquisition of jlt, the company assumed the legal liabilities and became responsible for jlt's litigation and regulatory exposures as of april 1, 2019. these regulatory matters are ongoing, and we are unable to predict their likely timing, outcome or ultimate impact. additional information regarding these investigations and certain other legal and regulatory proceedings is set forth in note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included under part ii, item 8 of this report. 16 we cannot guarantee that we are or will be in compliance with all current and potentially applicable u.s. federal and state or foreign laws and regulations, and actions by regulatory authorities or changes in legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business. our activities are subject to extensive regulation under the laws of the united states and its various states, the united kingdom, the european union and its member states and the other jurisdictions in which we operate. for example, we are subject to regulation by agencies such as the securities and exchange commission, finra and state insurance regulators in the united states, the fca and the competition and markets authority (cma) in the united kingdom, and the european commission in the european union, as further described above under part i, item 1 - business (regulation) of this report. we are also subject to trade sanctions laws relating to countries such as cuba, crimea, iran, north korea, russia, syria and venezuela, and anti-corruption laws such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. anti-bribery act. we are subject to numerous other laws on matters as diverse as internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, securities regulation, data privacy and protection, cybersecurity, taxation, anti-trust and competition, immigration, wage-and-hour standards and employment and labor relations. the u.s. and foreign laws and regulations that apply to our operations are complex and may change rapidly, and our efforts to comply and keep up with them require significant resources. in some cases, these laws and regulations may decrease the need for our services, increase our costs, negatively impact our revenues or impose operational limitations on our business, including on the products and services we may offer or on the amount or type of compensation we may collect. while we attempt to comply with applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that we, our employees, our consultants and our contractors and other agents are in full compliance with such laws and regulations or interpretations at all times, or that we will be able to comply with any future laws or regulations. if we fail to comply or are accused of failing to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including those referred to above, we may become subject to investigations, criminal penalties, civil remedies or other consequences, including fines, injunctions, loss of an operating license or approval, increased scrutiny or oversight by regulatory authorities, the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in a particular business or redress to clients or other parties, and we may become exposed to negative publicity or reputational damage. moreover, our failure to comply with laws or regulations in one jurisdiction may result in increased regulatory scrutiny by other regulatory agencies in that jurisdiction or regulatory agencies in other jurisdictions. the cost of compliance and the consequences of failing to be in compliance could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. in most jurisdictions, government regulatory authorities have the power to interpret and amend or repeal applicable laws and regulations, and have discretion to grant, renew and revoke the various licenses and approvals we need to conduct our activities. such authorities may require the company to incur substantial costs in order to comply with such laws and regulations. in some areas of our businesses, we act on the basis of our own or the industry's interpretations of applicable laws or regulations, which may conflict from state to state or country to country. in the event those interpretations eventually prove different from the interpretations of regulatory authorities, we may be penalized or precluded from carrying on our previous activities. moreover, the laws and regulations to which we are subject may conflict among the various jurisdictions and countries in which we operate, which increases the likelihood of our businesses being non-compliant in one or more jurisdictions. our business or reputation could be harmed by our reliance on third-party providers or introducers. we currently partner with a large volume of third-party providers to meet the needs of our clients around the world. in certain limited instances, we also work with third-party introducers that provide services for public sector clients. there is a risk that our third-party providers or introducers engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies or violate applicable laws and regulations, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. anti-bribery act. 17 acquisitions and dispositions risks we face risks when we acquire businesses, including risks relating to our integration of jlt. we have a history of making acquisitions and investments, including a total of 123 in the period from 2013 to 2019. in particular, we completed the acquisition of the jardine lloyd thompson group plc ("jlt") on april 1, 2019 (the jlt transaction ). we may not be able to successfully integrate the business of jlt or any other businesses that we acquire into our own business, or achieve any expected cost savings or synergies from the integration of jlt or any other such integration. the potential difficulties that we may face which could cause the results of the acquisition of jlt or any other business to differ from our expectations, include, but are not limited to, the following: the retention of key colleagues and clients; failure to implement our business plan for the combined business or to achieve anticipated revenue or profitability targets; delays or difficulties in completing the integration of acquired companies or assets; higher than expected costs, lower than expected cost savings and/or a need to allocate resources to manage unexpected operating difficulties; issues in integrating information and technology, accounting, tax, financial reporting, human resources, and other systems; assumption of unknown liabilities, or other unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities; weaknesses and vulnerabilities in an acquired entity's information systems, either before or after the acquisition, which could expose us to unexpected liabilities or make our own systems more vulnerable to a cyberattack; changes in applicable laws and regulations or their interpretations, including changes in tax laws, employment regulations and changes in the u.k. and europe related to brexit; diversion of attention and resources of management; promoting or retaining a positive corporate culture; retaining and obtaining required regulatory approvals, licenses and permits; for acquisitions in which the acquired company's financial performance is incorporated into our financial results, either in full or in part, the dependence on the acquired company's accounting, financial reporting and similar systems, controls and processes; the difficulty of implementing the required controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a u.s. public company, including compliance with the requirements under the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, and the potential for significant deficiencies or material weaknesses related to controls and procedures, particularly for acquisitions of companies headquartered outside the u.s.; the ability to receive dividends and other payments from newly acquired companies; and compliance with all current and potentially applicable u.s. federal and state or foreign laws and regulations, including the u.k. anti-bribery act, u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and u.s. anti-money laundering and sanctions laws. in addition, if in the future the performance of our reporting units or an acquired business varies from our projections or assumptions, or estimates about future profitability of our reporting units or an acquired business change, the estimated fair value of our reporting units or an acquired business could change materially and could result in an impairment of goodwill and other acquisition-related intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet or in adjustments in contingent payment amounts. given the significant size of the company's goodwill and intangible assets, an impairment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any given period. we expect that acquisitions will continue to be a key part of our business strategy. our success in this regard will depend on our ability to identify and compete for appropriate acquisition candidates and to finance and complete the transactions we decide to pursue on favorable terms with positive results. 18 when we dispose of businesses, we may continue to be subject to certain liabilities of that business after its disposition relating to the prior period of our ownership and may not be able to negotiate for limitations on those liabilities. we are also subject to the risk that the sales price is less than the amount reflected on our balance sheet. competitive risks the loss of members of our senior management team or other key colleagues could have a material adverse effect on our business. we rely upon the contributions of our senior management team to establish and implement our business strategy and to manage the future growth of our business. the loss of any of the senior management team could limit our ability to successfully execute our business strategy or adversely affect our ability to retain existing and attract new clients. moreover, we could be adversely affected if we fail to adequately plan for the succession of members of our senior management team. across all of our businesses, our colleagues are critical to developing and retaining client relationships as well as performing the services on which our revenues are earned. it is therefore important for us to attract, incentivize and retain significant revenue-producing employees and the key managerial and other professionals who support them. we face numerous challenges in this regard, including the intense competition for talent, the general mobility of colleagues and fostering a diverse and inclusive workplace. losing colleagues who manage or support substantial client relationships or possess substantial experience or expertise could adversely affect our ability to secure and complete client engagements, which could adversely affect our results of operations. and, subject to applicable enforceable restrictive covenants, if a key employee were to join an existing competitor or form a competing company, some of our clients could choose to use the services of that competitor instead of our services. failure to maintain our corporate culture could damage our reputation. we strive to foster a culture in which our colleagues act with integrity and feel comfortable speaking up about potential misconduct. we are a people business, and our ability to attract and retain colleagues and clients is dependent upon our commitment to a diverse and inclusive workplace, trustworthiness, ethical business practices and other qualities. our colleagues are the cornerstone of this culture, and acts of misconduct by any colleague, and particularly by senior management, could erode trust and confidence and damage our reputation among existing and potential clients and other stakeholders. in addition, there is increased focus, including from governmental organizations, investors, colleagues and clients, on environmental, social and governance (esg) issues such as climate change. our reputation could be damaged if we do not, or are perceived not to, adequately address these issues. we face significant competitive pressures in each of our businesses, including from disintermediation, as our competitive landscape continues to evolve. as a global professional services firm, the company faces intense, sustained competition in each of its businesses, and the competitive landscape continues to change and evolve. our ability to compete successfully depends on a variety of factors, including the quality and expertise of our colleagues, our geographic reach, the sophistication and quality of our services, our pricing relative to competitors, our clients' ability to self-insure or use internal resources instead of consultants, and our ability to respond to changes in client demand and industry conditions. some of our competitors may have greater financial resources, or may be better positioned to respond to technological and other changes in the industries we serve, and they may be able to compete more effectively. if we are unable to respond successfully to the changing conditions we face, our businesses, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely impacted. in our risk and insurance services segment, in addition to the challenges posed by capital market alternatives to traditional insurance and reinsurance, we compete intensely against a wide range of other insurance and reinsurance brokerage and risk advisory firms that operate on a global, regional, national or local scale for both client business and employee talent. in recent years, private equity sponsors have invested tens of billions of dollars into the insurance brokerage sector, transforming existing players and creating new ones to compete with large global and regional brokers. we also compete with in-house brokers, captive insurance companies, insurance and reinsurance companies that market and service 19 their insurance products directly to consumers and without the assistance of brokers or other market intermediaries, and with various other companies that provide risk-related services or alternatives to traditional brokerage services, including those that rely almost exclusively on technological solutions or platforms. this competition is intensified by an often "syndicated" or "distributed" approach to the purchase of insurance and reinsurance brokerage services, where a client engages multiple brokers to service different portions of the client's account. in addition, third party capital providers have entered the insurance and reinsurance risk transfer market offering products and capital directly to our clients that serve as substitutes for traditional insurance. in our consulting segment, we compete for business with numerous consulting firms and similar organizations, many of whom also provide, or are affiliated with firms that provide, accounting, information systems, technology and financial services. such competitors may be able to offer more comprehensive products and services to potential clients, which may give them a competitive advantage. consolidation in the industries we serve could adversely affect our business. companies in the industries that we serve may seek to achieve economies of scale and other synergies by combining with or acquiring other companies. if two or more of our current clients merge, or consolidate or combine their operations, it may decrease the amount of work that we perform for these clients. if one of our current clients merges or consolidates with a company that relies on another provider for its services, we may lose work from that client or lose the opportunity to gain additional work. any of these or similar possible results of increasing or evolving industry consolidation could adversely affect our business. for example, as insurance and reinsurance companies continue to consolidate, guy carpenter's smaller client base may be more susceptible to this risk given the limited number of insurance company clients and reinsurers in the marketplace. in addition, in our consulting segment in australia, mercer faces increased competitive pressure as the superannuation industry is consolidating, and superannuation providers, such as mercer, face increased downward pressure on fees. we rely on a large number of vendors and other third parties to perform key functions of our business operations and to provide services to our clients. these vendors and third parties may act in ways that could harm our business. we rely on a large number of vendors and other third parties, and in some cases subcontractors, to provide services, data and information such as technology, information security, funds transfers, business process management, and administration and support functions that are critical to the operations of our business. these third parties include correspondents, agents and other brokers and intermediaries, insurance markets, data providers, plan trustees, payroll service providers, software and system vendors, health plan providers, investment managers, risk modeling providers, and providers of human resource functions, such as recruiters. many of these providers are located outside the u.s., which exposes us to business disruptions and political risks inherent when conducting business outside of the u.s. as we do not fully control the actions of these third parties, we are subject to the risk that their decisions or operations may adversely impact us and replacing these service providers could create significant delay in services or operations and additional expense. a failure by the third parties to (i) comply with service level agreements in a high quality and timely manner, particularly during periods of our peak demand for their services, (ii) maintain adequate internal controls that may impact our own financial reporting, or (iii) adequately maintain the confidentiality of any of our data or trade secrets or adequately protect or properly use other intellectual property to which they may have access, could result in economic and reputational harm to us. these third parties also face their own technology, operating, business and economic risks, and any significant failures by them, including the improper use or disclosure of our confidential client, employee, or company information or failure to comply with applicable law, could cause harm to our reputation or otherwise expose us to liability. an interruption in or the cessation of service by any service provider as a result of systems failures, capacity constraints, non-compliance with legal, regulatory or contractual obligations, financial difficulties or for any other reason could disrupt our operations, impact our ability to offer certain products and services, and result in contractual or regulatory penalties, liability claims from clients or employees, damage to our reputation and harm to our business. 20 business resiliency risks our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity or data recovery problem could cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. if we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity event, such as an earthquake, hurricane, flood, terrorist attack, pandemic, security breach, cyberattack (including manipulating the control systems of critical infrastructure), power loss or telecommunications failure, our ability to operate will depend, in part, on the continued availability of our personnel, our office facilities and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. in such an event, we could experience operational challenges that could have a material adverse effect on our business. the risk of business disruption is more pronounced in certain geographic areas, including major metropolitan centers, like new york or london, where we have significant operations and approximately 3,300 and 5,200 colleagues in those respective locations, and in certain countries and regions in which we operate that are subject to higher potential threat of terrorist attacks or military conflicts. our operations depend in particular upon our ability to protect our technology infrastructure against damage. if a business continuity event occurs, we could lose client or company data or experience interruptions to our operations or delivery of services to our clients, which could have a material adverse effect. a cyberattack or other business continuity event affecting us or a key vendor or other third party could result in a significant and extended disruption in the functioning of our information technology systems or operations or our ability to recover data, requiring us to incur significant expense to address and remediate or otherwise resolve such issues. for example, hackers have increasingly targeted companies by attacking internet-connected industrial control and safety control systems. an extended outage could result in the loss of clients and a decline in our revenues. in the worst case, any manipulation of the control systems of critical infrastructure may even result in the loss of life. we regularly assess and take steps to improve our existing business continuity, disaster recovery and data recovery plans and key management succession. however, a disaster or other continuity event on a significant scale or affecting certain of our key operating areas within or across regions, or our inability to successfully recover from such an event, could materially interrupt our business operations and result in material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, damaged client relationships and legal liability. our business disruption insurance may also not fully cover, in type or amount, the cost of a successful recovery in the event of such a disruption. financial risks our results of operations and investments could be adversely affected by macroeconomic conditions, political events and market conditions. macroeconomic conditions, political events and other market conditions around the world affect our clients' businesses and the markets they serve. these conditions may reduce demand for our services or depress pricing for those services, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. changes in macroeconomic and political conditions could also shift demand to services for which we do not have a competitive advantage, and this could negatively affect the amount of business that we are able to obtain. the united kingdom's exit from the european union, referred to as "brexit," continues to create political and economic uncertainty, particularly in the united kingdom and the european union. the british government and the e.u. continue to negotiate the terms of the u.k.'s future relationship with the e.u. there remains inevitable uncertainty on topics such as financial laws and regulations, tax and free trade agreements, immigration laws and employment laws. we have significant operations and a substantial workforce in the u.k. approximately 16% of our revenue is from the u.k., and the uncertainty surrounding the implementation and effect of brexit may cause increased economic volatility, affecting our operations and business. the effects of brexit will depend on the agreements the u.k. makes to retain access to european union markets during a transitional period and more permanently. the measures could potentially disrupt the markets we serve and may cause us to lose clients and colleagues. in addition, brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the u.k. determines which european union laws to replace or replicate. these developments may have a material adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of financial markets, both in the u.k. and 21 globally. any of these factors could affect the demand for our services. furthermore, currency exchange rates in gbp and the euro with respect to each other and the u.s. dollar have already been adversely affected by these developments. should this foreign exchange volatility continue, it could cause volatility in our quarterly financial results. in addition, any changes in u.s. trade policy could trigger retaliatory actions by affected countries, resulting in trade wars, which could affect the volume of economic activity and performance of stock markets in the united states, including demand for our services. our investments, including our minority investments in other companies as well as our cash investments and those held in a fiduciary capacity, are subject to general credit, liquidity, counterparty, foreign exchange, market and interest rate risks. these risks may be exacerbated by global macroeconomic conditions, market volatility and regulatory, financial and other difficulties affecting the companies in which we have invested or that may be faced by financial institution counterparties. during times of stress in the banking industry, counterparty risk can quickly escalate, potentially resulting in substantial trading and investment losses for corporate and other investors. in addition, we may incur investment losses as a result of unusual and unpredictable market developments, and we may continue to experience reduced investment earnings if the yields on investments deemed to be low risk remain at or near their current low levels. if the banking system or the fixed income, interest rate, credit or equity markets deteriorate, the value and liquidity of our investments could be adversely affected. finally, the value of the company's assets held in other jurisdictions, including cash holdings, may decline due to foreign exchange fluctuations. if we are unable to collect our receivables, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. our business depends on our ability to obtain payment from our clients of the amounts they owe us for the work we perform. as of december 31, 2019, our receivables for our commissions and fees were approximately $4.6 billion, or approximately one-quarter of our total annual revenues, and portions of our receivables are increasingly concentrated in certain businesses and geographies. macroeconomic or political conditions could result in financial difficulties for our clients, which could cause clients to delay payments to us, request modifications to their payment arrangements that could increase our receivables balance or default on their payment obligations to us. we may not be able to obtain sufficient financing on favorable terms. the maintenance and growth of our business, including our ability to finance acquisitions, the payment of dividends and our ability to make share repurchases rely on our access to capital, which depends in large part on cash flow generated by our business and the availability of equity and debt financing. certain of our businesses such as gc securities, a division of mmc securities, llc and mmc securities (europe) limited also rely on financings by us to fund their underwriting of debt and equity capital raising offerings by their clients. we incurred significant debt to finance the jlt transaction, and there can be no assurance that our operations will generate sufficient positive cash flow to finance all of our capital needs or that we will be able to obtain equity or debt financing on favorable terms. in addition, our ability to obtain financing will depend in part upon prevailing conditions in credit and capital markets, which are beyond our control. our defined benefit pension plan obligations could cause the company's financial position, earnings and cash flows to fluctuate. our defined benefit pension obligations and the assets set aside to fund those obligations are sensitive to certain changes in the financial markets. any such changes may result in increased pension expense or additional cash payments to fund these plans. the company has significant defined benefit pension obligations to its current and former employees, including obligations assumed as part of the jlt transaction, totaling approximately $17.6 billion, and related plan assets of approximately $17.0 billion, at december 31, 2019 on a u.s. gaap basis. as part of the jlt transaction, the company assumed responsibility for a number of pension plans throughout the world, with $255 million of net pension liabilities as of december 31, 2019 ($1,003 million in liabilities and $748 million of plan assets as of december 31, 2019). the company's policy for funding its defined benefit pension plans is to contribute amounts at least sufficient to meet the funding requirements set 22 forth by law. in the united states, contributions to these plans are based on erisa guidelines. outside the united states, contributions are generally based on statutory requirements and local funding practices, which may differ from measurements under u.s. gaap. in the u.k., for example, the assumptions used to determine pension contributions are the result of legally-prescribed negotiations between the company and the plans' trustees. currently, the use of these assumptions results in a lower funded status than determined under u.s. gaap and may result in contributions irrespective of the u.s. gaap funded status. the financial calculations relating to our defined benefit pension plans are complex. pension plan assets could decrease as the result of poor future asset performance. in addition, the estimated return on plan assets would likely be impacted by changes in the interest rate environment and other factors, including equity valuations, since these factors reflect the starting point used in the company's projection models. for example a reduction in interest rates may result in a reduction in the estimated return on plan assets. also, pension plan liabilities, periodic pension expense and future funding amounts could increase as a result of a decline in the interest rates we use to discount our pension liabilities, longer lifespans than those reflected in our mortality assumptions, changes in investment markets that result in lower expected returns on assets, actual investment return that is less than the expected return on assets, adverse changes in laws or regulations and other variables. while we have taken steps to mitigate the impact of pension volatility on our earnings and cash funding requirements, these strategies may not be successful. accordingly, given the magnitude of our worldwide pension plans, variations in or reassessment of the preceding or other factors or potential miscalculations relating to our defined benefit pension plans could cause significant fluctuation from year to year in our earnings and cash flow, as well as our pension plan assets, liabilities and equity, and may result in increased levels of contributions to our pension plans. our significant non-u.s. operations expose us to exchange rate fluctuations and various risks that could impact our business. approximately 53% of our business is located outside of the united states. we are subject to exchange rate movement because we must translate the financial results of our foreign subsidiaries into u.s. dollars and also because some of our subsidiaries receive revenue other than in their functional currencies. exchange rate movements may change over time, and they could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows reported in u.s. dollars. our u.s. operations earn revenue and incur expenses primarily in u.s. dollars. in certain jurisdictions, however, while risk and insurance services operations generate revenue in a number of different currencies, expenses are almost entirely incurred in local currency. due to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, we are subject to economic exposure as well as currency translation exposure on the net operating results of our operations. because the non-u.s. based revenue that is exposed to foreign exchange fluctuations is approximately 53% of total revenue, exchange rate movement can have a significant impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. for additional discussion, see "market risk and credit risk-foreign currency risk" in part ii, item 7a ("quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk") of this report. we may not be able to receive dividends or other distributions in needed amounts from our subsidiaries. the company is organized as a legal entity separate and distinct from our operating subsidiaries. because we do not have significant operations of our own, we are dependent upon dividends and other payments from our operating subsidiaries to meet our obligations for paying principal and interest on outstanding debt obligations, paying dividends to stockholders, repurchasing our common stock under our share repurchase program and paying corporate expenses. in the event our operating subsidiaries are unable to pay sufficient dividends and make other payments to the company, we may not be able to service our debt, pay dividends on or repurchase our common stock or meet our other obligations. further, the company derives a significant portion of its revenue and operating profit from operating subsidiaries located outside the united states. funds from the current year's earnings of the company's non-u.s. operating subsidiaries are regularly repatriated to the united states. a number of factors could arise that could limit our ability to repatriate funds or could make repatriation cost-prohibitive, including, but not limited to, the imposition of currency controls and other government restrictions on repatriation in 23 the jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and the imposition of withholding and other taxes on such payments. in the event we are unable to generate or repatriate cash from our operating subsidiaries, our overall liquidity could deteriorate and our ability to finance our obligations, including to pay dividends on or repurchase our common stock, could be adversely affected. our quarterly revenues and profitability may fluctuate significantly. quarterly variations in revenues and operating results may occur due to several factors. these include: the number of client engagements during a quarter; the possibility that clients may decide to delay or terminate a current or anticipated project as a result of factors unrelated to our work product or progress; fluctuations in hiring and utilization rates and clients' ability to terminate engagements without penalty; potential limitations on the clients or industries we serve resulting from increased regulation or changing stakeholder expectations on esg issues; the impact of changes in accounting standards or in our accounting estimates or assumptions, including from the adoption of the revenue recognition, pension or lease accounting standards; the impact on us or our clients of changes in legislation, regulation and legal guidance or interpretations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including with respect to the tcja; seasonality due to the impact of regulatory deadlines, policy renewals and other timing factors to which our clients are subject; the success of our acquisitions or investments; macroeconomic factors such as changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and global securities markets, particularly in the case of mercer, where fees in its investments business and certain other business lines are derived from the value of assets under management or administration; and general economic conditions, including factors beyond our control affecting economic conditions such as severe weather, climate change, global health crises and pandemics, geopolitical unrest or other catastrophic events, since our results of operations are directly affected by the levels of business activity of our clients, which in turn are affected by the level of economic activity in the industries and markets that they serve. a significant portion of our total operating expenses is relatively fixed in the short term. therefore, a variation in the number of client assignments or in the timing of the initiation or the completion of client assignments can cause significant variations in quarterly operating results for these businesses. credit rating downgrades would increase our financing costs and could subject us to operational risk. currently, the company's senior debt is rated a- by s&amp;p and baa1 by moody's. the ratings from both s&amp;p and moody's currently carry a negative outlook. if we need to raise capital in the future (for example, in order to fund maturing debt obligations or finance acquisitions or other initiatives), credit rating downgrades would increase our financing costs, and could limit our access to financing sources. further, a downgrade to a rating below investment-grade could result in greater operational risks through increased operating costs and increased competitive pressures. we have significantly increased our debt as a result of the jlt acquisition, which could adversely affect our financial flexibility. as of december 31, 2019, we had total consolidated debt outstanding of approximately $12.0 billion. in 2019 alone, we incurred $6.5 billion of additional debt to finance the jlt acquisition. 24 the level of debt outstanding could adversely affect our financial flexibility by reducing our cash flows and our ability to use cash from operations for other purposes, including working capital, dividends to shareholders, share repurchases, acquisitions, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes. in addition, we are subject to risks that, at the time any of our outstanding debt matures, we will not be able to retire or refinance the debt on terms that are acceptable to us. we also face the risk of a credit rating downgrade if we do not retire or refinance the debt to levels acceptable to the credit rating agencies in a timely manner. the ongoing effects from the 2017 tax cuts and jobs act continue to make our results more difficult to predict. our effective tax rate may fluctuate in the future as a result of the 2017 tax cuts and jobs act (the "tcja") and the continuing issuance of interpretive guidance related to the tcja. the tcja included significant changes in u.s. income tax law that has a meaningful impact on our provision for income taxes and requires significant judgments and estimates in interpretation and calculations. given the significant complexity of the tcja, the potential for new legislation or additional guidance from u.s. treasury, the securities and exchange commission, the financial accounting standards board or other regulatory authorities related to the tcja, recognized impacts in future periods could be significantly different from our current estimates. such uncertainty may also result in increased scrutiny from, or disagreements with, tax authorities. the enacted tax legislation included, among other provisions, a reduction in the corporate tax rate, new limitations on the deductibility of net interest, a tax on global intangible low-taxed income ("gilti"), and the base erosion and anti-abuse tax ("beat"). with respect to gilti, we are experiencing relatively high effective tax rates on our foreign source earnings because of the limitation on foreign tax credits on income already subject to tax rates higher than the u.s. rate. the provision continues to be subject to regulatory guidance and possible legislative changes, which make predicting its impact on our tax rate difficult. in addition, the interaction of gilti with the interest expense limitations may negatively impact our effective tax rate. also, due to the lack of court cases testing the tcja and related regulations, it cannot be certain that we will not be subject to the beat. the beat levies a significant tax on cross border payments to related group companies. while we operate in a manner that currently limits our exposure to beat, uncertainty about the financial impact on us of this tax remains and there can be no assurance that we will not be subject to material amounts of beat in the future. global operations we are exposed to multiple risks associated with the global nature of our operations. we conduct business globally. in 2019, approximately 53% of the company's total revenue was generated from operations outside the united states, and over one-half of our employees were located outside the united states. the jlt transaction significantly expanded our non-u.s. operations in jurisdictions such as the u.k., asia, south america and australia, and we expect to expand our non-u.s. operations further. the geographic breadth of our activities subjects us to significant legal, economic, operational, market, compliance and reputational risks. these include, among others, risks relating to: economic and political conditions in the countries in which we operate; client concentration in certain high-growth countries in which we operate; the length of payment cycles and potential difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; unexpected increases in taxes or changes in u.s. or foreign tax laws, rulings, policies or related legal and regulatory interpretations, including recent international initiatives to require multinational enterprises, like ours, to report profitability on a country-by-country basis, which could increase scrutiny by, or cause disagreements with, foreign tax authorities and the potential imposition of new global minimum tax; potential transfer pricing-related tax exposures that may result from the flow of funds among our subsidiaries and affiliates in the various jurisdictions in which we operate; withholding or other taxes that foreign governments may impose on the payment of dividends or other remittances to us from our non-u.s. subsidiaries; 25 potential conflicts of interest that may arise as we expand the scope of our businesses and our client base; international hostilities, international trade disputes, terrorist activities, natural disasters and infrastructure disruptions; local investment or other financial restrictions that foreign governments may impose; potential lawsuits, investigations, market studies, reviews or other activity by foreign regulatory or law enforcement authorities or legislatively appointed commissions, which may result in potential modifications to our businesses, related private litigation or increased scrutiny from u.s. or other regulators; potential costs and difficulties in complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations (including tax systems) administered by foreign government agencies, some of which may conflict with u.s. or other sources of law; potential costs and difficulties in complying, or monitoring compliance, with foreign and u.s. laws and regulations that are applicable to our operations abroad, including trade sanctions laws relating to countries such as cuba, crimea, iran, north korea, russia, syria and venezuela and anti-corruption laws such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act 2010; limitations or restrictions that foreign or u.s. governments and regulators may impose on the products or services we sell, the methods by which we sell our products and services and the manner in which and the amounts we are compensated; potential limitations or difficulties in protecting our intellectual property in various foreign jurisdictions; limitations that foreign governments may impose on the conversion of currency or the payment of dividends or other remittances to us from our non-u.s. subsidiaries; engaging and relying on third parties to perform services on behalf of the company; and potential difficulties in monitoring employees in geographically dispersed locations. risks relating to our risk and insurance services segment our risk and insurance services segment, conducted through marsh and guy carpenter, represented 57% of the company's total revenue in 2019. our business in this segment is subject to particular risks. results in our risk and insurance services segment may be adversely affected by a general decline in economic activity. demand for many types of insurance and reinsurance generally rises or falls as economic growth expands or slows. this dynamic affects the level of commissions and fees generated by marsh and guy carpenter. to the extent our clients become adversely affected by declining business conditions, they may choose to limit their purchases of insurance and reinsurance coverage, as applicable, which would inhibit our ability to generate commission revenue and other revenue based on premiums placed by us. also, the insurance they seek to obtain through us may be impacted by changes in their assets, property values, sales or number of employees, which may reduce our commission revenue, and they may decide not to purchase our risk advisory or other services, which would inhibit our ability to generate fee revenue. moreover, insolvencies and combinations associated with an economic downturn, especially insolvencies and combinations in the insurance industry, could adversely affect our brokerage business through the loss of clients or by limiting our ability to place insurance and reinsurance business, as well as our revenues from insurers. guy carpenter is especially susceptible to this risk given the limited number of insurance company clients and reinsurers in the marketplace. volatility or declines in premiums and other market trends may significantly impede our ability to grow revenues and profitability. a significant portion of our risk and insurance services revenue consists of commissions paid to us out of the premiums that insurers and reinsurers charge our clients for coverage. we do not determine the insurance premiums on which our commissions are generally based. our revenues and profitability are 26 subject to change to the extent that premium rates fluctuate or trend in a particular direction. the potential for changes in premium rates is significant, due to the normal cycles of pricing in the commercial insurance and reinsurance markets. as traditional insurance companies continue to rely on non-affiliated brokers or agents to generate premium, those insurance companies may seek to reduce their expenses by lowering their commission rates. the reduction of these commission rates, along with general volatility or declines in premiums, may significantly affect our revenue and profitability. because we do not determine the timing or extent of premium pricing changes, it is difficult to accurately forecast our commission revenues, including whether they will significantly decline. as a result, we may have to adjust our plans for future acquisitions, capital expenditures, dividend payments, loan repayments and other expenditures to account for unexpected changes in revenues, and any decreases in premium rates may adversely affect the results of our operations. in addition to movements in premium rates, our ability to generate premium-based commission revenue may be challenged by disintermediation and the growing availability of alternative methods for clients to meet their risk-protection needs. this trend includes a greater willingness on the part of corporations to self-insure, the use of captive insurers, and the presence of capital markets-based solutions for traditional insurance and reinsurance needs. further, the profitability of our risk and insurances services segment depends in part on our ability to be compensated for the analytical services and other advice that we provide, including the consulting and analytics services that we provide to insurers. if we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate billing rates for all of our services, our margins and profitability could decline. adverse legal developments and future regulations concerning how intermediaries are compensated by insurers or clients, as well as allegations of anti-competitive behavior or conflicts of interest more broadly, could have a material adverse effect on marsh's business, results of operations and financial condition. the ways in which insurance intermediaries are compensated receive scrutiny from regulators in part because of the potential for anti-competitive behavior and conflicts of interest. the vast majority of the compensation that marsh receives is in the form of retail fees and commissions that are paid by the client or paid from premium that is paid by the client. the amount of other compensation that we receive from insurance companies, separate from retail fees and commissions, has increased in the last several years, both on an underlying basis and through acquisition. this other compensation includes payment for (i) consulting and analytics services provided to insurers; (ii) administrative and other services provided to insurers (including services relating to the administration and management of quota shares, panels and other facilities); and (iii) contingent commissions, primarily at mma and outside the u.s., paid by insurers based on factors such as volume or profitability. these other revenue streams present potential regulatory, litigation and reputational risks that may arise from alleged anti-competitive behavior or conflicts of interest, and future changes in the regulatory environment may impact our ability to collect such revenue. adverse regulatory, legal or other developments could have a material adverse effect on our business and expose the company to negative publicity and reputational harm. risks relating to our consulting segment our consulting segment, conducted through mercer and oliver wyman group, represented 43% of our total revenue in 2019. our businesses in this segment are subject to particular risks. mercer's investments business is subject to a number of risks, including risks related to third-party investment managers, operational risk, conflicts of interest, asset performance and regulatory compliance, that, if realized, could result in significant damage to our business. mercer's investments business provides clients with investment consulting and investment management (also referred to as "delegated solutions" or "fiduciary management") services. in the investment consulting business, clients make and implement their own investment decisions based upon advice provided by mercer. in its delegated solutions business, mercer implements the client's investment policy by engaging and overseeing third-party asset managers who determine which investments to buy and sell. to effect implementation of a client's investment policy, mercer may utilize its "manager of managers" investment funds. 27 mercer's investments business is subject to a number of risks, including risks related to third-parties, our operations, conflicts of interest, asset performance and regulatory compliance and scrutiny, which could arise in connection with these offerings. for example, mercer's due diligence on an asset manager may fail to uncover material deficiencies or fraud that could result in investment losses to a client. there is a risk that mercer will fail to properly implement a client's investment policy, which could cause an incorrect or untimely allocation of client assets among asset managers or strategies. mercer may also be perceived as recommending certain asset managers to clients, or offering delegated solutions to an investment consulting client, solely to enhance its own compensation. asset classes may perform poorly, or asset managers may underperform their benchmarks, due to poor market performance, a downturn in the global equity markets, negligence or other reasons, resulting in poor returns or loss of client capital. changes in the value levels of equity, debt, real assets, commodities, foreign exchange or other asset markets, in particular as a result of a downturn in the global markets, may cause our assets under management, revenue and earnings to decline. these risks, if realized, could result in significant liability and damage our business. revenues for the services provided by our consulting segment may decline for various reasons, including as a result of changes in economic conditions, the value of equity, debt and other asset markets, our clients' or an industry's financial condition or government regulation or an accelerated trend away from actively managed investments to passively managed investments. global economic conditions may negatively impact businesses and financial institutions. many of our clients, including financial institutions, corporations, government entities and pension plans, have reduced expenses, including amounts spent on consulting services, and used internal resources instead of consultants during difficult economic periods. the evolving needs and financial circumstances of our clients may reduce demand for our consulting services and could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. if the economy or markets in which we operate experience weakness or deteriorate, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, some of mercer's investments business generate fees based upon the value of the clients' assets under management or advisement. changes in the value of equity, debt, currency, real estate, commodities or other asset classes could cause the value of assets under management or advisement, and the fees received by mercer, to decline. such changes could also cause clients to withdraw funds from mercer's investments business in favor of other investment service providers. in either case, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. mercer's investments business also could be adversely affected by an accelerated shift away from actively managed investments to passively managed investments with associated lower fees. further, revenue received by mercer as investment manager to the majority of the mercer-managed investment funds is reported in accordance with u.s. gaap on a gross basis rather than a net basis, with sub-advisor fees reflected as an expense. therefore, the reported revenue for these offerings does not fully reflect the amount of net revenue ultimately attributable to mercer. demand for many of mercer's benefits services is affected by government regulation and tax laws, rulings, policies and interpretations, which drive our clients' needs for benefits-related services. significant changes in government regulations affecting the value, use or delivery of benefits and human resources programs, including changes in regulations relating to health and welfare plans, defined contribution plans or defined benefit plans, may adversely affect the demand for or profitability of mercer's services. factors affecting defined benefit pension plans and the services we provide relating to those plans could adversely affect mercer. mercer currently provides corporate trustees, multi-employer and public clients with actuarial, consulting and administration services relating to defined benefit pension plans. the nature of our work is complex. many clients, particularly in the public sector, have sizeable pension deficits and are subject to impact from volatility in the global stock markets and interest rate fluctuations. a number of mercer's clients have frozen or curtailed their defined benefit plans and have moved to defined contribution plans resulting in reduced revenue for mercer's retirement business. these developments and a continued or accelerated rate of decline in revenues for our defined benefit pension plans business could adversely affect mercer's business and operating results. in addition, our actuarial services involve numerous assumptions and estimates regarding future events, including interest rates used to discount future liabilities, estimated 28 rates of return for a plan's assets, healthcare cost trends, salary projections and participants' life expectancies. our consulting services involve the drafting and interpretation of trust deeds and other complex documentation governing pension plans. our administration services include calculating benefits within complicated pension plan structures. our investments services include investment advice and management relating to defined benefit pension plan assets intended to fund present and future benefit obligations. clients dissatisfied with our services have brought, and may bring, significant claims against us, particularly in the united states and the united kingdom. the profitability of our consulting segment may decline if we are unable to achieve or maintain adequate utilization and pricing rates for our consultants. the profitability of our consulting businesses depends in part on ensuring that our consultants maintain adequate utilization rates (i.e., the percentage of our consultants' working hours devoted to billable activities). our utilization rates are affected by a number of factors, including: our ability to transition consultants promptly from completed projects to new assignments, and to engage newly-hired consultants quickly in revenue-generating activities; our ability to continually secure new business engagements, particularly because a portion of our work is project-based rather than recurring in nature; our ability to forecast demand for our services and thereby maintain appropriate headcount in each of our geographies and workforces; our ability to retain key colleagues and consulting professionals; unanticipated changes in the scope of client engagements; the potential for conflicts of interest that might require us to decline client engagements that we otherwise would have accepted; our need to devote time and resources to sales, training, professional development and other non-billable activities; the potential disruptive impact of acquisitions and dispositions; and general economic conditions. if the utilization rate for our consulting professionals declines, our profit margin and profitability could decline. in addition, the profitability of our consulting businesses depends in part on the prices we are able to charge for our services. the prices we charge are affected by a number of factors, including: clients' perception of our ability to add value through our services; market demand for the services we provide; our ability to develop new services and the introduction of new services by competitors; the pricing policies of our competitors; the extent to which our clients develop in-house or other capabilities to perform the services that they might otherwise purchase from us; and general economic conditions. if we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate billing rates for our services, our profit margin and profitability could decline. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk and credit risk certain of the company's revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and equity markets. interest rate risk and credit risk interest income generated from the company's cash investments as well as invested fiduciary funds will vary with the general level of interest rates. the company had the following investments subject to variable interest rates: (in millions of dollars) december 31, 2019 cash and cash equivalents invested in money market funds, certificates of deposit and time deposits $ 1,155 fiduciary cash and investments $ 7,344 based on the above balances, if short-term interest rates increased or decreased by 10%, or 15 basis points, over the full year, annual interest income, including interest earned on fiduciary funds, would increase or decrease by approximately $8 million. in addition to interest rate risk, our cash investments and fiduciary fund investments are subject to potential loss of value due to counter-party credit risk. to minimize this risk, the company and its subsidiaries invest pursuant to a board approved investment policy. the policy mandates the preservation of principal and liquidity and requires broad diversification with counter-party limits assigned based primarily on credit rating and type of investment. the company carefully monitors its cash and fiduciary fund investments and will further restrict the portfolio as appropriate to market conditions. the majority of cash and fiduciary fund investments are invested in short-term bank deposits and liquid money market funds. foreign currency risk the translated values of revenue and expense from the company's international operations are subject to fluctuations due to changes in currency exchange rates. the non-u.s. based revenue that is exposed to foreign exchange fluctuations is approximately 53% of total revenue. we periodically use forward contracts and options to limit foreign currency exchange rate exposure on net income and cash flows for specific, clearly defined transactions arising in the ordinary course of business. although the company has significant revenue generated in foreign locations which is subject to foreign exchange rate fluctuations, in most cases both the foreign currency revenue and expenses are in the functional currency of the foreign location. as such, under normal circumstances, the u.s. dollar translation of both the revenues and expenses, as well as the potentially offsetting movements of various currencies against the u.s. dollar, generally tends to mitigate the impact on net operating income of foreign currency risk. however, there have been periods where the impact was not mitigated due to external market factors, and external macroeconomic events, such as the impact of "brexit" in the united kingdom, may result in greater foreign exchange rate fluctuations in the future. if foreign exchange rates of major currencies (euro, sterling, australian dollar and canadian dollar) moved 10% in the same direction against the u.s. dollar compared with the foreign exchange rates in 2019 , the company estimates net operating income would increase or decrease by approximately $53 million. the company has exposure to approximately 85 foreign currencies overall. in continental europe, the largest amount of revenue from renewals for the risk &amp; insurance services segment occurs in the first quarter. equity price risk as discussed in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, effective january 1, 2018, the company adopted a new accounting standard that requires equity investments with readily determinable market values to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income. 54 the company holds investments in both public and private companies as well as private equity funds, including investments of approximately $19 million that are valued using readily determinable fair values and approximately $67 million of investments without readily determinable fair values. the company also has investments of approximately $434 million that are accounted for using the equity method, including the company's investment in alexander forbes. the investments are subject to risk of decline in market value, which, if determined to be other than temporary for assets without readily determinable fair values, could result in realized impairment losses. the company periodically reviews the carrying value of such investments to determine if any valuation adjustments are appropriate under the applicable accounting pronouncements. the company owns approximately 34% of the common stock of alexander forbes, a south african company listed on the johannesburg stock exchange, which it purchased in 2014 for 7.50 south african rand per share. in the third quarter of 2018, the company concluded the decline in value of the investment was other than temporary and recorded an impairment charge of $ 83 million in 2018. as of december 31, 2019 , the carrying value of the company's investment in alexander forbes was approximately $ 144 million . as of december 31, 2019 , the market value of the approximately 443 million shares of alexander forbes owned by the company, based on the december 31, 2019 closing share price of 5.55 south african rand per share, was approximately $173 million . see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the pending sale of the company's remaining investment in af. other a number of lawsuits and regulatory proceedings are pending. see note 16 ("claims, lawsuits and other contingencies") to the consolidated financial statements included in this report. 55quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. information under the heading "market risk" on pages 31 and 32 of the 2000 annual report is incorporated herein by reference.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. information under the heading "market risk" on pages 32 and 33 of the 2001 annual report is incorporated herein by reference.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the information under the heading "market risk" on page 31 of the 2002 annual report is incorporated herein by reference.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the information under the heading "market risk" on pages 27 to 28 of the 2003 annual report is incorporated herein by reference.risk factors you should consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information presented in this report. these risks have the potential to materially adversely affect mmc business, results of operations or financial condition. risks relating to mmc generally senior management transition our success depends in part on successful transitions in mmc and marsh senior leadership. mmc and its insurance services subsidiary marsh are both in the midst of senior leadership transitions. mmc announced the departure of marsh prior chief executive officer in september 2007, and announced the appointment of daniel s. glaser as marsh new chief executive officer in december 2007. mmc announced the departure of mmc prior chief executive officer in december 2007, and announced the appointment of brian duperreault as mmc new chief executive officer in january 2008. mmc and marsh future performance will depend in part on the ability of messrs. duperreault and glaser and their respective senior management teams, which include newly hired executives in some positions, to develop and successfully implement their business strategies. legal and regulatory issues we are subject to legal proceedings and other contingencies which, if determined unfavorably to us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. as more fully described in note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included under part ii, item 8 of this report, we are subject to a number of legal proceedings, regulatory actions and other contingencies. an adverse outcome in connection with one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition in any given quarterly or annual period. in addition, regardless of any eventual monetary costs, these matters could have a material adverse effect on mmc by exposing us to negative publicity, reputational damage, harm to our client or employee relationships, or diversion of personnel and management resources. we are subject to significant uninsured exposures arising from errors and omissions claims. mmc operating companies provide numerous brokerage, consulting and other services for clients around the world. as a result of these activities, we are potentially subject to errors and omissions, or e&amp;o, claims by clients and third parties who may allege that they were damaged as a result of mmc failure to perform its duties as expected. these claims in any given case might be significant and could subject mmc, in addition to potential liability for monetary damages, to reputational harm and diversion of personnel and management resources. since 2001, the worldwide market for professional liability insurance against e&amp;o claims has contracted significantly, which has caused mmc to assume increasing levels of self-insurance for its potential e&amp;o exposures. mmc has established loss reserves which it believes are adequate to provide for this self-insured retention. nevertheless, given the unpredictability of e&amp;o claims and of litigation that could flow from them, it is possible that an adverse outcome in a particular matter could have a material adverse effect on mmc results of operations or financial condition in a given quarterly or annual period. actions by regulatory authorities or changes in legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate may have an adverse effect on our business. our activities are subject to extensive regulation under the laws of the united states and its various states, the european union and its member states, and the other jurisdictions in which we 13 table of contents operate. some of this regulation has only recently been instituted; for example, in january 2005, our insurance and reinsurance services activities, as well as certain of our consulting activities, in the united kingdom came under the jurisdiction of the financial services authority. certain of the u.s. laws and regulations to which we are subject relate to the conduct of business abroad by american companies; examples are the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the rules relating to trade sanctions administered by the u.s. office of foreign assets control. in most jurisdictions, government regulatory authorities have the power to interpret or amend applicable laws and regulations, and have discretion to grant, renew and revoke various licenses and approvals we need to conduct our activities. if we violate applicable laws or regulations in a particular jurisdiction, we might be subject to adverse consequences, such as the loss of an operating license or approval, the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in a particular business, redress to clients or fines. in some areas of our businesses, we act on the basis of our own or the industry interpretations of applicable laws or regulations, which may conflict from state to state or country to country. in the event those interpretations eventually prove different from those of regulatory authorities, we might be penalized or precluded from carrying on our previous activities. any significant impairment of our ability to conduct our business as we historically have done could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. improper disclosure of personal data could result in legal liability or harm our reputation. one of our significant responsibilities is to maintain the security and privacy of our clients confidential and proprietary information and the personal data of their employees and plan participants. we maintain policies, procedures and technological safeguards designed to protect the security and privacy of this information. nonetheless, we cannot entirely eliminate the risk of improper access to or disclosure of personally identifiable information. such disclosure could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under our contracts and laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. further, data privacy is subject to frequently changing rules and regulations, which sometimes conflict among the various jurisdictions and countries in which we provide services. our failure to adhere to or successfully implement processes in response to changing regulatory requirements in this area could result in legal liability or impairment to our reputation in the marketplace. international operations we are exposed to multiple risks associated with the global nature of our operations. we do business worldwide. in 2007, 51 percent of mmc total operating segments revenue was generated from operations outside the united states, and over one-half of our employees are located abroad. we expect to expand our non-u.s. operations further. the geographic breadth of our activities subjects us to significant legal, economic, operational and market risks. these include, among others, risks relating to: economic and political conditions in foreign countries; local investment or other financial restrictions that foreign governments may impose; potential costs and difficulties in complying, or monitoring compliance, with rules relating to trade sanctions administered by the u.s. office of foreign assets control, the requirements of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, or other u.s. laws and regulations applicable to business operations abroad; limitations that foreign governments may impose on the conversion of currency or the payment of dividends or other remittances to us from our non-u.s. subsidiaries; withholding or other taxes that foreign governments may impose on the payment of dividends or other remittances to us from our non-u.s. subsidiaries; the length of payment cycles and potential difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; engaging and relying on third parties to perform services on behalf of mmc; potential difficulties in monitoring employees in geographically dispersed locations; and 14 table of contents potential costs and difficulties in complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations (including tax systems) administered by foreign government agencies, some of which may conflict with u.s. or other sources of law. in addition, we are subject to exchange rate risk because some of our subsidiaries receive revenue other than in their functional currencies, and because we generally must translate the financial results of our foreign subsidiaries into u.s. dollars. for example, most of mmc total operating segments revenue generated outside of the u.s. is denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. as a consequence, significant changes in exchange rates may have a material effect on our reported financial results for any given period. competitive risks each of mmc businesses operates in a highly competitive environment. if we fail to compete effectively, our business and results of operations will suffer. as a global professional services firm, mmc experiences acute and continuous competition in each of its operating segments. our ability to compete successfully depends on a variety of factors, including our geographic reach, the sophistication and quality of our services, and our pricing relative to our competitors. if we are unable to respond successfully to the competition we face, our business and results of operations will suffer. in our risk and insurance services segment, we compete intensely against two other major global brokerage firms, aon and willis, for both client business and employee talent. we also face competition from a wide range of other insurance brokerage firms that operate on a regional, national or local scale; many of these firms, unlike marsh, aon and willis, have not stopped using market service arrangements, and thus may have greater pricing flexibility than we do. we compete as well with insurance and reinsurance companies that market and service their insurance products without the assistance of brokers or other market intermediaries, and with various other companies that provide risk-related services. the above competition is intensified by an emerging industry trend toward a syndicated or distributed approach to the purchase of insurance brokerage services, whereby a client engages multiple brokers to service different portions of the client account. in our consulting and risk consulting and technology segments, we compete for business and employee talent with numerous independent consulting firms and organizations affiliated with accounting, information systems, technology and financial services firms around the world. kroll also competes with law firms for certain of its services. the loss of key professionals could hurt our ability to retain existing client revenues and generate revenues from new business. across all of our businesses, our personnel are crucial to developing and retaining the client relationships on which our revenues depend. it is therefore very important for us to retain significant revenue-producing employees and the key managerial and other professionals who support them. we face numerous challenges in this regard, including: the intense competition for talent in all of our businesses; the general mobility of professionals in our businesses; and the difficulties we may face in offering compensation of a type and amount (including equity-based compensation) sufficient to attract, motivate and retain valuable employees. losing employees who manage or support substantial client relationships or possess substantial experience or expertise could adversely affect our ability to secure and complete client engagements, which would adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, if any of our key professionals were to join an existing competitor or form a competing company, some of our clients could choose to use the services of that competitor instead of our services. 15 table of contents our businesses face rapid technological changes and our failure to adequately anticipate or respond to these changes could adversely affect our business and results of operations. to remain competitive in many of our business areas, we must identify the most current technologies and methodologies and integrate them into our service offerings. for example, guy carpenter risk-modeling services are increasingly dependent on implementing advanced software and data-compilation tools; kroll e-discovery business depends on advanced search technology and computerized document processing; and mercer ability to price its outsourcing services competitively is highly dependent on technology. if we do not make the correct technology choices or investments, or if our choices or investments are insufficiently prompt or cost-effective, our business and results of operations could suffer. financial risks credit rating downgrades could negatively affect our financing costs and subject us to operational risk. both moody and standard &amp; poor downgraded mmc senior debt credit rating in late 2004 and s&amp;p announced a further downgrade in december 2007. currently, mmc senior debt is rated baa2 by moody and bbb- by s&amp;p. these ratings are the next-to-lowest investment grade rating for moody s, and the lowest investment-grade rating for s&amp;p. if we need to raise capital in the future (for example, in order to fund maturing debt obligations or finance acquisitions or other initiatives), any further credit rating downgrade could negatively affect our financing costs, and likely would limit our access to financing sources. further, we believe that a downgrade to a rating below investment-grade could result in greater operational risks through increased operating costs and increased competitive pressures. our pension obligations may cause mmc earnings to fluctuate. mmc has significant pension obligations to its current and former employees, totaling approximately $10 billion at december 31, 2007. the magnitude of our worldwide pension plans means that our earnings are comparatively sensitive to factors such as equity and bond market returns, the assumed interest rates we use to discount our pension liabilities, rates of inflation and mortality assumptions. variations in any of these factors could cause significant fluctuation in our earnings from year to year. acquisitions and dispositions we face risks when we acquire and dispose of businesses. we have a history of making acquisitions, including our $1.9 billion acquisition of kroll in july 2004 and a total of 31 acquisitions in the period 2005-2007 for aggregate purchase consideration of $427 million. we have also exited various businesses, including putnam in august 2007. we expect that targeted acquisitions and dispositions will continue to be part of our business strategy. our success in this regard will depend on our ability to identify appropriate acquisition and disposition candidates and to complete with favorable results the transactions we decide to pursue. while we intend that our acquisitions will improve our competitiveness and profitability, we cannot be certain that our past or future acquisitions will be accretive to earnings or otherwise meet our operational or strategic expectations. acquisitions involve special risks, including the potential assumption of unanticipated liabilities and contingencies and difficulties in integrating acquired businesses, and acquired businesses may not achieve the levels of revenue, profit or productivity we anticipate or otherwise perform as we expect. in addition, if the operating performance of an acquired business deteriorates significantly, we may need to write down the value of the goodwill and other acquisition-related intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet. given the significant size of mmc goodwill and intangible assets, a write-down of this sort could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any given period. as of december 31, 2007, mmc consolidated balance sheet reflected $7.8 billion of goodwill and intangible assets, representing approximately 45 percent of mmc total consolidated assets and allocated by reporting segment as follows: risk and insurance services, $3.8 billion; consulting, $1.9 billion; and risk consulting &amp; technology, $1.7 billion. 16 table of contents when we dispose of businesses we are subject to the risk, contractually agreed or otherwise, of post-transaction liabilities. for example, as described in note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included under part ii, item 8 of this report, we have retained certain contingent litigation liabilities relating to putnam. risks relating to our risk and insurance services segment our risk and insurance services segment, conducted through marsh and guy carpenter and including risk capital holdings, represented 49 percent of mmc total operating segments revenue in 2007. our business in this segment is subject to particular risks. volatility or declines in premiums and other market trends may significantly impede our ability to improve revenues and profitability. a significant portion of our risk and insurance services revenue consists of commissions paid to us out of the premiums that insurers and reinsurers charge our clients for coverage. we have no control over premium rates, and our revenues and profitability are subject to change to the extent that premium rates fluctuate or trend in a particular direction. the potential for changes in premium rates is significant, due to the general phenomenon of pricing cyclicality in the commercial insurance and reinsurance markets. for example, for several years through late 2000, competition among insurers for market share and increased underwriting capacity helped create a so-called soft market, in which premium rates were driven downward and marsh and guy carpenter commission revenues were pressured. subsequently, due in part to the events of september 11, 2001, the insurance industry transitioned into a hard market, in which premium rates increased. these rate increases continued until 2005, at which point average u.s. commercial property-casualty rates began to decline on a year-over-year basis. according to industry sources, these soft market conditions have continued and generally intensified through the end of 2007. in addition to movements in premium rates, our ability to generate premium-based commission revenue may be challenged by the growing availability of alternative methods for clients to meet their risk-protection needs. this trend includes a greater willingness on the part of corporations to self-insure; the use of so-called captive insurers; and the advent of capital markets-based solutions to traditional insurance and reinsurance needs. we may not be as successful as we hope in implementing marsh evolving business model and otherwise coping with changing modes of compensation in the insurance brokerage industry. since late 2004, marsh has made significant changes to its business model, including the elimination of market service agreements with insurers. the elimination of market service revenue has negatively affected our financial results. in 2004, we recognized market service revenue of $516 million, relating to insurance placements made before october 1, 2004. by contrast, in 2005, 2006 and 2007 respectively, we recognized $114 million, $43 million and $3 million of market service revenue relating to placements made before october 1, 2004. although aon and willis have similarly terminated the use of market service agreements, many specialist, regional and local insurance brokers have not. to date, there has been no regulatory action to end the use of market service arrangements throughout the brokerage industry, and it is therefore unclear to what extent many of our competitors will continue to accept market service or contingent commission revenue. it is possible that marsh will continue indefinitely to suffer competitive disadvantage compared to the brokers that have not given up the use of market service arrangements. if that occurs, marsh would continue to face pressure on its revenues, operating margin and market share. in addition to the possibility of continued competitive disadvantage as described above, marsh faces risks relating to the implementation of its post-2004 business model. marsh currently seeks to increase revenue through higher commissions and fees that are disclosed to its clients, and to generate profitable revenue growth by focusing on the provision of value-added risk advisory services 17 table of contents beyond traditional brokerage activities. marsh current business and compensation model continues to evolve and in some respects remains untested. we cannot be certain that it will generate the profitable revenue growth we are targeting. the inability to derive adequate revenues from marsh current business and compensation model may significantly impede improvement in our operating results and profitability. our operating income and margins in risk and insurance services may be affected by quarterly changes in the value of risk capital holdings investments in private equity funds. through its risk and insurance services subsidiary risk capital holdings, mmc owns, among other investments, minority interests in certain private equity funds. risk capital holdings records as revenue its proportionate share of changes in the quarterly fair value of these funds underlying investments. these changes in value, the size and timing of which risk capital holdings generally does not control, can have a significant effect on risk and insurance services revenue from one quarter to another. in turn, because a large proportion of risk capital holdings revenues flow directly to net operating income in risk and insurance services, changes in the value of risk capital holdings private equity fund investments can have a significant effect on segment operating income and margins from quarter to quarter. results in our risk and insurance services segment may be adversely affected by a general decline in economic activity. demand for many types of insurance and reinsurance generally rises and falls as economic growth expands or slows. this dynamic affects the level of commissions and fees generated by marsh and guy carpenter. to the extent our clients become adversely affected by declining business conditions, they may choose to limit their purchases of insurance coverage, which would inhibit our ability to generate commission revenue; and may decide not to purchase our risk advisory services, which would inhibit our ability to generate fee revenue. moreover, a growing number of insolvencies associated with an economic downturn, especially insolvencies in the insurance industry, could adversely affect our brokerage business through the loss of clients or by hampering our ability to place insurance and reinsurance business. risks relating to our consulting and risk consulting and technology segments our consulting segment, conducted through mercer and oliver wyman group, represented 43 percent of our total operating segments revenue in 2007. our risk consulting and technology segment, conducted through kroll, represented 9 percent of our total operating segments revenue in 2007. our businesses in these two segments are subject to particular risks. demand for our services might decrease for various reasons, including a general economic downturn, a decline in a client or an industry financial condition, or changes in government regulation. our consulting and risk consulting and technology segments generally have achieved significant revenue growth over the last three years. despite this history, however, we cannot be certain that demand for our consulting and risk consulting and technology services will continue to grow. the evolving needs or financial circumstances of our clients also may challenge our ability to increase revenues and profitability; in particular, economic downturns affecting particular clients or industry groups could reduce demand for our services. in addition, demand for many of mercer benefits services is affected by government regulation and tax rules, which drive our clients needs for benefits-related services. for example, significant changes in government regulations affecting the value, use or delivery of benefits and human resources programs, including changes in regulations relating to health and welfare plans, defined contribution plans, or defined benefit plans, may adversely affect the demand for or profitability of mercer services. 18 table of contents our profitability may suffer if we are unable to achieve or maintain adequate utilization and pricing rates for our consultants. the profitability of our consulting and risk consulting and technology businesses depends in part on ensuring that our consultants maintain adequate utilization rates (i.e., the percentage of our consultants working hours devoted to billable activities). our utilization rates are affected by a number of factors, including: our ability to transition consultants promptly from completed projects to new assignments, and to engage newly hired consultants quickly in revenue-generating activities; our ability to continually secure new business engagements, particularly because a portion of our work is project-based rather than recurring in nature; our ability to forecast demand for our services and thereby maintain an appropriate headcount in each of our geographies and workforces; unanticipated changes in the scope of client engagements; the potential for conflicts of interest that might require us to decline client engagements that we otherwise would have accepted; and our need to devote time and resources to sales, training, professional development and other non-billable activities. in recent periods, we have maintained a utilization rate that is high by our historical standards. we cannot be certain that we will maintain this level of utilization in future periods, particularly if economic growth slows. if the utilization rate for our consulting professionals were to decline, our profit margin and profitability could suffer. in addition, the profitability of our consulting and risk consulting and technology businesses depends on the prices we are able to charge for our services. our pricing power is affected by a number of factors, including: clients perception of our ability to add value through our services; market demand for the services we provide; our ability to develop new services and the introduction of new services by competitors; the pricing policies of our competitors; changes in the extent to which our clients develop in-house or other capabilities to perform the services that they might otherwise purchase from us; and general economic conditions. if we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate billing rates for our consultants, our profit margin and profitability could suffer. our quarterly revenues and profitability may fluctuate significantly. quarterly variations in mercer s, oliver wyman group and kroll revenues and operating results may occur due to several factors. these include: the significance of client engagements commenced and completed during a quarter; the unpredictability of the timing and amount of success fees; the possibility that clients may decide to delay or terminate a current or anticipated project as a result of factors unrelated to our work product or progress; fluctuations in consultant hiring and utilization rates and clients ability to terminate engagements without penalty; seasonality at mercer due to the impact of regulatory deadlines and other timing factors to which our clients are subject; 19 table of contents the success of our strategic acquisitions, alliances or investments; and general economic conditions, since results of operations in our consulting and risk consulting and technology businesses are directly affected by the levels of business activity of our clients, which in turn are affected by the level of economic activity in the industries and markets that they serve. a significant portion of total operating expenses at mercer, oliver wyman group and kroll is relatively fixed. therefore, a variation in the number of client assignments or in the timing of the initiation or the completion of client assignments can cause significant variations in quarterly operating results for these businesses. acceleration of the shift by employers from defined benefit plans to defined contribution plans could adversely affect mercer operating results. mercer currently provides clients with actuarial and consulting services relating to both defined benefit and defined contribution plans. defined benefit pension plans generally require more services than defined contribution plans because defined benefit plans typically involve large asset pools, complex calculations to determine employer costs, funding requirements and sophisticated analysis to match liabilities and assets over long periods of time. recent regulatory initiatives in the united states and certain european countries may result in companies either discontinuing or curtailing defined benefit programs in favor of defined contribution plans. if organizations shift to defined contribution plans more rapidly than we anticipate and we do not successfully adjust our service offerings to take account of that change, mercer operating results could be adversely affected. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. see the information set forth under the heading market risk and credit risk above under part ii, item 7 ( management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations ). 42 table of contentsrisk factors you should consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information presented in this report. these risks have the potential to materially adversely affect mmc business, results of operations or financial condition. risks relating to mmc generally legal and regulatory issues we are subject to legal proceedings and other contingencies which, if determined unfavorably to us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. as more fully described in note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included under part ii, item 8 of this report, we are subject to a number of legal proceedings, regulatory actions and other contingencies. an adverse outcome in connection with one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition in any given quarterly or annual period. in addition, regardless of any eventual monetary costs, these matters could have a material adverse effect on mmc by exposing us to negative publicity, reputational damage, harm to our client or employee relationships, or diversion of personnel and management resources. we are subject to significant uninsured exposures arising from errors and omissions claims. mmc operating companies provide numerous brokerage, consulting, actuarial and other services for clients around the world. as a result of these activities, we are subject to errors and omissions, or e&amp;o, claims by clients and third parties who allege that they were damaged as a result of the operating company alleged failure to perform its services as expected, such as those claims alleged in separate lawsuits by the alaska retirement management board and milwaukee county against mercer. certain e&amp;o claims seek damages, including punitive damages, in amounts that could, if awarded, be significant and subject mmc, in addition to potential liability for monetary damages, to reputational harm and diversion of personnel and management resources. as described below, for certain policy years, we have limited third party insurance for e&amp;o matters, including the alaska retirement management board and milwaukee county matters. mmc has varying levels of third party insurance coverage against e&amp;o claims, depending on the policy year. to the extent that expected losses exceed mmc retention in any policy year, mmc records a liability and an asset for the amount that mmc expects to recover under its third-party insurance programs. the policy limits and coverage terms of the third-party insurance vary to some extent by policy year, but mmc is not aware of coverage defenses or other obstacles to coverage that would limit recoveries in years prior to policy year 2001-2002 in a material amount. in policy years subsequent to 2001-2002, the availability of third-party insurance has declined significantly, which has caused mmc to assume increasing levels of self-insurance for its potential e&amp;o exposures. mmc utilizes internal actuarial and other estimates, and case level reviews by inside and outside counsel, to establish loss reserves, in accordance with sfas no. 5 ( accounting for contingencies ), to provide for its loss retention. these reserves are reviewed quarterly and adjusted as developments warrant. nevertheless, given the unpredictability of e&amp;o claims and of litigation that could flow from them, it is possible that an adverse outcome in a particular matter could have a material adverse effect on mmc results of operations, financial condition or cash flow in a given quarterly or annual period. our compliance systems and controls cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially applicable u.s. federal and state or foreign laws and regulations, and actions by regulatory authorities or changes in legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate may have an adverse effect on our business. our activities are subject to extensive regulation under the laws of the united states and its various states, the european union and its member states, and the other jurisdictions in which we 14 table of contents operate. for example, our insurance and reinsurance services activities, as well as certain of our consulting and related activities, in the united kingdom are under the jurisdiction of the financial services authority. compliance with foreign and u.s. laws and regulations that are applicable to our international operations is complex and may increase our cost of doing business in international jurisdictions. these laws and regulations include import and export requirements, u.s. laws such as the foreign corrupt practices act, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials. while we attempt to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that we, our employees, our consultants or our contractors are in full compliance with all applicable laws and regulations or interpretations of these laws and regulations at all times or that we will be able to comply with any future laws, regulations or interpretations of these laws and regulations. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including those referred to above, we may be subject to investigations, criminal sanctions or civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, loss of an operating license or approval, the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in a particular business or redress to clients. the cost of compliance or the consequences of non-compliance could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. in addition, these matters could have a material adverse effect on mmc by exposing us to negative publicity, reputational damage or harm to our client or employee relationships. in most jurisdictions, government regulatory authorities have the power to interpret or amend applicable laws and regulations, and have discretion to grant, renew and revoke various licenses and approvals we need to conduct our activities. such authorities may require mmc to incur substantial increases in costs in order to comply with such laws and regulations. in some areas of our businesses, we act on the basis of our own or the industry interpretations of applicable laws or regulations, which may conflict from state to state or country to country. in the event those interpretations eventually prove different from those of regulatory authorities, we might be penalized or precluded from carrying on our previous activities. moreover, the laws and regulations to which we are subject may conflict among the various jurisdictions and countries in which we provide services. any significant impairment of our ability to conduct our business as we historically have done could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. finally, government involvement in the insurance or reinsurance markets could displace insurance or reinsurance currently available from the private market and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. improper disclosure of personal data could result in legal liability or harm our reputation. one of our significant responsibilities is to maintain the security and privacy of our clients confidential and proprietary information and the personal data of their employees and retirement and other benefit plan participants. we maintain policies, procedures and technological safeguards designed to protect the security and privacy of this information. nonetheless, we cannot entirely eliminate the risk of improper access to or disclosure of personally identifiable information. such disclosure could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under our contracts and laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. further, data privacy is subject to frequently changing rules and regulations, which sometimes conflict among the various jurisdictions and countries in which we provide services. our failure to adhere to or successfully implement processes in response to changing regulatory requirements in this area could result in legal liability or impairment to our reputation in the marketplace. international operations we are exposed to multiple risks associated with the global nature of our operations. we do business worldwide. in 2008, 54 percent of mmc total operating segment revenue was generated from operations outside the united states, and over one-half of our employees are located abroad. we expect to expand our non-u.s. operations further. 15 table of contents the geographic breadth of our activities subjects us to significant legal, economic, operational, market and reputational risks. these include, among others, risks relating to: economic and political conditions in foreign countries, including the recent disruption in the global financial markets; international hostilities, terrorist activities, natural disasters and infrastructure disruptions; local investment or other financial restrictions that foreign governments may impose; potential costs and difficulties in complying, or monitoring compliance, with rules relating to trade sanctions administered by the u.s. office of foreign assets control, the requirements of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, or other u.s. laws and regulations applicable to business operations abroad; limitations that foreign governments may impose on the conversion of currency or the payment of dividends or other remittances to us from our non-u.s. subsidiaries; withholding or other taxes that foreign governments may impose on the payment of dividends or other remittances to us from our non-u.s. subsidiaries; potential transfer pricing-related tax exposures that may result from the allocation of u.s.-based costs that benefit our non-u.s. businesses; the length of payment cycles and potential difficulties in collecting accounts receivable, particularly in light of the increasing number of insolvencies in the current economic environment and the numerous bankruptcy laws to which they are subject; engaging and relying on third parties to perform services on behalf of mmc; potential difficulties in monitoring employees in geographically dispersed locations; and potential costs and difficulties in complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations (including tax systems) administered by foreign government agencies, some of which may conflict with u.s. or other sources of law. our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem could cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as an earthquake, hurricane, terrorist attack, pandemic, security breach, power loss, telecommunications failure or other natural or man-made disaster, our continued success will depend, in part, on the availability of our personnel, our office facilities, and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. in such an event, our operational size, the multiple locations from which we operate, and our existing back-up systems would provide us with an important advantage. nevertheless, we could still experience near-term operational challenges with regard to particular areas of our operations, such as key executive officers or personnel. our operations, particularly within our consulting and risk consulting and technology segments, are dependent upon our ability to protect our technology infrastructure against damage from business continuity events that could have a significant disruptive effect on our operations. we could potentially lose client data or experience material adverse interruptions to our operations or delivery of services to our clients in a disaster recovery scenario. we regularly assess and take steps to improve upon our existing business continuity plans and key management succession. however, a disaster on a significant scale or affecting certain of our key operating areas within or across regions, or our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem, could materially interrupt our business operations and cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, damaged client relationships or legal liability. 16 table of contents competitive risks each of mmc businesses operates in a highly competitive environment. if we fail to compete effectively, our business and results of operations will suffer. as a global professional services firm, mmc experiences acute and continuous competition in each of its operating segments. our ability to compete successfully depends on a variety of factors, including our geographic reach, the sophistication and quality of our services, and our pricing relative to our competitors. if we are unable to respond successfully to the competition we face, our business and results of operations will suffer. in our risk and insurance services segment, we compete intensely against two other major global brokerage firms, aon and willis, for both client business and employee talent. we also face competition from a wide range of other insurance brokerage firms that operate on a regional, national or local scale; many of these firms, unlike marsh, aon and willis, have not stopped accepting contingent commissions, and thus may have greater pricing flexibility than we do. we compete as well with insurance and reinsurance companies that market and service their insurance products without the assistance of brokers or other market intermediaries, and with various other companies that provide risk-related services. the above competition is intensified by an industry trend toward a syndicated or distributed approach to the purchase of insurance brokerage services, whereby a client engages multiple brokers to service different portions of the client account. in our consulting and risk consulting and technology segments, we compete for business and employee talent with numerous independent consulting firms and organizations affiliated with accounting, information systems, technology and financial services firms around the world. kroll also competes with law firms for certain of its services. the loss of key professionals could hurt our ability to retain existing client revenues and generate revenues from new business. across all of our businesses, our personnel are crucial to developing and retaining the client relationships on which our revenues depend. it is therefore very important for us to retain significant revenue-producing employees and the key managerial and other professionals who support them. we face numerous challenges in this regard, including: the intense competition for talent in all of our businesses; the general mobility of professionals in our businesses; and the difficulties we may face in offering compensation of a type and amount (including equity-based compensation) sufficient to attract, motivate and retain valuable employees. losing employees who manage or support substantial client relationships or possess substantial experience or expertise could adversely affect our ability to secure and complete client engagements, which would adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, if any of our key professionals were to join an existing competitor or form a competing company, some of our clients could choose to use the services of that competitor instead of our services. consolidation in the industries that we serve could adversely affect our business. particularly in the current economic environment, companies in the industries that we serve may seek to achieve economies of scale and other synergies by combining with or acquiring other companies. if two or more of our current clients merge or consolidate and combine their operations, it may decrease the amount of work that we perform for these clients. if one of our current clients merges or consolidates with a company that relies on another provider for its services, we may lose work from that client or lose the opportunity to gain additional work. the increased market power of larger companies could also increase pricing and competitive pressures on us. any of these possible results of industry consolidation could adversely affect our business. guy carpenter is especially susceptible to this risk given the limited number of insurance company clients and reinsurers in the marketplace. 17 table of contents our businesses face rapid technological changes and our failure to adequately anticipate or respond to these changes could adversely affect our business and results of operations. to remain competitive in many of our business areas, we must identify the most current technologies and methodologies and integrate them into our service offerings. for example, guy carpenter risk-modeling services are increasingly dependent on implementing advanced software and data-compilation tools; kroll e-discovery business depends on advanced search technology and computerized document processing; and mercer ability to price its outsourcing services competitively is highly dependent on the efficient and cost effective use of technology. if we do not make the correct technology choices or investments, or if our choices or investments are insufficiently prompt or cost-effective, our business and results of operations could suffer. financial risks our results of operations could be adversely affected by economic and political conditions and the effects of these conditions on our clients businesses and levels of business activity. global economic and political conditions affect our clients businesses and the markets they serve. recently, the credit markets and the financial services industry have been experiencing a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the united states and foreign governments. these economic conditions have resulted in negative impacts on businesses and financial institutions, and financial services entities in particular. the current global economic crisis is having a significant effect on our consulting and risk consulting and technology segments in particular. many of our clients have been reducing expenses, including amounts they spend on consulting services. if these economic conditions persist or deteriorate, they could potentially have a significant impact on our operations. these economic conditions may reduce demand for our services or depress pricing of those services, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. changes in global economic conditions could also shift demand to services for which we do not have competitive advantages, and this could negatively affect the amount of business that we are able to obtain. should it become necessary for us to further restructure our business, including reducing our work force, as a result of these market conditions or other factors that reduce the demand for our products and services, our ability to execute our business strategy could be adversely affected. financial institution failures may cause us to incur increased expenses or make it more difficult either to utilize our existing debt capacity or otherwise obtain financing for our operations, investing activities (including the financing of any future acquisitions), or financing activities. our cash investments, including those held in a fiduciary capacity, are subject to general credit, liquidity, counterparty, market and interest rate risks that may be exacerbated by the recent global financial crisis. if the banking system or the fixed income, credit or equity markets continue to deteriorate or remain volatile, the values and liquidity of our investments could be adversely affected. our significant non-u.s. operations expose us to exchange rate fluctuations and various risks that could impact our business. we are subject to exchange rate risk because some of our subsidiaries receive revenue other than in their functional currencies, and because we must translate the financial results of our foreign subsidiaries into u.s. dollars. our u.s. operations earn revenue and incur expenses primarily in u.s. dollars. in certain jurisdictions (primarily the united kingdom), however, our risk and insurance services operations generate revenue in a number of different currencies, but expenses are almost entirely incurred in local currency. due to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, we are subject to economic exposure as well as currency translation exposure on the profits of our operations. exchange rate risk could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. 18 table of contents changes in interest rates and increased counterparty risk could reduce the value of our investment portfolio and adversely affect our financial condition or results. the recent failures, bankruptcies, rescues and distressed acquisitions of previously highly rated financial institutions indicate a possibly dramatic realignment of companies in the financial services sector and reflect the market lack of a clear understanding of the financial health of financial institutions. many widely-held investments previously rated investment grade have declined in value precipitously and unexpectedly in recent months, resulting in substantial trading and investment losses for corporate and other investors. in order to avoid these risks, investors have favored securities issued, guaranteed or supported by the u.s. or international governments, which has resulted in reduced yields on these and other investments considered to be lower risk. although we generally employ a conservative investment strategy with respect to our cash investments, including those held in a fiduciary capacity, we may incur investment losses as a result of these unusual and unpredictable market developments and we may experience reduced investment earnings if the yields on investments deemed to be low risk remain low or decline further in this time of economic uncertainty. credit rating downgrades would increase our financing costs and could subject us to operational risk. both moody and standard &amp; poor downgraded mmc senior debt credit rating in late 2004 and s&amp;p announced a further downgrade in december 2007. currently, mmc senior debt is rated baa2 by moody and bbb- by s&amp;p. these ratings are the next-to-lowest investment grade rating for moody s, and the lowest investment-grade rating for s&amp;p. if we need to raise capital in the future (for example, in order to fund maturing debt obligations or finance acquisitions or other initiatives), any further credit rating downgrade would increase our financing costs, and could limit our access to financing sources. further, we believe that a downgrade to a rating below investment-grade could result in greater operational risks through increased operating costs and increased competitive pressures. our pension obligations may cause mmc earnings and cash flows to fluctuate. mmc has significant pension obligations to its current and former employees, totaling approximately $8.5 billion at december 31, 2008. the magnitude of our worldwide pension plans means that our earnings are comparatively sensitive to factors such as equity and bond market returns, the assumed interest rates we use to discount our pension liabilities, rates of inflation and mortality assumptions. variations in any of these factors could cause significant fluctuation in our earnings from year to year and may result in increased levels of contributions to our pension plans. acquisitions and dispositions we face risks when we acquire and dispose of businesses. we have a history of making acquisitions, including our $1.9 billion acquisition of kroll in july 2004 and a total of 44 acquisitions in the period 2005-2008 for aggregate purchase consideration of $593 million. we have also exited various businesses, including the sale of putnam in august 2007 and the divestiture of three separate restructuring businesses one in the u.s. and two in the u.k. in 2008. we expect that targeted acquisitions and dispositions will continue to be part of our business strategy. our success in this regard will depend on our ability to identify appropriate acquisition and disposition candidates and to complete with favorable results the transactions we decide to pursue. while we intend that our acquisitions will improve our competitiveness and profitability, we cannot be certain that our past or future acquisitions will be accretive to earnings or otherwise meet our operational or strategic expectations. acquisitions involve special risks, including the potential assumption of unanticipated liabilities and contingencies and difficulties in integrating acquired businesses, and acquired businesses may not achieve the levels of revenue, profit or productivity we anticipate or otherwise perform as we expect. in addition, if the operating performance of an acquired business deteriorates significantly, we may need to write down the value of the goodwill and other acquisition-related intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet. given the significant size of 19 table of contents mmc goodwill and intangible assets, a write-down of this sort could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any given period. as of december 31, 2008, mmc consolidated balance sheet reflected $7.2 billion of goodwill and intangible assets, representing approximately 47 percent of mmc total consolidated assets and allocated by reporting segment as follows: risk and insurance services, $3.7 billion; consulting, $2 billion; and risk consulting and technology, $1.1 billion. when we dispose of businesses we are subject to the risk, contractually agreed or otherwise, of post-transaction liabilities. for example, as described in note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included under part ii, item 8 of this report, we have retained certain contingent litigation liabilities relating to putnam. risks relating to our risk and insurance services segment our risk and insurance services segment, conducted through marsh and guy carpenter, represented 47 percent of mmc total operating segment revenue in 2008. our business in this segment is subject to particular risks. volatility or declines in premiums and other market trends may significantly impede our ability to improve revenues and profitability. a significant portion of our risk and insurance services revenue consists of commissions paid to us out of the premiums that insurers and reinsurers charge our clients for coverage. we have no control over premium rates, and our revenues and profitability are subject to change to the extent that premium rates fluctuate or trend in a particular direction. the potential for changes in premium rates is significant, due to the general phenomenon of pricing cyclicality in the commercial insurance and reinsurance markets. in addition to movements in premium rates, our ability to generate premium-based commission revenue may be challenged by the growing availability of alternative methods for clients to meet their risk-protection needs. this trend includes a greater willingness on the part of corporations to self-insure; the use of so-called captive insurers; and the advent of capital markets-based solutions to traditional insurance and reinsurance needs. we may not be as successful as we hope in implementing marsh evolving business model and otherwise coping with changing modes of compensation in the insurance brokerage industry. in late 2004, marsh made significant changes to its business model, including the elimination of market service/contingent commission agreements with insurers. the elimination of market service revenue has negatively affected our financial results. in 2004, we recognized market service revenue of $516 million, relating to insurance placements made before october 1, 2004. by contrast, in 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008 respectively, we recognized $114 million, $43 million, $3 million and $1.7 million of market service revenue relating to placements made before october 1, 2004. in addition to lost revenue, marsh has and will likely continue to incur significant costs to ensure compliance with this business model and to provide disclosure relating thereto. although other large insurance brokers have similarly terminated the use of contingent commission agreements, many specialist, regional and local insurance brokers have not. to date, there has been no regulatory action to end the use of contingent commission arrangements throughout the brokerage industry, and it is therefore unclear to what extent many of our competitors will continue to accept contingent commission revenue. it is possible that marsh will continue indefinitely to suffer competitive disadvantage compared to the brokers that have not given up the use of contingent commission arrangements. if that occurs, marsh would continue to face pressure on its revenues, operating margin and market share. 20 table of contents in addition to the possibility of continued competitive disadvantage as described above, marsh faces risks relating to the implementation of its new business model. marsh is currently seeking to increase revenue through higher commissions and fees that are disclosed to its clients, and to generate profitable revenue growth by focusing on the provision of value-added risk advisory services beyond traditional brokerage activities. marsh current business and compensation model continues to evolve and in some respects remains untested, including marsh creation of placement hubs and the launch of marsh &amp; mclennan agency for the small and emerging growth sector. we cannot be certain that it will generate the profitable revenue growth we are targeting. the inability to derive adequate revenues from marsh current business and compensation model may significantly impede improvement in our operating results and profitability. results in our risk and insurance services segment may be adversely affected by a general decline in economic activity. demand for many types of insurance and reinsurance generally rises and falls as economic growth expands or slows. this dynamic affects the level of commissions and fees generated by marsh and guy carpenter. to the extent our clients become adversely affected by declining business conditions, they may choose to limit their purchases of insurance and reinsurance coverage, as applicable, which would inhibit our ability to generate commission revenue; and may decide not to purchase our risk advisory services, which would inhibit our ability to generate fee revenue. moreover, a growing number of insolvencies and combinations associated with an economic downturn, especially insolvencies and combinations in the insurance industry, could adversely affect our brokerage business through the loss of clients or by hampering our ability to place insurance and reinsurance business. guy carpenter is especially susceptible to this risk given the limited number of insurance company clients and reinsurers in the market place. risks relating to our consulting and risk consulting and technology segments our consulting segment, conducted through mercer and oliver wyman group, represented 45 percent of our total operating segment revenue in 2008. our risk consulting and technology segment, conducted through kroll, represented 9 percent of our total operating segment revenue in 2008. our businesses in these two segments are subject to particular risks. demand for our services might decrease for various reasons, including a general economic downturn, a decline in a client or an industry financial condition, or changes in government regulation. our consulting and risk consulting and technology segments have historically achieved significant annual revenue growth. despite this history, however, the current global economic conditions have resulted in negative impacts on businesses and financial institutions, and financial services entities in particular. many of our clients, especially in the financial services industry, have been reducing expenses, including amounts spent on consulting services. the evolving needs or financial circumstances of our clients may challenge our ability to increase revenues and profitability and reduce demand for our services. if the economy or markets in which we operate experience continued weakness at current levels or deteriorate further, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, demand for many of mercer benefits services is affected by government regulation and tax rules, which drive our clients needs for benefits-related services. for example, significant changes in government regulations affecting the value, use or delivery of benefits and human resources programs, including changes in regulations relating to health and welfare plans, defined contribution plans, or defined benefit plans, may adversely affect the demand for or profitability of mercer services. 21 table of contents our profitability may suffer if we are unable to achieve or maintain adequate utilization and pricing rates for our consultants. the profitability of our consulting and risk consulting and technology businesses depends in part on ensuring that our consultants maintain adequate utilization rates (i.e., the percentage of our consultants working hours devoted to billable activities). our utilization rates are affected by a number of factors, including: our ability to transition consultants promptly from completed projects to new assignments, and to engage newly hired consultants quickly in revenue-generating activities; our ability to continually secure new business engagements, particularly because a portion of our work is project-based rather than recurring in nature; our ability to forecast demand for our services and thereby maintain appropriate headcount in each of our geographies and workforces; our ability to manage attrition; unanticipated changes in the scope of client engagements; the potential for conflicts of interest that might require us to decline client engagements that we otherwise would have accepted; our need to devote time and resources to sales, training, professional development and other non-billable activities; and general economic conditions. the factors listed above, and therefore also our utilization rates for service personnel, have been adversely affected by recent macroeconomic conditions. if the utilization rate for our consulting professionals continues to decline, our profit margin and profitability would suffer. in addition, the profitability of our consulting and risk consulting and technology businesses depends on the prices we are able to charge for our services. our pricing power is affected by a number of factors, including: clients perception of our ability to add value through our services; market demand for the services we provide; our ability to develop new services and the introduction of new services by competitors; the pricing policies of our competitors; changes in the extent to which our clients develop in-house or other capabilities to perform the services that they might otherwise purchase from us; and general economic conditions. our pricing has also been adversely affected by the current economic crisis. if we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate billing rates for our consultants, our profit margin and profitability could suffer. our quarterly revenues and profitability may fluctuate significantly. quarterly variations in revenues and operating results at mercer, oliver wyman group and kroll may occur due to several factors. these include: the significance of client engagements commenced and completed during a quarter; the unpredictability of the timing and amount of success fees; the possibility that clients may decide to delay or terminate a current or anticipated project as a result of factors unrelated to our work product or progress; 22 table of contents fluctuations in consultant hiring and utilization rates and clients ability to terminate engagements without penalty; seasonality at mercer due to the impact of regulatory deadlines and other timing factors to which our clients are subject; the success of our strategic acquisitions, alliances or investments; macroeconomic factors such as changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and global securities markets; and general economic conditions, since results of operations in our consulting and risk consulting and technology businesses are directly affected by the levels of business activity of our clients, which in turn are affected by the level of economic activity in the industries and markets that they serve. a significant portion of total operating expenses at mercer, oliver wyman group and kroll is relatively fixed. therefore, a variation in the number of client assignments or in the timing of the initiation or the completion of client assignments can cause significant variations in quarterly operating results for these businesses. if we are unable to collect our receivables or unbilled services, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. our business depends on our ability to successfully obtain payment from our clients of the amounts they owe us for work performed. we evaluate the financial condition of our clients and usually bill and collect on relatively short cycles. there is no guarantee that we will accurately assess the creditworthiness of our clients. macroeconomic conditions could also result in financial difficulties for our clients, and as a result could cause clients to delay payments to us, request modifications to their payment arrangements that could increase our receivables balance, or default on their payment obligations to us. the increasing number of insolvencies in the current economic environment and the numerous bankruptcy laws to which they are subject could also adversely affect our ability to collect receivables or unbilled services. timely collection of client balances depends on our ability to complete our contractual commitments and bill and collect our contracted revenues. if we are unable to meet our contractual requirements, we might experience delays in collection of and/or be unable to collect our client balances, and if this occurs, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. in addition, if we experience an increase in the time to bill and collect for our services, our cash flows could be adversely affected. acceleration of the shift by employers from defined benefit plans to defined contribution plans could adversely affect mercer operating results. mercer currently provides clients with actuarial and consulting services relating to both defined benefit and defined contribution plans. defined benefit pension plans generally require more services than defined contribution plans because defined benefit plans typically involve large asset pools, complex calculations to determine employer costs, funding requirements and sophisticated analysis to match liabilities and assets over long periods of time. recent regulatory initiatives in the united states and certain european countries may result in companies either discontinuing or curtailing defined benefit programs in favor of defined contribution plans. if organizations shift to defined contribution plans more rapidly than we anticipate and we do not successfully adjust our service offerings to take account of that change, mercer operating results could be adversely affected. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. see the information set forth under the heading market risk and credit risk above under part ii, item 7 ( management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations ). 45 table of contentsrisk factors you should consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information presented in this report. these risks have the potential to materially adversely affect mmc business, results of operations or financial condition. risks relating to mmc generally legal and regulatory issues a lawsuit related to claims of professional negligence and fraud in providing actuarial services has been filed against mercer, which may subject mercer to civil liabilities. as more fully described in note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included under part ii, item 8 of this report, mercer is exposed to potential liabilities arising out of a civil lawsuit against mercer (us) inc. filed by the alaska retirement management board in alaska state court. the action alleges professional negligence and malpractice, breach of contract, breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, negligent misrepresentation, unfair trade practices and fraud and misrepresentation related to actuarial services that mercer provided to the alaska division of retirement and benefits relating to the alaska public employees retirement system and the alaska teachers retirement system. the action also seeks damages, including punitive and treble damages, in amounts that could, if awarded, subject mercer to significant monetary damages, negative publicity, reputational harm and to diversion of personnel and management resources. we have limited third party insurance for this matter. mmc has not recorded a liability, other than for legal fees to defend the claim, because mmc is unable, at the present time, to make a determination that a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable in accordance with fasb asc topic no. 450. an adverse outcome in this matter could have a material adverse effect on mmc businesses, results of operations, financial condition or cash flow. we are subject to significant uninsured exposures arising from errors and omissions claims. mmc operating companies provide numerous brokerage, consulting, actuarial and other services for clients around the world. as a result of these activities, we are subject to errors and omissions, or e&amp;o, claims by clients and third parties who allege that they were damaged as a result of the operating company alleged failure to perform its services as expected. certain of these claims could seek damages in amounts that, if awarded, could be significant and subject us to potential liability for monetary damages, negative publicity, reputational harm and to diversion of personnel and management resources. mmc has varying levels of third party insurance coverage against e&amp;o claims, depending on the policy year. to the extent that expected losses exceed mmc retention in any policy year, mmc records a liability and an asset for the amount that mmc expects to recover under its third-party insurance programs. the policy limits and coverage terms of the third-party insurance vary to some extent by policy year, but mmc is not aware of coverage defenses or other obstacles to coverage that would limit recoveries in years prior to policy year 2001-2002 in a material amount. from 2002 to 2008, the availability of third-party insurance declined significantly. in establishing liabilities for errors and omissions claims in accordance with fasb asc topic no. 450, mmc utilizes internal actuarial and other estimates, and case level reviews by inside and outside counsel. a liability is established when a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable. the liability is reviewed quarterly and adjusted as developments warrant. in many cases, mmc has not recorded a liability, other than for legal fees to defend the claim, because mmc is unable, at the present time, to make a determination that a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable. nevertheless, given the unpredictability of e&amp;o claims and of litigation that could flow from them, it is possible that an adverse outcome in a particular matter could have a material adverse effect on mmc businesses, results of operations, financial condition or cash flow in a given quarterly or annual period. 15 table of contents we are subject to legal proceedings and other contingencies which, if determined unfavorably to us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. as more fully described in note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included under part ii, item 8 of this report, we are subject to a number of legal proceedings, regulatory actions and other contingencies. an adverse outcome in connection with one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flow in any given quarterly or annual period. in addition, regardless of any eventual monetary costs, these matters could have a material adverse effect on mmc or its operating companies by exposing us to negative publicity, reputational damage, harm to our client or employee relationships, or diversion of personnel and management resources. our compliance systems and controls cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially applicable u.s. federal and state or foreign laws and regulations, and actions by regulatory authorities or changes in legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate may have an adverse effect on our business. our activities are subject to extensive regulation under the laws of the united states and its various states, the european union and its member states, and the other jurisdictions in which we operate. for example, our insurance and reinsurance services activities, as well as certain of our consulting and related activities, in the united kingdom are under the jurisdiction of the financial services authority. compliance with foreign and u.s. laws and regulations that are applicable to our international operations is complex and may increase our cost of doing business in international jurisdictions. these laws and regulations include import and export requirements, u.s. laws such as the foreign corrupt practices act, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials. while we attempt to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that we, our employees, our consultants or our contractors are in full compliance with all applicable laws and regulations or interpretations of these laws and regulations at all times or that we will be able to comply with any future laws, regulations or interpretations of these laws and regulations. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including those referred to above, we may be subject to investigations, criminal sanctions or civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, loss of an operating license or approval, increased scrutiny or oversight by regulatory authorities, the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in a particular business or redress to clients. the cost of compliance or the consequences of non-compliance could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations or financial condition. in addition, these matters could have a material adverse effect on mmc by exposing us to negative publicity, reputational damage or harm to our client or employee relationships. in most jurisdictions, government regulatory authorities have the power to interpret or amend applicable laws and regulations, and have discretion to grant, renew and revoke various licenses and approvals we need to conduct our activities. such authorities may require mmc to incur substantial increases in costs in order to comply with such laws and regulations. in some areas of our businesses, we act on the basis of our own or the industry interpretations of applicable laws or regulations, which may conflict from state to state or country to country. in the event those interpretations eventually prove different from those of regulatory authorities, we might be penalized or precluded from carrying on our previous activities. moreover, the laws and regulations to which we are subject may conflict among the various jurisdictions and countries in which we operate. recent changes in the regulatory environment may impact our ability to generate additional revenue streams or enhance revenue streams. any significant impairment of our ability to conduct our business as we historically have done could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. finally, government involvement in the insurance or reinsurance markets could displace insurance or reinsurance currently available from the private market and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. 16 table of contents improper disclosure of personal data could result in legal liability or harm our reputation. one of our significant responsibilities is to maintain the security and privacy of our clients confidential and proprietary information and the personal data of their employees and retirement and other benefit plan participants. we maintain policies, procedures and technological safeguards designed to protect the security and privacy of this information. nonetheless, we cannot entirely eliminate the risk of improper access to or disclosure of personally identifiable information. such disclosure could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under our contracts and laws and regulations that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. further, data privacy is subject to frequently changing laws, rules and regulations, which sometimes conflict among the various jurisdictions and countries in which we operate. our failure to adhere to or successfully implement processes in response to changing legal or regulatory requirements in this area could result in legal liability or impairment to our reputation in the marketplace, as well as the general risks described above relating to our compliance systems and controls. financial risks our results of operations could be adversely affected by economic and political conditions and the effects of these conditions on our clients businesses and levels of business activity. global economic and political conditions affect our clients businesses and the markets they serve. in 2008 and 2009, the credit markets and the financial services industry experienced a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the united states and foreign governments. these economic conditions have resulted in negative impacts on businesses and financial institutions, and financial services entities in particular. the global economic crisis has had a significant effect on our consulting and risk consulting and technology segments in particular. many of our clients have been reducing expenses, including amounts they spend on consulting services. if these economic conditions persist or deteriorate, they could potentially have a significant impact on our operations. these economic conditions may reduce demand for our services or depress pricing of those services, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. changes in global economic conditions could also shift demand to services for which we do not have competitive advantages, and this could negatively affect the amount of business that we are able to obtain. should it become necessary for us to further restructure our business, including reducing our work force, as a result of these market conditions or other factors that reduce the demand for our products and services, our ability to execute our business strategy could be adversely affected. financial institution failures may cause us to incur increased expenses or make it more difficult either to utilize our existing debt capacity or otherwise obtain financing for our operations, investing activities (including the financing of any future acquisitions), or financing activities. our cash investments, including those held in a fiduciary capacity, are subject to general credit, liquidity, counterparty, market and interest rate risks that may be exacerbated by the recent global financial crisis. if the banking system or the fixed income, credit or equity markets deteriorate further or remain volatile, the values and liquidity of our investments could be adversely affected. credit rating downgrades would increase our financing costs and could subject us to operational risk. both moody and standard &amp; poor downgraded mmc senior debt credit rating in late 2004 and s&amp;p announced a further downgrade in december 2007. currently, mmc senior debt is rated baa2 by moody and bbb- by s&amp;p. these ratings are the next-to-lowest investment grade rating for moody s, and the lowest investment-grade rating for s&amp;p. if we need to raise capital in the future (for example, in order to fund maturing debt obligations or finance acquisitions or other initiatives), any further credit rating downgrade would increase our 17 table of contents financing costs, and could limit our access to financing sources. further, we believe that a downgrade to a rating below investment-grade could result in greater operational risks through increased operating costs and increased competitive pressures. our significant non-u.s. operations expose us to exchange rate fluctuations and various risks that could impact our business. we are subject to exchange rate risk because some of our subsidiaries receive revenue other than in their functional currencies, and because we must translate the financial results of our foreign subsidiaries into u.s. dollars. our u.s. operations earn revenue and incur expenses primarily in u.s. dollars. in certain jurisdictions, however, our risk and insurance services operations generate revenue in a number of different currencies, but expenses are almost entirely incurred in local currency. due to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, we are subject to economic exposure as well as currency translation exposure on the profits of our operations. exchange rate risk could have a significant impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. changes in interest rates and increased counterparty risk could reduce the value of our investment portfolio and adversely affect our financial condition or results. in the aftermath of the recent financial crisis, many previously highly rated financial institutions now carry credit ratings that are substantially lower than pre-crisis levels. consequently, the aggregate level of counterparty risk is higher and the value of investments with those institutions has declined, resulting in substantial trading and investment losses for corporate and other investors. in order to avoid these risks, investors have favored securities issued, guaranteed or supported by the u.s. or international governments, which has resulted in reduced yields on these and other investments considered to be lower risk. although we generally employ a conservative investment strategy with respect to our cash investments, including those held in a fiduciary capacity, we may incur investment losses as a result of these unusual and unpredictable market developments and we may experience reduced investment earnings if the yields on investments deemed to be low risk remain low or decline further in this time of economic uncertainty. our pension obligations may cause mmc earnings and cash flows to fluctuate. mmc has significant pension obligations to its current and former employees, totaling approximately $10.0 billion at december 31, 2009. the magnitude of our worldwide pension plans means that our earnings are comparatively sensitive to factors such as equity and bond market returns, the assumed interest rates we use to discount our pension liabilities, rates of inflation and mortality assumptions. variations in any of these factors could cause significant fluctuation in our earnings from year to year and may result in increased levels of contributions to our pension plans. we are a holding company and, therefore, may not be able to receive dividends or other distributions in needed amounts from our subsidiaries. mmc is organized as a holding company, a legal entity separate and distinct from our operating subsidiaries. as a holding company without significant operations of our own, we are dependent upon dividends and other payments from our operating subsidiaries to meet our obligations for paying principal and interest on outstanding debt obligations, for paying dividends to stockholders and for corporate expenses. in the event our operating subsidiaries are unable to pay dividends and other payments to mmc, we may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on common stock. further, mmc derives a significant portion of its revenue and operating profit from operating subsidiaries located outside the u.s. since the majority of financing obligations as well as dividends to stockholders are made from the u.s., it is important to be able to access cash generated outside the u.s. funds from mmc operating subsidiaries outside of the u.s. are periodically repatriated to the u.s. via shareholder distributions and repayment of intercompany financing. a number of factors may arise that could limit our ability to repatriate funds or make repatriation cost prohibitive, including, but not limited to, foreign exchange rates and tax-related costs. 18 table of contents in the event we are unable to generate cash from our operating subsidiaries for any of the reasons discussed above, our overall liquidity could deteriorate. international operations we are exposed to multiple risks associated with the global nature of our operations. we do business worldwide. in 2009, 53 percent of mmc total operating segment revenue was generated from operations outside the united states, and over one-half of our employees are located outside the united states. we expect to expand our non-u.s. operations further. the geographic breadth of our activities subjects us to significant legal, economic, operational, market, compliance and reputational risks. these include, among others, risks relating to: economic and political conditions in foreign countries, including the recent disruption in the global financial markets; international hostilities, terrorist activities, natural disasters and infrastructure disruptions; local investment or other financial restrictions that foreign governments may impose; potential costs and difficulties in complying, or monitoring compliance, with rules relating to trade sanctions administered by the u.s. office of foreign assets control, the requirements of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, or other u.s. laws and regulations applicable to business operations abroad; limitations that foreign governments may impose on the conversion of currency or the payment of dividends or other remittances to us from our non-u.s. subsidiaries; withholding or other taxes that foreign governments may impose on the payment of dividends or other remittances to us from our non-u.s. subsidiaries; potential transfer pricing-related tax exposures that may result from the allocation of u.s.-based costs that benefit our non-u.s. businesses; the length of payment cycles and potential difficulties in collecting accounts receivable, particularly in light of the increasing number of insolvencies in the current economic environment and the numerous bankruptcy laws to which they are subject; engaging and relying on third parties to perform services on behalf of mmc; potential difficulties in monitoring employees in geographically dispersed locations; and potential costs and difficulties in complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations (including tax systems) administered by foreign government agencies, some of which may conflict with u.s. or other sources of law. our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem could cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as an earthquake, hurricane, terrorist attack, pandemic, security breach, power loss, telecommunications failure or other natural or man-made disaster, our continued success will depend, in part, on the availability of our personnel, our office facilities, and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. in such an event, our operational size, the multiple locations from which we operate, and our existing back-up systems would provide us with an important advantage. nevertheless, we could still experience near-term operational challenges with regard to particular areas of our operations, such as key executive officers or personnel. our operations, particularly within our consulting and risk consulting and technology segments, are dependent upon our ability to protect our technology infrastructure against damage from business 19 table of contents continuity events that could have a significant disruptive effect on our operations. we could potentially lose client data or experience material adverse interruptions to our operations or delivery of services to our clients in a disaster recovery scenario. we regularly assess and take steps to improve upon our existing business continuity plans and key management succession. however, a disaster on a significant scale or affecting certain of our key operating areas within or across regions, or our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem, could materially interrupt our business operations and cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, damaged client relationships or legal liability. competitive risks each of mmc businesses operates in a highly competitive environment. if we fail to compete effectively, our business and results of operations will suffer. as a global professional services firm, mmc experiences acute and continuous competition in each of its operating segments. our ability to compete successfully depends on a variety of factors, including our geographic reach, the sophistication and quality of our services, and our pricing relative to our competitors. if we are unable to respond successfully to the competition we face, our business and results of operations will suffer. in our risk and insurance services segment, we compete intensely against two other major global brokerage firms, aon and willis, for both client business and employee talent. we also face competition from a wide range of other insurance brokerage firms that operate on a regional, national or local scale. we compete as well with insurance and reinsurance companies that market and service their insurance products without the assistance of brokers or other market intermediaries, and with various other companies that provide risk-related services. the above competition is intensified by an industry trend toward a syndicated or distributed approach to the purchase of insurance brokerage services, whereby a client engages multiple brokers to service different portions of the client account. in our consulting and risk consulting and technology segments, we compete for business and employee talent with numerous independent consulting firms and organizations affiliated with accounting, information systems, technology and financial services firms around the world. kroll also competes with law firms and consulting firms for certain of its services. the loss of key professionals could hurt our ability to retain existing client revenues and generate revenues from new business. across all of our businesses, our personnel are crucial to developing and retaining the client relationships on which our revenues depend. it is therefore very important for us to retain significant revenue-producing employees and the key managerial and other professionals who support them. we face numerous challenges in this regard, including: the intense competition for talent in all of our businesses; the general mobility of professionals in our businesses; and the difficulties we may face in offering compensation of a type and amount (including equity-based compensation) sufficient to attract, motivate and retain valuable employees. losing employees who manage or support substantial client relationships or possess substantial experience or expertise could adversely affect our ability to secure and complete client engagements, which would adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, if any of our key professionals were to join an existing competitor or form a competing company, some of our clients could choose to use the services of that competitor instead of our services. consolidation in the industries that we serve could adversely affect our business. particularly in the current economic environment, companies in the industries that we serve may seek to achieve economies of scale and other synergies by combining with or acquiring other 20 table of contents companies. if two or more of our current clients merge or consolidate and combine their operations, it may decrease the amount of work that we perform for these clients. if one of our current clients merges or consolidates with a company that relies on another provider for its services, we may lose work from that client or lose the opportunity to gain additional work. the increased market power of larger companies could also increase pricing and competitive pressures on us. any of these possible results of industry consolidation could adversely affect our business. guy carpenter is especially susceptible to this risk given the limited number of insurance company clients and reinsurers in the marketplace. our businesses face rapid technological changes and our failure to adequately anticipate or respond to these changes could adversely affect our business and results of operations. to remain competitive in many of our business areas, we must identify the most current technologies and methodologies and integrate them into our service offerings. for example, guy carpenter risk-modeling services are increasingly dependent on implementing advanced software and data-compilation tools; kroll e-discovery business depends on advanced search technology and computerized document processing; and mercer ability to price its outsourcing services competitively is highly dependent on the efficient and cost effective use of technology. if we do not make the correct technology choices or investments, or if our choices or investments are insufficiently prompt or cost-effective, our business and results of operations could suffer. acquisitions and dispositions we face risks when we acquire and dispose of businesses. we have a history of making acquisitions, including a total of 49 acquisitions in the period 2005-2009 for aggregate purchase consideration of $1.0 billion. we have also exited various businesses, including the sale of putnam investments trust ( putnam ) in august 2007, the divestiture of three separate restructuring businesses one in the u.s. and two in the u.k. in 2008, the sale of kroll government services in 2009 and the sale of kroll laboratory specialists in the first quarter of 2010. we expect that acquisitions and dispositions will continue to be part of our business strategy. our success in this regard will depend on our ability to identify appropriate acquisition and disposition candidates and to complete with favorable results the transactions we decide to pursue. while we intend that our acquisitions will improve our competitiveness and profitability, we cannot be certain that our past or future acquisitions will be accretive to earnings or otherwise meet our operational or strategic expectations. acquisitions involve special risks, including accounting, regulatory, or compliance issues that could arise in connection with, or as a result of, the acquisition of the acquired company; the potential assumption of unanticipated liabilities and contingencies and difficulties in integrating acquired businesses; and acquired businesses may not achieve the levels of revenue, profit or productivity we anticipate or otherwise perform as we expect. in addition, if in the future, the performance of our reporting units or an acquired business varies from our projections or assumptions or estimates about future profitability of our reporting units or an acquired business change, the estimated fair value of our reporting units or an acquired business could change materially and could result in an impairment of goodwill and other acquisition-related intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet. for example, since our acquisition of kroll in july 2004, mmc has recorded goodwill impairment charges related to the risk consulting &amp; technology segment of $540 million in 2008 and $315 million in 2009. given the significant size of mmc goodwill and intangible assets, a write-down of this sort could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any given period. as of december 31, 2009, mmc consolidated balance sheet reflected $7.2 billion of goodwill and intangible assets, representing approximately 47 percent of mmc total consolidated assets and allocated by reporting segment as follows: risk and insurance services, $4.2 billion; consulting, $2 billion; and risk consulting and technology, $1.0 billion. when we dispose of businesses we are subject to the risk, contractually agreed or otherwise, of post-transaction liabilities. for example, as described in note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included under part ii, item 8 of this report, we have retained certain contingent litigation liabilities relating to putnam. 21 table of contents risks relating to our risk and insurance services segment our risk and insurance services segment, conducted through marsh and guy carpenter, represented 50 percent of mmc total operating segment revenue in 2009. our business in this segment is subject to particular risks. results in our risk and insurance services segment may be adversely affected by a general decline in economic activity. demand for many types of insurance and reinsurance generally rises and falls as economic growth expands or slows. this dynamic affects the level of commissions and fees generated by marsh and guy carpenter. to the extent our clients become adversely affected by declining business conditions, they may choose to limit their purchases of insurance and reinsurance coverage, as applicable, which would inhibit our ability to generate commission revenue; and may decide not to purchase our risk advisory services, which would inhibit our ability to generate fee revenue. moreover, insolvencies and combinations associated with an economic downturn, especially insolvencies and combinations in the insurance industry, could adversely affect our brokerage business through the loss of clients or by hampering our ability to place insurance and reinsurance business. guy carpenter is especially susceptible to this risk given the limited number of insurance company clients and reinsurers in the market place. volatility or declines in premiums and other market trends may significantly impede our ability to improve revenues and profitability. a significant portion of our risk and insurance services revenue consists of commissions paid to us out of the premiums that insurers and reinsurers charge our clients for coverage. our revenues and profitability are subject to change to the extent that premium rates fluctuate or trend in a particular direction. the potential for changes in premium rates is significant, due to the general phenomenon of pricing cyclicality in the commercial insurance and reinsurance markets. in addition to movements in premium rates, our ability to generate premium-based commission revenue may be challenged by the growing availability of alternative methods for clients to meet their risk-protection needs. this trend includes a greater willingness on the part of corporations to self-insure; the use of so-called captive insurers; and the advent of capital markets-based solutions to traditional insurance and reinsurance needs. risks relating to our consulting and risk consulting and technology segments our consulting segment, conducted through mercer and oliver wyman group, represented 44 percent of our total operating segment revenue in 2009. our risk consulting and technology segment, conducted through kroll, represented 6 percent of our total operating segment revenue in 2009. our businesses in these two segments are subject to particular risks. demand for our services might decrease for various reasons, including a general economic downturn, a decline in a client or an industry financial condition, or changes in government regulation. our consulting and risk consulting and technology segments have historically achieved significant annual revenue growth. despite this history, however, the recent global economic conditions have resulted in negative impacts on businesses and financial institutions. many of our clients have been reducing expenses, including amounts spent on consulting services. the evolving needs or financial circumstances of our clients may challenge our ability to increase revenues and profitability and reduce demand for our services. if the economy or markets in which we operate experience continued weakness at current levels or deteriorate further, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, demand for many of mercer benefits services is affected by government regulation and tax rules, which drive our clients needs for benefits-related services. for example, significant 22 table of contents changes in government regulations affecting the value, use or delivery of benefits and human resources programs, including changes in regulations relating to health and welfare plans, defined contribution plans, or defined benefit plans, may adversely affect the demand for or profitability of mercer services. our profitability may suffer if we are unable to achieve or maintain adequate utilization and pricing rates for our consultants. the profitability of our consulting and risk consulting and technology businesses depends in part on ensuring that our consultants maintain adequate utilization rates (i.e., the percentage of our consultants working hours devoted to billable activities). our utilization rates are affected by a number of factors, including: our ability to transition consultants promptly from completed projects to new assignments, and to engage newly hired consultants quickly in revenue-generating activities; our ability to continually secure new business engagements, particularly because a portion of our work is project-based rather than recurring in nature; our ability to forecast demand for our services and thereby maintain appropriate headcount in each of our geographies and workforces; our ability to manage attrition; unanticipated changes in the scope of client engagements; the potential for conflicts of interest that might require us to decline client engagements that we otherwise would have accepted; our need to devote time and resources to sales, training, professional development and other non-billable activities; and general economic conditions. the factors listed above, and therefore also our utilization rates for service personnel, have been adversely affected by recent macroeconomic conditions. if the utilization rate for our consulting professionals continues to decline, our profit margin and profitability would suffer. in addition, the profitability of our consulting and risk consulting and technology businesses depends on the prices we are able to charge for our services. our pricing power is affected by a number of factors, including: clients perception of our ability to add value through our services; market demand for the services we provide; our ability to develop new services and the introduction of new services by competitors; the pricing policies of our competitors; changes in the extent to which our clients develop in-house or other capabilities to perform the services that they might otherwise purchase from us; and general economic conditions. our pricing has also been adversely affected by the recent economic crisis. if we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate billing rates for our services, our margins and profitability could suffer. our quarterly revenues and profitability may fluctuate significantly. quarterly variations in revenues and operating results at mercer, oliver wyman group and kroll may occur due to several factors. these include: the significance of client engagements commenced and completed during a quarter; the unpredictability of the timing and amount of success fees; 23 table of contents the possibility that clients may decide to delay or terminate a current or anticipated project as a result of factors unrelated to our work product or progress; fluctuations in consultant hiring and utilization rates and clients ability to terminate engagements without penalty; seasonality at mercer due to the impact of regulatory deadlines and other timing factors to which our clients are subject; the success of our strategic acquisitions, alliances or investments; macroeconomic factors such as changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and global securities markets, particularly in the case of mercer, where fees in certain business lines are derived from the value of assets under management (or administration) and declines in global securities markets could result in a decline in revenue and profitability of these business lines; and general economic conditions, since results of operations in our consulting and risk consulting and technology businesses are directly affected by the levels of business activity of our clients, which in turn are affected by the level of economic activity in the industries and markets that they serve. a significant portion of total operating expenses at mercer, oliver wyman group and kroll is relatively fixed. therefore, a variation in the number of client assignments or in the timing of the initiation or the completion of client assignments can cause significant variations in quarterly operating results for these businesses. if we are unable to collect our receivables or unbilled services, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. our business depends on our ability to successfully obtain payment from our clients of the amounts they owe us for work performed. we evaluate the financial condition of our clients and usually bill and collect on relatively short cycles. there is no guarantee that we will accurately assess the creditworthiness of our clients. macroeconomic conditions could also result in financial difficulties for our clients, and as a result could cause clients to delay payments to us, request modifications to their payment arrangements that could increase our receivables balance, or default on their payment obligations to us. the increasing number of insolvencies in the current economic environment and the numerous bankruptcy laws to which they are subject could also adversely affect our ability to collect receivables or unbilled services. timely collection of client balances depends on our ability to complete our contractual commitments and bill and collect our contracted revenues. if we are unable to meet our contractual requirements, we might experience delays in collection of and/or be unable to collect our client balances, and if this occurs, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. in addition, if we experience an increase in the time to bill and collect for our services, our cash flows could be adversely affected. acceleration of the shift by employers from defined benefit plans to defined contribution plans could adversely affect mercer operating results. mercer currently provides clients with consulting services relating to both defined benefit and defined contribution plans. defined benefit pension plans generally require more services than defined contribution plans because defined benefit plans typically involve large asset pools, complex calculations to determine employer costs, funding requirements and sophisticated analysis to match liabilities and assets over long periods of time. recent regulatory initiatives in the united states and certain european countries may result in companies either discontinuing or curtailing defined benefit programs in favor of defined contribution plans. if organizations shift to defined contribution plans more rapidly than we anticipate and we do not successfully adjust our service offerings to take account of that change, mercer operating results could be adversely affected. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. see the information set forth under the heading market risk and credit risk above under part ii, item 7 ( management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations ). 49 table of contentsrisk factors you should consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information presented in this report. these risks have the potential to materially adversely affect the company business, results of operations or financial condition. risks relating to the company generally legal and regulatory issues we are subject to significant uninsured exposures arising from errors and omissions claims. our operating companies provide numerous professional services, including the placement of insurance and the provision of consulting, actuarial and other services for corporate and public clients around the world. as a result of these activities, the company and its subsidiaries are subject to a significant number of errors and omissions, or e&amp;o, claims, particularly in our marsh and mercer businesses. in our risk and insurance services segment, such claims include allegations of damages arising from our failure to adequately place coverage or notify insurers of potential claims on behalf of clients. in our consulting segment, such claims include allegations of damages arising from our consulting, actuarial and other services, which frequently involve assumptions and estimates concerning future events. given the long-tail nature of professional liability claims, e&amp;o matters often relate to services provided by the company dating back many years. in each of our segments, e&amp;o claims seek damages, including punitive and treble damages, in amounts that could, if awarded, be significant and subject us to potential liability for monetary damages, negative publicity, reputational harm and to diversion of personnel and management resources. in establishing liabilities for errors and omissions claims in accordance with fasb asc subtopic no. 450-20 (contingencies loss contingencies), the company utilizes case level reviews by inside and outside counsel and an internal actuarial analysis to estimate potential losses. a liability is established when a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable. the liability is reviewed quarterly and adjusted as developments warrant. in many cases, the company has not recorded a liability, other than for legal fees to defend the claim, because we are unable, at the present time, to make a determination that a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable. nevertheless, given the unpredictability of e&amp;o claims and of litigation that could flow from them, it is possible that an adverse outcome in a particular matter could have a material adverse effect on the company businesses, results of operations, financial condition or cash flow in a given quarterly or annual period. to the extent that expected losses exceed our deductible in any policy year, the company also records an asset for the amount that we expect to recover under any available third-party insurance programs. the company has varying levels of third-party insurance coverage, with policy limits and coverage terms varying significantly by policy year. the company is not aware of coverage defenses or other obstacles to coverage that would limit recoveries through policy year 2001-2002 in a material amount. beginning in 2002, the availability of third-party insurance has declined. further, as more fully described in note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included under part ii, item 8 of this report, we are subject to legal proceedings, regulatory investigations and other contingencies other than e&amp;o claims which, if determined unfavorably to us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. our compliance systems and controls cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially applicable u.s. federal and state or foreign laws and regulations, and actions by regulatory authorities or changes in legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate may have an adverse effect on our business. our activities are subject to extensive regulation under the laws of the united states and its various states, the european union and its member states, and the other jurisdictions in which we operate. for example, we are subject to regulation by foreign and domestic governments, regulatory agencies such as the sec in the united states and the fsa in the united kingdom, and self-regulatory organizations 13 table of contents such as finra, as described further above under part i, item 1 business (regulation) of this report. compliance with foreign and u.s. laws and regulations that are applicable to our operations is complex and may increase our cost of doing business in international jurisdictions. these laws and regulations include import and export requirements, anti-corruption laws such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the pending anti-bribery law in the uk, local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, as well as various trade sanctions laws such as the various international legislative and regulatory requirements relating to trade with iran. as a publicly-traded company, we are subject to additional federal, state and other rules and regulations, including those required by the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and the recently adopted dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, which will subject us to significant additional executive compensation and corporate governance requirements, many of which have yet to be implemented by the sec. compliance with the requirements of these laws and regulations may be costly and adversely affect our business. while we attempt to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that we, our employees, our consultants or our contractors are in full compliance with all applicable laws and regulations or interpretations of these laws and regulations at all times or that we will be able to comply with any future laws, regulations or interpretations of these laws and regulations. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including those referred to above, we may be subject to investigations, criminal sanctions or civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, loss of an operating license or approval, increased scrutiny or oversight by regulatory authorities, the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in a particular business or redress to clients. the cost of compliance or the consequences of non-compliance could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations or financial condition. in addition, these matters could have a material adverse effect on the company by exposing us to negative publicity, reputational damage or harm to our client or employee relationships. in most jurisdictions, government regulatory authorities have the power to interpret or amend applicable laws and regulations, and have discretion to grant, renew and revoke various licenses and approvals we need to conduct our activities. such authorities may require the company to incur substantial increases in costs in order to comply with such laws and regulations. in some areas of our businesses, we act on the basis of our own or the industry interpretations of applicable laws or regulations, which may conflict from state to state or country to country. in the event those interpretations eventually prove different from those of regulatory authorities, we might be penalized or precluded from carrying on our previous activities. moreover, the laws and regulations to which we are subject may conflict among the various jurisdictions and countries in which we operate. recent changes in the regulatory environment may impact our ability to generate additional revenue streams or enhance revenue streams. any significant impairment of our ability to conduct our business as we historically have done could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. finally, government involvement in the insurance or reinsurance markets could displace insurance or reinsurance currently available from the private market and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. improper disclosure of personal data could result in legal liability or harm our reputation. in many jurisdictions, we may have certain obligations to maintain the security and privacy of our clients confidential and proprietary information and the personal information of our employees, our individual customers, and our clients employees and retirement and other benefit plan participants. we maintain policies, procedures and technological safeguards designed to protect the security and privacy of this information. nonetheless, we cannot entirely eliminate the risk of improper access to or disclosure of personal information. such disclosure could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under our contracts, as well as laws and regulations, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. further, data privacy is subject to frequently changing laws, rules and regulations in the various jurisdictions and countries in which we operate. our failure to adhere to or successfully implement 14 table of contents processes in response to changing legal or regulatory requirements in this area could result in legal liability or impairment to our reputation in the marketplace, as well as the general risks described above relating to our compliance systems and controls. financial risks our pension obligations may cause the company earnings and cash flows to fluctuate. volatility in equity and bond market conditions may have an unfavorable impact on the value of the company pension trust assets and estimated future pension liabilities. as a result, the company financial results in any period could be negatively impacted. in addition, in a period of an extended financial market downturn, the company could be required to provide incremental pension plan funding with resulting liquidity risk which could negatively impact the company financial flexibility. the company has significant pension obligations to its current and former employees, totaling approximately $11 billion at december 31, 2010. the magnitude of our worldwide pension plans means that our earnings and the funded status of our pension plans are comparatively sensitive to factors such as equity and bond market returns, as well as the assumed interest rates we use to discount our pension liabilities, rates of inflation and mortality assumptions. in accordance with asc topic no 715, the company reflects the over- or under-funded amount of its pension plans as assets or liabilities, respectively. variations in any of the preceding factors could cause significant fluctuation in our earnings as well as our shareholder equity from year to year and may result in increased levels of contributions to our pension plans. our results of operations could be adversely affected by economic and political conditions and the effects of these conditions on our clients businesses and levels of business activity. global economic and political conditions affect our clients businesses and the markets they serve. in 2008 and 2009, the credit markets and the financial services industry experienced a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the united states and foreign governments. these economic conditions have resulted in negative impacts on businesses and financial institutions, and financial services entities in particular. the global economic crisis has had a significant effect on our consulting segment in particular. many of our clients have been reducing expenses, including amounts they spend on consulting services. if these economic conditions persist or deteriorate, they could potentially have a significant impact on our operations. these economic conditions may reduce demand for our services or depress pricing of those services, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. changes in global economic conditions could also shift demand to services for which we do not have competitive advantages, and this could negatively affect the amount of business that we are able to obtain. should it become necessary for us to further restructure our business, including reducing our work force, as a result of these market conditions or other factors that reduce the demand for our products and services, our ability to execute our business strategy could be adversely affected. financial institution failures may cause us to incur increased expenses or make it more difficult either to utilize our existing debt capacity or otherwise obtain financing for our operations, investing activities (including the financing of any future acquisitions), or financing activities. our cash investments, including those held in a fiduciary capacity, are subject to general credit, liquidity, counterparty, market and interest rate risks that may be exacerbated by the recent global financial crisis. if the banking system or the fixed income, credit or equity markets deteriorate further or remain volatile, the values and liquidity of our investments could be adversely affected. 15 table of contents credit rating downgrades would increase our financing costs and could subject us to operational risk. both moody and standard &amp; poor downgraded the company senior debt credit rating in late 2004 and s&amp;p announced a further downgrade in december 2007. currently, the company senior debt is rated baa2 by moody and bbb- by s&amp;p. these ratings are the next-to-lowest investment grade rating for moody s, and the lowest investment-grade rating for s&amp;p. if we need to raise capital in the future (for example, in order to fund maturing debt obligations or finance acquisitions or other initiatives), any further credit rating downgrade would increase our financing costs, and could limit our access to financing sources. further, we believe that a downgrade to a rating below investment-grade could result in greater operational risks through increased operating costs and increased competitive pressures. our significant non-u.s. operations expose us to exchange rate fluctuations and various risks that could impact our business. we are subject to exchange rate risk because some of our subsidiaries receive revenue other than in their functional currencies, and because we must translate the financial results of our foreign subsidiaries into u.s. dollars. our u.s. operations earn revenue and incur expenses primarily in u.s. dollars. in certain jurisdictions, however, our risk and insurance services operations generate revenue in a number of different currencies, but expenses are almost entirely incurred in local currency. due to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, we are subject to economic exposure as well as currency translation exposure on the profits of our operations. exchange rate risk could have a significant impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. increased counterparty risk and changes in interest rates could reduce the value of our investment portfolio and adversely affect our financial results. as was evident in the recent financial crisis, counterparty risk can quickly escalate resulting in substantial trading and investment losses for corporate and other investors. in addition, we may incur investment losses as a result of unusual and unpredictable market developments, and we may continue to experience reduced investment earnings if the yields on investments deemed to be low risk remain low. we are a holding company and, therefore, may not be able to receive dividends or other distributions in needed amounts from our subsidiaries. the company is organized as a holding company, a legal entity separate and distinct from our operating subsidiaries. as a holding company without significant operations of our own, we are dependent upon dividends and other payments from our operating subsidiaries to meet our obligations for paying principal and interest on outstanding debt obligations, for paying dividends to stockholders and for corporate expenses. in the event our operating subsidiaries are unable to pay dividends and other payments to the company, we may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on common stock. further, the company derives a significant portion of its revenue and operating profit from operating subsidiaries located outside the u.s. since the majority of financing obligations as well as dividends to stockholders are made from the u.s., it is important to be able to access cash generated outside the u.s. funds from the company operating subsidiaries outside of the u.s. are periodically repatriated to the u.s. via shareholder distributions and repayment of intercompany financing. a number of factors may arise that could limit our ability to repatriate funds or make repatriation cost prohibitive, including, but not limited to, foreign exchange rates and tax-related costs. in the event we are unable to generate cash from our operating subsidiaries for any of the reasons discussed above, our overall liquidity could deteriorate. 16 table of contents international operations we are exposed to multiple risks associated with the global nature of our operations. we do business worldwide. in 2010, 56 percent of the company total operating segment revenue was generated from operations outside the united states, and over one-half of our employees are located outside the united states. we expect to expand our non-u.s. operations further. the geographic breadth of our activities subjects us to significant legal, economic, operational, market, compliance and reputational risks. these include, among others, risks relating to: economic and political conditions in foreign countries, including the recent disruption in the global financial markets; potential conflicts of interest that may arise as we expand the scope of our businesses and our client base; international hostilities, terrorist activities, natural disasters and infrastructure disruptions; local investment or other financial restrictions that foreign governments may impose; potential costs and difficulties in complying, or monitoring compliance, with rules relating to trade sanctions administered by the u.s. office of foreign assets control, the requirements of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, or other u.s. laws and regulations applicable to business operations abroad; limitations that foreign governments may impose on the conversion of currency or the payment of dividends or other remittances to us from our non-u.s. subsidiaries; withholding or other taxes that foreign governments may impose on the payment of dividends or other remittances to us from our non-u.s. subsidiaries; potential transfer pricing-related tax exposures that may result from the allocation of u.s.-based costs that benefit our non-u.s. businesses; the length of payment cycles and potential difficulties in collecting accounts receivable, particularly in light of the increasing number of insolvencies in the current economic environment and the numerous bankruptcy laws to which they are subject; engaging and relying on third parties to perform services on behalf of the company; potential difficulties in monitoring employees in geographically dispersed locations; and potential costs and difficulties in complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations (including tax systems) administered by foreign government agencies, some of which may conflict with u.s. or other sources of law. our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem could cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as an earthquake, hurricane, terrorist attack, pandemic, security breach, power loss, telecommunications failure or other natural or man-made disaster, our continued success will depend, in part, on the availability of our personnel, our office facilities, and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. in such an event, our operational size, the multiple locations from which we operate, and our existing back-up systems would provide us with an important advantage. nevertheless, we could still experience near-term operational challenges with regard to particular areas of our operations, such as key executive officers or personnel. our operations, particularly within our consulting segment, are dependent upon our ability to protect our technology infrastructure against damage from business continuity events that could have a 17 table of contents significant disruptive effect on our operations. we could potentially lose client data or experience material adverse interruptions to our operations or delivery of services to our clients in a disaster recovery scenario. we regularly assess and take steps to improve upon our existing business continuity plans and key management succession. however, a disaster on a significant scale or affecting certain of our key operating areas within or across regions, or our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem, could materially interrupt our business operations and cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, damaged client relationships or legal liability. competitive risks each of the company businesses operates in a highly competitive environment. if we fail to compete effectively, our business and results of operations will suffer. as a global professional services firm, the company experiences acute and continuous competition in each of its operating segments. our ability to compete successfully depends on a variety of factors, including our geographic reach, the sophistication and quality of our services, our pricing relative to competitors and our customers option to self-insure or utilize internal resources instead of consultants. if we are unable to respond successfully to the competition we face, our business and results of operations will suffer. in our risk and insurance services segment, we compete intensely against a wide range of other insurance and reinsurance brokerage firms that operate on a global, regional, national or local scale for both client business and employee talent. we compete as well with insurance and reinsurance companies that market and service their insurance products without the assistance of brokers or other market intermediaries, and with various other companies that provide risk-related services. the above competition is intensified by an industry trend toward a syndicated or distributed approach to the purchase of insurance and reinsurance brokerage services, whereby a client engages multiple brokers to service different portions of the client account. in our consulting segment, we compete for business and employee talent with numerous independent consulting firms and organizations affiliated with accounting, information systems, technology and financial services firms around the world. the loss of key professionals could hurt our ability to retain existing client revenues and generate revenues from new business. across all of our businesses, our personnel are crucial to developing and retaining the client relationships on which our revenues depend. it is therefore very important for us to retain significant revenue-producing employees and the key managerial and other professionals who support them. we face numerous challenges in this regard, including: the intense competition for talent in all of our businesses; the general mobility of professionals in our businesses; and the difficulties we may face in offering compensation of a type and amount (including equity-based compensation) sufficient to attract, motivate and retain valuable employees. losing employees who manage or support substantial client relationships or possess substantial experience or expertise could adversely affect our ability to secure and complete client engagements, which would adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, if any of our key professionals were to join an existing competitor or form a competing company, some of our clients could choose to use the services of that competitor instead of our services. consolidation in the industries that we serve could adversely affect our business. companies in the industries that we serve may seek to achieve economies of scale and other synergies by combining with or acquiring other companies. if two or more of our current clients merge 18 table of contents or consolidate and combine their operations, it may decrease the amount of work that we perform for these clients. if one of our current clients merges or consolidates with a company that relies on another provider for its services, we may lose work from that client or lose the opportunity to gain additional work. the increased market power of larger companies could also increase pricing and competitive pressures on us. any of these possible results of industry consolidation could adversely affect our business. guy carpenter is especially susceptible to this risk given the limited number of insurance company clients and reinsurers in the marketplace. our businesses face rapid technological changes and our failure to adequately anticipate or respond to these changes could adversely affect our business and results of operations. to remain competitive in many of our business areas, we must identify the most current technologies and methodologies and integrate them into our service offerings. for example, guy carpenter risk-modeling services are increasingly dependent on implementing advanced software and data-compilation tools and mercer ability to price its outsourcing services competitively is highly dependent on the efficient and cost effective use of technology. if we do not make the correct technology choices or investments, or if our choices or investments are insufficiently prompt or cost-effective, our business and results of operations could suffer. acquisitions and dispositions we face risks when we acquire and dispose of businesses. we have a history of making acquisitions, including a total of 26 acquisitions in the period 2008-2010 for aggregate purchase consideration of $1.3 billion. we have also exited various businesses, including the sale of putnam investments trust ( putnam ) in august 2007 and the sale of kroll in the third quarter of 2010. we expect that acquisitions will continue to be a key part of our business strategy. our success in this regard will depend on our ability to identify and compete for appropriate acquisition candidates and to complete with favorable results the transactions we decide to pursue. while we intend that our acquisitions will improve our competitiveness and profitability, we cannot be certain that our past or future acquisitions will be accretive to earnings or otherwise meet our operational or strategic expectations. acquisitions involve special risks, including accounting, regulatory, compliance, information technology or human resources issues that could arise in connection with, or as a result of, the acquisition of the acquired company; the potential assumption of unanticipated liabilities and contingencies and difficulties in integrating acquired businesses; and acquired businesses may not achieve the levels of revenue, profit or productivity we anticipate or otherwise perform as we expect. in addition, if in the future, the performance of our reporting units or an acquired business varies from our projections or assumptions, or estimates about future profitability of our reporting units or an acquired business change, the estimated fair value of our reporting units or an acquired business could change materially and could result in an impairment of goodwill and other acquisition-related intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet or in adjustments in contingent payment amounts. given the significant size of the company goodwill and intangible assets, a write-down of this sort could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any given period. as of december 31, 2010, the company consolidated balance sheet reflected $6.8 billion of goodwill and intangible assets, representing approximately 45 percent of the company total consolidated assets and allocated by reporting segment as follows: risk and insurance services, $4.7 billion and consulting, $2.1 billion. when we dispose of businesses we are subject to the risk, contractually agreed or otherwise, of post-transaction liabilities. for example, as described in note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included under part ii, item 8 of this report, we have retained certain contingent litigation liabilities relating to putnam and kroll. risks relating to our risk and insurance services segment our risk and insurance services segment, conducted through marsh and guy carpenter, represented 54 percent of the company total operating segment revenue in 2010. our business in this segment is subject to particular risks. 19 table of contents results in our risk and insurance services segment may be adversely affected by a general decline in economic activity. demand for many types of insurance and reinsurance generally rises and falls as economic growth expands or slows. this dynamic affects the level of commissions and fees generated by marsh and guy carpenter. to the extent our clients become adversely affected by declining business conditions, they may choose to limit their purchases of insurance and reinsurance coverage, as applicable, which would inhibit our ability to generate commission revenue; and may decide not to purchase our risk advisory services, which would inhibit our ability to generate fee revenue. moreover, insolvencies and combinations associated with an economic downturn, especially insolvencies and combinations in the insurance industry, could adversely affect our brokerage business through the loss of clients or by hampering our ability to place insurance and reinsurance business. guy carpenter is especially susceptible to this risk given the limited number of insurance company clients and reinsurers in the market place. volatility or declines in premiums and other market trends may significantly impede our ability to improve revenues and profitability. a significant portion of our risk and insurance services revenue consists of commissions paid to us out of the premiums that insurers and reinsurers charge our clients for coverage. our revenues and profitability are subject to change to the extent that premium rates fluctuate or trend in a particular direction. the potential for changes in premium rates is significant, due to the general phenomenon of pricing cyclicality in the commercial insurance and reinsurance markets. in addition to movements in premium rates, our ability to generate premium-based commission revenue may be challenged by the growing availability of alternative methods for clients to meet their risk-protection needs. this trend includes a greater willingness on the part of corporations to self-insure; the use of so-called captive insurers; and the advent of capital markets-based solutions to traditional insurance and reinsurance needs. further, the profitability of our risk and insurances services segment depends in part on ensuring that our professionals are compensated not only for insurance and reinsurance transactions, but for the increasing analytical services and advice that we provide. if we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate billing rates for all of our services, our margins and profitability could suffer. risks relating to our consulting segment our consulting segment, conducted through mercer and oliver wyman group, represented 46 percent of our total operating segment revenue in 2010. our businesses in this segment is subject to particular risks. demand for our services might decrease for various reasons, including a general economic downturn, a decline in a client or an industry financial condition, or changes in government regulation. our consulting segment has historically achieved significant annual revenue growth. despite this history, however, the recent global economic conditions have resulted in negative impacts on businesses and financial institutions. many of our clients, including financial institutions, corporations, governmental entities and pension plans, have been reducing expenses, including amounts spent on consulting services. the evolving needs or financial circumstances of our clients may challenge our ability to increase revenues and profitability and reduce demand for our services. if the economy or markets in which we operate experience continued weakness at current levels or deteriorate further, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, demand for many of mercer benefits services is affected by government regulation and tax rules, which drive our clients needs for benefits-related services. for example, significant changes in government regulations affecting the value, use or delivery of benefits and human resources programs, including changes in regulations relating to health and welfare plans, defined contribution plans, or defined benefit plans, may adversely affect the demand for or profitability of mercer services. 20 table of contents factors impacting defined benefit pension plans could adversely affect mercer. mercer currently provides corporate, multi-employer and public clients with consulting and actuarial services relating to defined benefit pension plans. the nature of our work, particularly our actuarial services, is complex, and involves numerous assumptions and estimates regarding future events, including interest rates used to discount future liabilities, estimated rates of return for a plan assets, healthcare cost trends or participants life expectancies. clients dissatisfied with our services have brought, and may bring, claims against us. in addition, over the past several years, the funded status of defined benefit pension plans has declined markedly. a number of mercer clients have frozen or curtailed their defined benefit plans and moved to defined contribution plans resulting in reduced revenue for mercer retirement business. these developments could adversely affect mercer business and operating results. our profitability may suffer if we are unable to achieve or maintain adequate utilization and pricing rates for our consultants. the profitability of our consulting businesses depends in part on ensuring that our consultants maintain adequate utilization rates (i.e., the percentage of our consultants working hours devoted to billable activities). our utilization rates are affected by a number of factors, including: our ability to transition consultants promptly from completed projects to new assignments, and to engage newly hired consultants quickly in revenue-generating activities; our ability to continually secure new business engagements, particularly because a portion of our work is project-based rather than recurring in nature; our ability to forecast demand for our services and thereby maintain appropriate headcount in each of our geographies and workforces; our ability to manage attrition; unanticipated changes in the scope of client engagements; the potential for conflicts of interest that might require us to decline client engagements that we otherwise would have accepted; our need to devote time and resources to sales, training, professional development and other non-billable activities; the potential disruptive impact of acquisitions and dispositions; and general economic conditions. the factors listed above, and therefore also our utilization rates for service personnel, have been adversely affected by recent macroeconomic conditions. if the utilization rate for our consulting professionals continues to decline, our profit margin and profitability would suffer. in addition, the profitability of our consulting businesses depends on the prices we are able to charge for our services. our pricing power is affected by a number of factors, including: clients perception of our ability to add value through our services; market demand for the services we provide; our ability to develop new services and the introduction of new services by competitors; the pricing policies of our competitors; changes in the extent to which our clients develop in-house or other capabilities to perform the services that they might otherwise purchase from us; and general economic conditions. our pricing has also been adversely affected by the recent economic crisis. if we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate billing rates for our services, our margins and profitability could suffer. 21 table of contents our quarterly revenues and profitability may fluctuate significantly. quarterly variations in revenues and operating results at mercer and oliver wyman group may occur due to several factors. these include: the significance of client engagements commenced and completed during a quarter; the unpredictability of the timing and amount of success fees; the possibility that clients may decide to delay or terminate a current or anticipated project as a result of factors unrelated to our work product or progress; fluctuations in consultant hiring and utilization rates and clients ability to terminate engagements without penalty; seasonality at mercer due to the impact of regulatory deadlines and other timing factors to which our clients are subject; the success of our strategic acquisitions, alliances or investments; macroeconomic factors such as changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and global securities markets, particularly in the case of mercer, where fees in certain business lines are derived from the value of assets under management (or administration) and declines in global securities markets could result in a decline in revenue and profitability of these business lines; and general economic conditions, since results of operations in our consulting businesses are directly affected by the levels of business activity of our clients, which in turn are affected by the level of economic activity in the industries and markets that they serve. a significant portion of total operating expenses at mercer and oliver wyman group is relatively fixed. therefore, a variation in the number of client assignments or in the timing of the initiation or the completion of client assignments can cause significant variations in quarterly operating results for these businesses. if we are unable to collect our receivables or unbilled services, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. our business depends on our ability to successfully obtain payment from our clients of the amounts they owe us for work performed. we evaluate the financial condition of our clients and usually bill and collect on relatively short cycles. there is no guarantee that we will accurately assess the creditworthiness of our clients. macroeconomic conditions could also result in financial difficulties for our clients, and as a result could cause clients to delay payments to us, request modifications to their payment arrangements that could increase our receivables balance, or default on their payment obligations to us. the increasing number of insolvencies in the current economic environment and the numerous bankruptcy laws to which they are subject could also adversely affect our ability to collect receivables or unbilled services. timely collection of client balances depends on our ability to complete our contractual commitments and bill and collect our contracted revenues. if we are unable to meet our contractual requirements, we might experience delays in collection of and/or be unable to collect our client balances, and if this occurs, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. in addition, if we experience an increase in the time to bill and collect for our services, our cash flows could be adversely affected. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. see the information set forth under the heading market risk and credit risk above under part ii, item 7 ( management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations ). 46 table of contentsrisk factors in addition to the other information in this report and our other filings with the sec, you should carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating mmc and its businesses. the risks described below have the potential to materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. litigation-related risks continuing legal and regulatory proceedings concerning mmc may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in january 2005, mmc and its subsidiary marsh entered into an agreement (the settlement agreement ) with the new york state attorney general ( nyag ) and the new york state insurance department ( nysid ) to settle a civil complaint filed in new york state court by nyag in october 2004 (the nyag lawsuit ) and a related citation (the citation ) issued by nysid at approximately the same time. among other things, the nyag lawsuit and the citation had alleged that marsh use of market service agreements with various insurance companies entailed fraudulent business practices, bid-rigging, illegal restraint of trade and other violations of the new york business and insurance statutes, and was not adequately disclosed to marsh clients or mmc investors. following the announcement of the nyag lawsuit and related actions taken by mmc, mmc stock price dropped from approximately $45 per share to a low of approximately $22.75 per share. pursuant to the settlement agreement, mmc established a fund of $850 million, payable over four years, for policyholder clients in the u.s who placed insurance through marsh between 2001 and 2004. approximately 70,000 eligible policyholders have elected to receive an aggregate distribution of approximately $750 million under this fund. notwithstanding the settlement agreement, numerous other lawsuits have been commenced against us, one or more of our subsidiaries, and our current and former directors and officers, relating to matters alleged in the nyag lawsuit. numerous putative class action suits purportedly brought on behalf of policyholders and our shareholders against us, certain of our subsidiaries and certain of our current and former officers and directors are pending in various federal and state courts and in canada. shareholder derivative suits have been filed in various jurisdictions. there are also several actions brought by individual policyholders and additional suits may be filed by other policyholders. the myriad claims asserted in these suits include alleged violations of federal securities and antitrust laws, erisa, rico, and other statutory and common law claims, and seek significant damages. in addition, the states of connecticut and florida have brought lawsuits against mmc and marsh. further, following the filing of the nyag lawsuit, mmc and certain of its subsidiaries received notices of investigations and inquiries, together with requests for documents and information, from attorneys general, departments of insurance and other governmental entities in a significant number of jurisdictions (other than new york) that relate to the allegations in the nyag lawsuit. mmc also has been contacted by certain state attorneys general and commissioners of insurance indicating that they may seek additional monetary or other remedies from mmc. an adverse outcome under any of the lawsuits and regulatory actions involving mmc and its subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the lawsuits and regulatory actions also could result in negative publicity, reputational damage and harm to our client and employee relationships. any of these developments could negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. for further information about the above and other legal and regulatory matters involving mmc and its subsidiaries, see note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included under item 8 of this report. 17 mmc has agreed to retain specified liabilities of putnam, the outcome of which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. on february 1, 2007, we announced our agreement to sell putnam to great-west lifeco., inc., which we expect to close in mid-2007. under the stock purchase agreement relating to the sale, mmc has agreed to indemnify great-west lifeco., inc. for liabilities that may arise in connection with specified regulatory and litigation matters involving putnam, including certain claims, litigation or investigations relating to excessive fees or market-timing. the matters for which mmc has retained indemnification obligations are more fully described in note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included under item 8 of this report. adverse outcomes in the matters for which mmc has retained indemnification obligations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. risks relating to our business model and operations we may not be as successful as we hope in implementing marsh evolving business model. since 2004, marsh has made significant changes to its business model, including the elimination of market service agreements with insurers. the elimination of market service revenue has negatively affected our financial results. in 2004, we recognized market service revenue of $516 million, relating to insurance placements made before october 1, 2004. in 2005 and 2006, respectively, we recognized $114 million and $43 million of market service revenue relating to placements made before october 1, 2004. under mmc current business model, marsh seeks to increase revenue through higher commissions and fees that are disclosed to its clients, and to generate profitable revenue growth by focusing on the provision of value-added risk advisory services beyond traditional brokerage activities. marsh current business and compensation model continues to evolve and in some respects remains untested. we cannot be certain that it will generate the profitable revenue growth we are targeting. the inability to derive adequate revenues from marsh current business and compensation model may significantly impede improvement in our operating results and profitability. we may not achieve all the cost savings and operational improvements we expect from our september 2006 restructuring initiative and other changes to our mmc-wide operating model. in september 2006, we announced a series of restructuring and other initiatives designed to enhance mmc operational efficiency and improve our profitability. these initiatives, which involve information technology, real estate, corporate functions, and operating company business processes, are expected to yield annualized savings of approximately $350 million by the end of 2008, with associated charges of approximately $225 million. we cannot be certain that we will achieve our targeted cost savings and operational improvements on the announced timetable, or at all. if we do not, the impact of the 2006 restructuring initiatives on our operating margin will not be as significant as we currently expect. in addition, mmc believes that future revenue growth will partly depend on increased collaboration among mmc operating companies in accessing their respective client bases. similarly, mmc believes that improvements to its future operating efficiency will depend on its ability to rationalize and consolidate business processes and infrastructure across the entire company. our attempt to achieve these goals entails risks because mmc, due in part to its history of growth through acquisitions, has not traditionally operated in the integrated fashion that management currently envisions. for example, to achieve the above goals we must improve and rationalize our technology infrastructure; standardize a variety of business operational functions; develop increasingly scalable services; improve our ability to market services across our operating companies; create compensation systems that track 18 and reward cross-business collaboration; and market mmc brands in a more unified manner. any inability to execute these changes may significantly impede improvement in our operating results and profitability. we are subject to significant uninsured exposures arising from errors and omissions claims. mmc operating companies provide numerous services for clients around the world. for example, marsh advises on and places insurance coverage, and sometimes provides related services such as risk management advice and claims management and collections. guy carpenter performs similar services in its role as a reinsurance broker. mercer renders a variety of consulting and investment management services. as a result of these and other activities, mmc operating companies are potentially subject to errors and omissions, or e&amp;o, claims by clients and third parties who may allege that they were damaged as a result of mmc failure to perform its duties as expected. mmc works hard to minimize its potential e&amp;o exposures by, among other things, prevention and remediation efforts and employee education/training, but it is not possible to prevent e&amp;o exposures completely. when e&amp;o claims do arise, claimants often seek monetary damages. in the case of marsh and guy carpenter, claimants may allege losses representing the value of insurance or reinsurance coverage lost due to broker negligence. in the case of mercer, claimants may allege losses due to negligent investment or consulting advice. e&amp;o claims in any given case can be significant and may subject mmc, in addition to potential liability for monetary damages, to reputational harm and diversion of personnel and management resources. since 2001, the worldwide market for professional liability insurance for e&amp;o claims in the financial services industry has contracted significantly, which has caused mmc to assume increasing levels of self-insurance for its potential e&amp;o exposures. mmc uses internal actuarial and other estimates, and case-level reviews by inside and outside counsel, to establish loss reserves which it believes are adequate to provide for this self-insured retention. these reserves are reviewed quarterly and adjusted as developments warrant. nevertheless, given the unpredictability of e&amp;o claims and of litigation which could flow from them, it is possible that an adverse outcome in a particular matter could have a material adverse effect on mmc financial condition or results of operations in a given quarterly or annual period. for further information about our e&amp;o exposure and related insurance coverage, including self-insurance, see note 16 to our consolidated financial statements appearing under item 8 of this report. credit rating downgrades could negatively affect our financing costs if we need to raise additional capital. mmc credit rating was lowered following the filing of the nyag lawsuit in october 2004, and both moody and standard &amp; poor currently have mmc on a negative credit outlook. if we need to raise capital in the future (for example, in order to fund maturing debt obligations or finance acquisitions or other initiatives), any further credit rating downgrade could negatively affect our financing costs or access to financing sources. we may not be able to successfully integrate the businesses we acquire. we have a history of numerous acquisitions, including our $1.9 billion acquisition of kroll in july 2004; nine acquisitions in 2005 for total consideration of $68 million; and 16 acquisitions in 2006 for total consideration of $200 million. we expect that acquisitions will continue to be a part of our growth strategy. acquired businesses may not achieve the levels of revenue, profit or productivity we anticipate or otherwise perform as we expect. in addition, acquisitions involve special risks, including the potential assumption of unanticipated liabilities and contingencies and difficulties in integrating acquired 19 businesses. while we intend that our acquisitions will improve our competitiveness and profitability, we cannot be certain that our past or future acquisitions will be accretive to earnings or otherwise meet our operational or strategic expectations. we are exposed to multiple risks associated with the global nature of our operations. we do business worldwide, and we plan to expand our operations further into asia and other foreign markets. this subjects us to significant legal, economic, operational and market risks. these risks include, among others: the economic and political conditions in foreign countries; the imposition of local investment or other restrictions by foreign governments; potential costs and difficulties in complying, or monitoring compliance, with rules relating to trade sanctions administered by the u.s. office of foreign assets control, the requirements of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the rules thereunder, or other u.s. laws and regulations applicable to business operations abroad; the imposition of controls or limitations on the conversion of foreign currencies or remittance of dividends and other payments from foreign subsidiaries; the imposition of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments from subsidiaries; difficulties in monitoring employees in geographically dispersed locations; and potential costs and difficulties in complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations administered by foreign government agencies. some of our subsidiaries in foreign countries receive revenue that differs from their functional currencies. also, we generally must translate the financial results of our foreign subsidiaries into u.s. dollars. although we may use derivative financial instruments to help protect against adverse effects due to exchange rate fluctuations, we cannot eliminate these risks, and significant changes in exchange rates may have an adverse effect on our financial results. competitive risks each of our businesses operates in a highly competitive environment. we encounter strong competition for talent in our risk and insurance services business. this competition comes from other insurance brokerage firms which also operate on a nationwide or worldwide basis, from a large number of regional and local firms throughout the world, from insurance and reinsurance companies that market and service their insurance products without the assistance of brokers or agents and from other businesses that provide risk-related services. our consulting and risk consulting and technology businesses compete with independent consulting firms and organizations affiliated with accounting, information systems, technology and financial services firms around the world, and experience significant competition for talent. any inability to respond successfully to this competition could have a material negative impact on our business or results of operations. in addition, growing competition due to new legislative or industry developments could adversely affect us. these developments include: the selling of insurance by insurance companies directly to insureds without the involvement of a broker or other market intermediary; changes in our business compensation model as a result of regulatory investigations; 20 an increase in competition from existing or recently-formed insurance brokers who have not agreed to limit their use of market service arrangements, thereby giving them a competitive advantage over those brokers, such as marsh, which have agreed to limit the use of such arrangements; the establishment of programs in which state-sponsored entities provide property insurance or reinsurance or other alternative types of coverage in catastrophe-prone areas; and the creation of in-house servicing capabilities by insurance companies or by certain insurance consumers which compete with the third party administration and other administration, servicing and risk management products offered by our consulting and risk consulting and technology segments. increased competition as a result of these developments could cause the supply of, and demand for, our products and services to change, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we may experience loss of key personnel and clients. across all of our businesses, we must preserve our capabilities to serve clients and the capacity to support staff development. retention of our employees therefore is critical to us, and the loss of key managerial personnel or significant revenue producers could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. since late 2004 we have developed compensation programs to retain, motivate, and reward certain key employees, but we cannot be certain of our ability to retain our key employees or attract similar new employees in the future. in addition, as a result of the recent legal and regulatory matters referred to above under litigation-related risks, as well as marsh newly competitive business environment, we may lose important clients or experience difficulty in generating new business. in that event, our business or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. regulatory risks actions by regulatory authorities or changes in legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate may have an adverse effect on our business. our activities are subject to licensing requirements and extensive regulation under the laws of the united states and its various states, the european union and the european and other countries in which our subsidiaries operate. some of this regulation has only recently been instituted; for example, in january 2005, as part of the united kingdom implementation of the eu insurance mediation directive, our insurance and reinsurance services activities in the united kingdom came under the jurisdiction of the financial services authority. many of our businesses depend on the validity of, and continued good standing under, the licenses and approvals pursuant to which they operate, as well as compliance with applicable regulations. in all jurisdictions, applicable laws and regulations are subject to amendment or interpretation by regulatory authorities. generally, such authorities are vested with relatively broad discretion to grant, renew and revoke licenses and approvals, and to implement regulations. licenses may be denied or revoked for various reasons, including the violation of such regulations, conviction of crimes and similar matters. possible sanctions that may be imposed include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in a particular business for specified periods of time, revocation of licenses, censures, redress to clients and fines. in some instances, we follow practices based on our interpretations, or those generally followed by the industry, of laws or regulations, which may prove to be different from those of regulatory authorities. accordingly, the possibility exists that we may be precluded or temporarily suspended from carrying on some or all of our activities or otherwise fined or penalized in a given jurisdiction. 21 we cannot be certain that our risk and insurance services, consulting and risk consulting and technology activities will continue to be conducted in any given jurisdiction as they have been in the past. any significant impairment of our ability to conduct our business as we historically have done could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. for further information about regulatory conditions affecting our business segments, see item 1 ( business ) of this report. risks related to the risk and insurance services business volatility or declines in premiums and other trends in the insurance and reinsurance markets may significantly impede our ability to generate improved revenue growth and profitability. mmc risk and insurance services segment represented 45% of our total operating segment revenue in 2006. we derive much our revenue in that segment from fees paid by clients and commissions paid out of premiums charged by insurance and reinsurance providers. we do not determine the insurance premiums on which much of our revenues are based, and these premiums may vary widely over market cycles or across coverage types or geographic locations conditions. for example, for several years through late 2000, heavy competition for market share among insurance carriers, increased underwriting capacity and improved economies of scale following consolidations resulted in flat or reduced premium rates (a soft market), which in turn put downward pressure on marsh and guy carpenter commission revenue in many lines and in many geographic areas. the insurance industry then transitioned to a hard market, in which premium rates were stable or increasing, particularly following the events of september 11 th . since 2004, the market has again softened in many lines and in geographic areas, although, within that general pattern, an unusually high incidence of hurricanes and other natural disasters periods has hardened the market in certain geographic areas and business lines. because of these market fluctuations, which mmc cannot predict or control, revenues and profitability in our risk and insurance services segment may be volatile or subject to downward pressure. in addition, we may continue to witness trends toward the development of alternative insurance markets, which deprive brokers of the opportunity to generate premium-based revenue. these trends include greater levels of self-insurance by corporations and other entities, the use of captive insurers and the advent of capital markets-based solutions to traditional insurance needs. while marsh and guy carpenter historically have been able to participate in some of these activities on behalf of their customers, and have obtained fee revenue for such services, the continuation of trends like the foregoing may impede our ability to improve revenues and profitability in our risk and insurance services segment. risks related to the consulting and risk consulting and technology businesses in addition to engaging in the risk and insurance services industry through marsh and guy carpenter, mmc participates significantly in the consulting industry and related activities. our consulting segment, consisting of mercer hr and mercer specialty, represented 35% of our total operating segment revenue in 2006 and our risk consulting and technology segment, consisting of kroll, contributed 8%. these businesses entail their own risks. demand for mercer and kroll services may decrease for various reasons, including a general economic downturn or a decline in a client or an industry financial condition. we cannot be certain that demand for our consulting and risk consulting and technology services will continue to grow, or that we will compete successfully with existing or new competitors. demand for our services also may change based on the evolving needs or financial circumstances of our clients. economic downturns affecting particular clients or industry groups could reduce demand for our services and increase price competition. 22 in addition, the demand for many of mercer hr benefits services is affected by government regulation and taxation of employee benefits plans. this regulation and taxation drive our clients needs for compliance-related services. significant changes in tax or social welfare policy or regulations could lead some employers to discontinue their employee benefit plans, including defined benefit pension plans, thereby reducing the demand for our services. a simplification of regulations or tax policy also could reduce the need for our services. our results may suffer if we are unable to achieve or maintain adequate utilization and suitable billing rates for our consultants. in many cases, mercer and kroll clients are free to terminate our engagements at any time. if clients reduce the scope of, or terminate the use of our services with little or no notice, our consultant utilization rate might decline. in that case, we must rapidly re-deploy our consultants to other engagements in order to minimize the potential negative impact on our financial performance. moreover, because a significant portion of our work is project-based rather than recurring in nature, our consultants utilization depends on our ability to continually secure additional engagements. in addition, our profitability at mercer and kroll is largely a function of the rates we are able to charge for our services and the staffing costs for our personnel. accordingly, if we are not able to maintain the rates we charge for our services or appropriate staffing costs of our personnel, we will not be able to sustain our profit margin and our profitability will suffer. the prices we are able to charge for our services are affected by a number of factors, including: clients perception of our ability to add value through our services; market demand for the services we provide; our ability to develop new services and the introduction of new services by competitors; the pricing policies of our competitors; and general economic conditions. if we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate overall utilization as well as maintain or increase the billing rates for our consultants, our financial results could materially suffer. quarterly revenues and profitability may fluctuate significantly in our consulting and risk consulting and technology segments. quarterly variations in mercer and kroll revenues and operating results may occur due to several factors. these include: the significance of client engagements commenced and completed during a quarter; the unpredictability of the timing and amount of success fees, particularly at kroll; the possibility that clients may decide to delay or terminate a current or anticipated project as a result of factors unrelated to our work product or progress; fluctuations in consultant hiring and utilization rates and clients ability to terminate engagements without penalty; the success of strategic acquisitions, alliances or investments; and general economic conditions, since results of operations in our consulting businesses are directly affected by the level of business activity of our clients, which in turn are affected by the level of economic activity in the industries and markets that they serve. in addition, a significant portion of total operating expenses at mercer and kroll is relatively fixed. therefore, a variation in the number of client assignments or in the timing of the initiation or the completion of client assignments can cause significant variations in quarterly operating results for these businesses. 23 acceleration of the shift by employers from defined benefit plans to defined contribution plans could adversely affect mercer hr operating results. mercer hr currently provides clients with actuarial and consulting services relating to both defined benefit and defined contribution plans. defined benefit pension plans generally require more services than defined contribution plans because defined benefit plans typically involve large asset pools, complex calculations to determine employer costs, funding requirements and sophisticated analysis to match liabilities and assets over long periods of time. if organizations shift to defined contribution plans more rapidly than we anticipate and we do not adjust our service offerings to take account of that change, mercer hr operating results could be adversely affected. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. see the information set forth under the heading market risk above under item 7 ( management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations ). 49