quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. our earnings and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to changes in interest rates primarily from our investment of available cash balances in investment grade corporate and u.s. government securities. we do not believe we are materially exposed to changes in interest rates. under our current policies we do not use interest rate derivative instruments to manage exposure to interest rate changes. we estimated that a one percent change in interest rates would result in an approximately $1.4 million and $0.7 million change in the fair market value of our investment portfolio at december 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. the increase is due primarily to a higher investment portfolio balance and slightly longer duration as of december 31, 2003 in comparison to 2002.quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. our earnings and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to changes in interest rates primarily from our investment of available cash balances in investment grade corporate and u.s. government securities. we do not believe we are materially exposed to changes in interest rates. under our current policies we do not use interest rate derivative instruments to manage exposure to interest rate changes. we estimated that a one percent change in interest rates would result in an approximately $1.4 million and $0.7 million change in the fair market value of our investment portfolio at december 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. the increase is due primarily to a higher investment portfolio balance and slightly longer duration as of december 31, 2003 in comparison to 2002.quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. our earnings and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to changes in interest rates primarily from our investment of available cash balances in investment grade corporate and u.s. government securities. we do not believe we are materially exposed to changes in interest rates. under our current policies we do not use interest rate derivative instruments to manage exposure to interest rate changes. we estimated that a one percent change in interest rates would result in an approximately $1.4 million and $0.7 million change in the fair market value of our investment portfolio at december 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. the increase is due primarily to a higher investment portfolio balance and slightly longer duration as of december 31, 2003 in comparison to 2002.quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk our earnings and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to changes in interest rates primarily from our investment of available cash balances in investment grade corporate and u.s. government securities. we do not believe we are materially exposed to changes in interest rates. under our current policies we do not use interest rate derivative instruments to manage exposure to interest rate changes. we estimated that a one percent change in interest rates would result in an approximately $1.4 million change in the fair market value of our investment portfolio at both december 31, 2004 and 2003.risk factors risk factors we operate in an environment that involves a number of significant risks and uncertainties. we caution you to read the following risk factors, which have affected, and/or in the future could affect, our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. the risks described below include forward-looking statements, and actual events and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. furthermore, additional risks and uncertainties are described under other captions in this report and should be considered by our investors. risks related to our financial results and need for additional financing we have had a history of operating losses and we may never achieve profitability. if we continue to incur operating losses, we may be unable to continue our operations. from inception on january 8, 1988 through december 31, 2005, we had a cumulative loss of $585.3 million. if we continue to incur operating losses and fail to become a profitable company, we may be unable to continue our operations. we have no products that are available for sale and do not know when we will have products available for sale, if ever. in the absence of revenue from the sale of products or other sources, the amount, timing, nature or source of which cannot be predicted, our losses will continue as we conduct our research and development activities. we currently receive contract manufacturing revenue from our agreement with merck and, until june 30, 2005, we received contract research and development revenue from our agreement with the procter gamble company. our agreement with procter gamble expired in june 2005 and our agreement with merck will expire before the end of 2006. the expiration of these agreements results in a significant loss of revenue to the company. we will need additional funding in the future, which may not be available to us, and which may force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts. we will need to expend substantial resources for research and development, including costs associated with clinical testing of our product candidates. we believe our existing capital resources will enable us to meet operating needs through at least mid-2008; however, our projected revenue may decrease or our expenses may increase and that would lead to our capital being consumed significantly before such time. we will likely require additional financing in the future and we may not be able to raise such additional funds. if we are able to obtain additional financing through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, such sales may be dilutive to our shareholders. debt financing arrangements may require us to pledge certain assets or enter into covenants that would restrict our business activities or our ability to incur further indebtedness and may contain other terms that are not favorable to our shareholders. if we are unable to raise sufficient funds to complete the development of our product candidates, we may face delay, reduction or elimination of our research and development programs or preclinical or clinical trials, in which case our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially harmed. 10 table of contents we have a significant amount of debt and may have insufficient cash to satisfy our debt service and repayment obligations. in addition, the amount of our debt could impede our operations and flexibility. we have a significant amount of convertible debt and semi-annual interest payment obligations. this debt, unless converted to shares of our common stock, will mature in october 2008. we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments on our debt. even if we are able to meet our debt service obligations, the amount of debt we already have could hurt our ability to obtain any necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes. in addition, our debt obligations could require us to use a substantial portion of cash to pay principal and interest on our debt, instead of applying those funds to other purposes, such as research and development, working capital, and capital expenditures. we have adopted, effective january 1, 2005, the fair market value based method of accounting for stock-based employee compensation. this will materially increase operating expenses in our statement of operations, primarily due to non-cash compensation costs related to stock options. we have adopted, effective january 1, 2005, the fair value based method of accounting for stock-based employee compensation under the provisions of statement of financial accounting standards no. (sfas) 123, accounting for stock based compensation , using the modified prospective method as described in sfas 148, accounting for stock based compensation transition and disclosure. as a result, effective january 1, 2005, we have been recognizing expense in an amount equal to the fair value of share-based payments (including stock option awards) on their date of grant over the vesting period of the awards. in 2005, non-cash stock-based employee compensation expense of $19.9 million related to stock options awards was recognized in operating expenses in our statement of operations, which increased our basic and diluted net loss per share. also, if we had adopted sfas 123 effective january 1, 2004, our net income for the full year 2004 would have decreased by approximately $33.6 million and our basic and diluted net income per share in 2004 would have been $0.15 per share instead of $0.75 per share (basic) and $0.74 per share (diluted). in addition, in december 2004, the financial accounting standards board issued sfas 123r, share-based payment , which is a revision of sfas 123 and supersedes accounting principles board no. 25, accounting for stock issued to employees. sfas 123r requires the recognition of compensation expense in an amount equal to the fair value of share-based payments (including stock options) issued to employees. we are required to adopt sfas 123r effective for the fiscal year beginning january 1, 2006. the impact of adopting sfas 123r has not yet been quantified. the negative impact on our income (loss) as a result of adopting sfas 123 as of january 1, 2005, and subsequently adopting sfas 123r commencing january 1, 2006, may negatively affect our stock price. risks related to development of our product candidates successful development of any of our product candidates is highly uncertain. only a small minority of all research and development programs ultimately result in commercially successful drugs. we have never developed a drug that has been approved for marketing and sale, and we may never succeed in developing an approved drug. even if clinical trials demonstrate safety and effectiveness of any of our product candidates for a specific disease and the necessary regulatory approvals are obtained, the commercial success of any of our product candidates will depend upon their acceptance by patients, the medical community, and third-party payers and on our partners ability to successfully manufacture and commercialize our product candidates. our product candidates are delivered either by intravenous infusion or by intravitreal or subcutaneous injections, which are generally less well received by patients than tablet or capsule delivery. if our products are not successfully commercialized, we will not be able to recover the significant investment we have made in developing such products and our business would be severely harmed. we intend to study our lead product candidates, the vegf trap, vegf trap-eye, and il-1 trap, in a wide variety of indications. we intend to study the vegf trap in a variety of cancer settings, the vegf trap-eye in different eye diseases and ophthalmologic indications, and the il-1 trap in a variety of systemic inflammatory 11 table of contents disorders. most of these current trials are exploratory studies designed to identify what diseases and uses, if any, are best suited for our product candidates. it is likely that our product candidates will not demonstrate the requisite efficacy and/or safety profile to support continued development for most of the indications that are to be studied. in fact, our product candidates may not demonstrate the requisite efficacy and safety profile to support the continued development for any of the indications or uses. clinical trials required for our product candidates are expensive and time-consuming, and their outcome is highly uncertain. if any of our drug trials are delayed or achieve unfavorable results, we will have to delay or may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates. we must conduct extensive testing of our product candidates before we can obtain regulatory approval to market and sell them. we need to conduct both preclinical animal testing and human clinical trials. conducting these trials is a lengthy, time-consuming, and expensive process. these tests and trials may not achieve favorable results for many reasons, including, among others, failure of the product candidate to demonstrate safety or efficacy, the development of serious or life-threatening adverse events (or side effects) caused by or connected with exposure to the product candidate, difficulty in enrolling and maintaining subjects in the clinical trial, lack of sufficient supplies of the product candidate, and the failure of clinical investigators, trial monitors and other consultants, or trial subjects to comply with the trial plan or protocol. a clinical trial may fail because it did not include a sufficient number of patients to detect the endpoint being measured or reach statistical significance. a clinical trial may also fail because the dose(s) of the investigational drug included in the trial were either too low or too high to determine the optimal effect of the investigational drug in the disease setting. for example, we are studying higher doses of the il-1 trap in different diseases after a phase 2 trial using lower doses of the il-1 trap in subjects with rheumatoid arthritis failed to achieve its primary endpoint. we will need to reevaluate any drug candidate that does not test favorably and either conduct new trials, which are expensive and time consuming, or abandon the drug development program. even if we obtain positive results from preclinical or clinical trials, we may not achieve the same success in future trials. many companies in the biopharmaceutical industry, including us, have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, even after promising results have been obtained in earlier trials. the failure of clinical trials to demonstrate safety and effectiveness for the desired indication(s) could harm the development of the product candidate(s), and our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially harmed. the development of serious or life-threatening side effects with any of our product candidates would lead to delay or discontinuation of development, which could severely harm our business. during the conduct of clinical trials, patients report changes in their health, including illnesses, injuries, and discomforts, to their study doctor. often, it is not possible to determine whether or not the drug candidate being studied caused these conditions. various illnesses, injuries, and discomforts have been reported from time-to-time during clinical trials of our product candidates. although our current drug candidates appeared to be generally well tolerated in clinical trials conducted to date, it is possible as we test any of them in larger, longer, and more extensive clinical programs, illnesses, injuries, and discomforts that were observed in earlier trials, as well as conditions that did not occur or went undetected in smaller previous trials, will be reported by patients. many times, side effects are only detectable after investigational drugs are tested in large scale, phase 3 clinical trials or, in some cases, after they are made available to patients after approval. if additional clinical experience indicates that any of our product candidates has many side effects or causes serious or life-threatening side effects, the development of the product candidate may fail or be delayed, which would severely harm our business. our vegf trap is being studied for the potential treatment of certain types of cancer and our vegf trap-eye candidate is being studied in diseases of the eye. there are many potential safety concerns associated with significant blockade of vascular endothelial growth factor, or vegf. these risks, based on the clinical and preclinical experience of systemically delivered vegf inhibitors, including the systemic delivery of the vegf trap, include bleeding, hypertension, and proteinuria. these serious side effects and other serious side effects have been reported in our systemic vegf trap studies in cancer and diseases of the eye. in addition, patients given infusions of any protein, including the vegf trap delivered through intravenous administration, may develop severe hypersensitivity reactions, referred to as infusion reactions. these and other complications or side effects 12 table of contents could harm the development of the vegf trap for the treatment of cancer or the vegf trap-eye for the treatment of diseases of the eye. although the il-1 trap was generally well tolerated and was not associated with any drug-related serious adverse events in the phase 2 rheumatoid arthritis study completed in 2003, safety or tolerability concerns may arise as we test higher doses of the il-1 trap in patients with other inflammatory diseases and disorders. like tnf-antagonists such as enbrel (amgen) and remicade (centocor), the il-1 trap affects the immune defense system of the body by blocking some of its functions. therefore, there may be an increased risk for infections to develop in patients treated with the il-1 trap. in addition, patients given infusions of the il-1 trap have developed hypersensitivity reactions, referred to as infusion reactions. these and other complications or side effects could harm the development of the il-1 trap. our product candidates in development are recombinant proteins that could cause an immune response, resulting in the creation of harmful or neutralizing antibodies against the therapeutic protein. in addition to the safety, efficacy, manufacturing, and regulatory hurdles faced by our product candidates, the administration of recombinant proteins frequently causes an immune response, resulting in the creation of antibodies against the therapeutic protein. the antibodies can have no effect or can totally neutralize the effectiveness of the protein, or require that higher doses be used to obtain a therapeutic effect. in some cases, the antibody can cross react with the patient own proteins, resulting in an auto-immune type disease. whether antibodies will be created can often not be predicted from preclinical or clinical experiments, and their appearance is often delayed, so that there can be no assurance that neutralizing antibodies will not be created at a later date in some cases even after pivotal clinical trials have been completed. subjects who received the il-1 trap in clinical trials have developed antibodies. it is possible that as we test the vegf trap with more sensitive assays in different patient populations and larger clinical trials, we will find that subjects given the vegf trap develop antibodies to the product candidate. we may be unable to formulate or manufacture our product candidates in a way that is suitable for clinical or commercial use. changes in product formulations and manufacturing processes may be required as product candidates progress in clinical development and are ultimately commercialized. if we are unable to develop suitable product formulations or manufacturing processes to support large scale clinical testing of our product candidates, including the vegf trap, vegf trap-eye, il-1 trap, and il-4/13 trap, we may be unable to supply necessary materials for our clinical trials, which would delay the development of our product candidates. similarly, if we are unable to supply sufficient quantities of our product or develop product formulations suitable for commercial use, we will not be able to successfully commercialize our product candidates. risks related to intellectual property if we cannot protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets or our patents are insufficient to protect our proprietary rights, our business and competitive position will be harmed. our business requires using sensitive and proprietary technology and other information that we protect as trade secrets. we seek to prevent improper disclosure of these trade secrets through confidentiality agreements. if our trade secrets are improperly exposed, either by our own employees or our collaborators, it would help our competitors and adversely affect our business. we will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our rights are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. the patent position of biotechnology companies involves complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, enforceability cannot be predicted with certainty. our patents may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented. patent applications filed outside the united states may be challenged by third parties who file an opposition. such opposition proceedings are increasingly common in the european union and are costly to defend. we have patent applications that are being opposed and it is likely that we will need to defend additional patent applications in the future. our patent rights may not provide us with a proprietary position or 13 table of contents competitive advantages against competitors. furthermore, even if the outcome is favorable to us, the enforcement of our intellectual property rights can be extremely expensive and time consuming. we may be restricted in our development and/or commercialization activities by, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed, third party patents or other proprietary rights. our commercial success depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of third parties. other parties may allege that they have blocking patents to our products in clinical development, either because they claim to hold proprietary rights to the composition of a product or the way it is manufactured or used. we are aware of patents and pending applications owned by genentech that claim certain chimeric vegf receptor compositions. although we do not believe that the vegf trap or vegf trap-eye infringes any valid claim in these patents or patent applications, genentech could initiate a lawsuit for patent infringement and assert its patents are valid and cover the vegf trap or vegf trap-eye. genentech may be motivated to initiate such a lawsuit at some point in an effort to impair our ability to develop and sell the vegf trap or vegf trap-eye, which represents a potential competitive threat to genentech vegf-binding products and product candidates. an adverse determination by a court in any such potential patent litigation would likely materially harm our business by requiring us to seek a license, which may not be available, or resulting in our inability to manufacture, develop and sell the vegf trap or vegf trap-eye or in a damage award. we are aware of certain united states and foreign patents relating to particular il-4 and il-13 receptors. our il-4/13 trap includes portions of the il-4 and il-13 receptors. in addition, we are aware of a broad patent held by genentech relating to proteins fused to certain immunoglobulin domains. our trap product candidates include proteins fused to immunoglobulin domains. although we do not believe that we are infringing valid and enforceable third party patents, the holders of these patents may sue us for infringement and a court may find that we are infringing one or more validly issued patents, which may materially harm our business. any patent holders could sue us for damages and seek to prevent us from manufacturing, selling, or developing our drug candidates, and a court may find that we are infringing validly issued patents of third parties. in the event that the manufacture, use, or sale of any of our clinical candidates infringes on the patents or violates other proprietary rights of third parties, we may be prevented from pursuing product development, manufacturing, and commercialization of our drugs and may be required to pay costly damages. such a result may materially harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. legal disputes are likely to be costly and time consuming to defend. we seek to obtain licenses to patents when, in our judgment, such licenses are needed. if any licenses are required, we may not be able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. the failure to obtain any such license could prevent us from developing or commercializing any one or more of our product candidates, which could severely harm our business. regulatory and litigation risks if we do not obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, we will not be able to market or sell them. we cannot sell or market products without regulatory approval. if we do not obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our product candidates, the value of our company and our results of operations will be harmed. in the united states, we must obtain and maintain approval from the united states food and drug administration (fda) for each drug we intend to sell. obtaining fda approval is typically a lengthy and expensive process, and approval is highly uncertain. foreign governments also regulate drugs distributed in their country and approval in any country is likely to be a lengthy and expensive process, and approval is highly uncertain. none of our product candidates has ever received regulatory approval to be marketed and sold in the united states or any other country. we may never receive regulatory approval for any of our product candidates. 14 table of contents if the testing or use of our products harms people, we could be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims. we could also face costly and damaging claims arising from employment law, securities law, environmental law, or other applicable laws governing our operations. the testing, manufacturing, marketing, and sale of drugs for use in people expose us to product liability risk. any informed consent or waivers obtained from people who sign up for our clinical trials may not protect us from liability or the cost of litigation. our product liability insurance may not cover all potential liabilities or may not completely cover any liability arising from any such litigation. moreover, we may not have access to liability insurance or be able to maintain our insurance on acceptable terms. our operations may involve hazardous materials and are subject to environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations. we may incur substantial liability arising from our activities involving the use of hazardous materials. as a biopharmaceutical company with significant manufacturing operations, we are subject to extensive environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations, including those governing the use of hazardous materials. our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of chemicals, viruses, radioactive compounds, and other hazardous materials. the cost of compliance with environmental, health, and safety regulations is substantial. if an accident involving these materials or an environmental discharge were to occur, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, or face regulatory actions, which could exceed our resources or insurance coverage. changes in the securities laws and regulations have increased, and are likely to continue to increase, our costs. the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, which became law in july 2002, has required changes in some of our corporate governance, securities disclosure, and compliance practices. in response to the requirements of that act, the sec and the nasdaq stock market have promulgated new rules and listing standards covering a variety of subjects. compliance with these new rules and listing standards has increased our legal costs, and significantly increased our accounting and auditing costs, and we expect these costs to continue. these developments may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain directors and officers liability insurance. likewise, these developments may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly independent directors, or qualified executive officers. in future years, if we or our independent registered public accounting firm are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, the market value of our common stock could be adversely affected. as directed by section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, the sec adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on form 10-k that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. in addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing our financial statements must attest to and report on management assessment and on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. our independent registered public accounting firm provided us with an unqualified report as to our assessment and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2005, which report is included in this annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2005. however, we cannot assure you that management or our independent registered public accounting firm will be able to provide such an assessment or unqualified report as of future year-ends. in this event, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the market value of our common stock. 15 table of contents risks related to our dependence on third parties if our collaboration with sanofi-aventis for the vegf trap is terminated, our business operations and our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize the vegf trap in the time expected, or at all, would be harmed. we rely heavily on sanofi-aventis to assist with the development of the vegf trap oncology program. sanofi-aventis funds all of the development expenses incurred by both companies in connection with the vegf trap oncology program. if the vegf trap oncology program continues, we will rely on sanofi-aventis to assist with funding the vegf trap program, provide commercial manufacturing capacity, enroll and monitor clinical trials, obtain regulatory approval, particularly outside the united states, and provide sales and marketing support. while we cannot assure you that the vegf trap will ever be successfully developed and commercialized, if sanofi-aventis does not perform its obligations in a timely manner, or at all, our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize the vegf trap in cancer indications will be significantly adversely affected. sanofi-aventis has the right to terminate its collaboration agreement with us at any time upon twelve months advance notice. if sanofi-aventis were to terminate its collaboration agreement with us, we would not have the resources or skills to replace those of our partner, which could cause significant delays in the development and/or manufacture of the vegf trap and result in substantial additional costs to us. we have no sales, marketing, or distribution capabilities and would have to develop or outsource these capabilities. termination of the sanofi-aventis collaboration agreement would create substantial new and additional risks to the successful development of the vegf trap oncology program. our collaborators and service providers may fail to perform adequately in their efforts to support the development, manufacture, and commercialization of our drug candidates. we depend upon third-party collaborators, including sanofi-aventis and service providers such as clinical research organizations, outside testing laboratories, clinical investigator sites, and third-party manufacturers and product packagers and labelers, to assist us in the development of our product candidates. if any of our existing collaborators or service providers breaches or terminates its agreement with us or does not perform its development or manufacturing services under an agreement in a timely manner or at all, we could experience additional costs, delays, and difficulties in the development or ultimate commercialization of our product candidates. risks related to the manufacture of our product candidates we have limited manufacturing capacity, which could inhibit our ability to successfully develop or commercialize our drugs. before approving a new drug or biologic product, the fda requires that the facilities at which the product will be manufactured be in compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cgmp requirements. manufacturing product candidates in compliance with these regulatory requirements is complex, time-consuming, and expensive. to be successful, our products must be manufactured for development, following approval, in commercial quantities, in compliance with regulatory requirements, and at competitive costs. if we or any of our product collaborators or third-party manufacturers, product packagers, or labelers are unable to maintain regulatory compliance, the fda can impose regulatory sanctions, including, among other things, refusal to approve a pending application for a new drug or biologic product, or revocation of a pre-existing approval. as a result, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially harmed. our manufacturing facility is likely to be inadequate to produce sufficient quantities of product for commercial sale. we intend to rely on our corporate collaborators, as well as contract manufacturers, to produce the large quantities of drug material needed for commercialization of our products. we rely entirely on third-party manufacturers for filling and finishing services. we will have to depend on these manufacturers to deliver material on a timely basis and to comply with regulatory requirements. if we are unable to supply sufficient material on acceptable terms, or if we should encounter delays or difficulties in our relationships with our corporate collaborators or contract manufacturers, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially harmed. 16 table of contents we may expand our own manufacturing capacity to support commercial production of active pharmaceutical ingredients, or api, for our product candidates. this will require substantial additional funds, and we will need to hire and train significant numbers of employees and managerial personnel to staff our facility. start-up costs can be large and scale-up entails significant risks related to process development and manufacturing yields. we may be unable to develop manufacturing facilities that are sufficient to produce drug material for clinical trials or commercial use. in addition, we may be unable to secure adequate filling and finishing services to support our products. as a result, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially harmed. we may be unable to obtain key raw materials and supplies for the manufacture of our product candidates. in addition, we may face difficulties in developing or acquiring production technology and managerial personnel to manufacture sufficient quantities of our product candidates at reasonable costs and in compliance with applicable quality assurance and environmental regulations and governmental permitting requirements. if any of our clinical programs are discontinued, we may face costs related to the unused capacity at our manufacturing facilities. we have large-scale manufacturing operations in rensselaer, new york. under a long-term manufacturing agreement with merck, which expires in october 2006, we produce an intermediate for a merck pediatric vaccine at our facility in rensselaer, new york. we also use our facilities to produce api for our own clinical and preclinical candidates. when we no longer use our facilities to manufacture the merck intermediate or if clinical candidates are discontinued, we will have to absorb overhead costs and inefficiencies. certain of our raw materials are single-sourced from third parties; third-party supply failures could adversely affect our ability to supply our products. certain raw materials necessary for manufacturing and formulation of our product candidates are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. we would be unable to obtain these raw materials for an indeterminate period of time if these third-party single-source suppliers were to cease or interrupt production or otherwise fail to supply these materials or products to us for any reason, including due to regulatory requirements or action, due to adverse financial developments at or affecting the supplier, or due to labor shortages or disputes. this, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our ability to manufacture our product candidates for use in clinical trials, which could materially and adversely affect our business and future prospects. also, certain of the raw materials required in the manufacturing and the formulation of our clinical candidates may be derived from biological sources, including mammalian tissues, bovine serum, and human serum albumin. there are certain european regulatory restrictions on using these biological source materials. if we are required to substitute for these sources to comply with european regulatory requirements, our clinical development activities may be delayed or interrupted. risks related to commercialization of products if we are unable to establish sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities, or enter into agreements with third parties to do so, we will be unable to successfully market and sell future products. we have no sales or distribution personnel or capabilities and have only a small staff with marketing capabilities. if we are unable to obtain those capabilities, either by developing our own organizations or entering into agreements with service providers, we will not be able to successfully sell any products that we may obtain regulatory approval for and bring to market in the future. in that event, we will not be able to generate significant revenue, even if our product candidates are approved. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to hire the qualified sales and marketing personnel we need or that we will be able to enter into marketing or distribution agreements with third-party providers on acceptable terms, if at all. under the terms of our collaboration agreement with sanofi-aventis, we currently rely on sanofi-aventis for sales, marketing, and distribution of the vegf trap in cancer indications, should it be approved in the future by regulatory authorities for marketing. we will have to rely on a third party or devote significant resources to develop our own sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities for our other product candidates, including the vegf trap-eye, and we may be unsuccessful in developing our own sales, marketing, and distribution organization. 17 table of contents even if our product candidates are approved for marketing, their commercial success is highly uncertain because our competitors may get to the marketplace before we do with better or lower cost drugs or the market for our product candidates may be too small to support commercialization or sufficient profitability. there is substantial competition in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries from pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and chemical companies. many of our competitors have substantially greater research, preclinical and clinical product development and manufacturing capabilities, and financial, marketing, and human resources than we do. our smaller competitors may also enhance their competitive position if they acquire or discover patentable inventions, form collaborative arrangements, or merge with large pharmaceutical companies. even if we achieve product commercialization, our competitors have achieved, and may continue to achieve, product commercialization before our products are approved for marketing and sale. genentech has an approved vegf antagonist, avastin (genentech), on the market for treating certain cancers and many different pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are working to develop competing vegf antagonists, including novartis, eyetech pharmaceuticals, and pfizer. many of these molecules are farther along in development than the vegf trap and may offer competitive advantages over our molecule. novartis has an ongoing phase 3 clinical development program evaluating an orally delivered vegf tyrosine kinase inhibitor in different cancer settings. onyx pharmaceuticals and bayer have received approval from the fda to market and sell the first oral medication that targets tumor cell growth and new vasculature formation that fuels the growth of tumors. the marketing approvals for genentech vegf antagonist, avastin, and their extensive, ongoing clinical development plan for avastin in other cancer indications, may make it more difficult for us to enroll patients in clinical trials to support the vegf trap and to obtain regulatory approval of the vegf trap in these cancer settings. this may delay or impair our ability to successfully develop and commercialize the vegf trap. in addition, even if the vegf trap is ever approved for sale for the treatment of certain cancers, it will be difficult for our drug to compete against avastin and the onyx/bayer kinase inhibitor, because doctors and patients will have significant experience using these medicines. in addition, an oral medication may be considerably less expensive for patients than a biologic medication, providing a competitive advantage to companies that market such products. the market for eye diseases is also very competitive. eyetech pharmaceuticals and pfizer are marketing an approved vegf inhibitor for age-related macular degeneration (wet amd). novartis and genentech are collaborating on the development of a vegf antibody fragment for the treatment of wet amd that is in phase 3 development. in december 2005, genentech announced that it filed an application with the fda to market and sell this vegf inhibitor in patients with wet amd. in addition, it has been reported that ophthalmologists are using a third-party reformulated version of genentech approved vegf antagonist, avastin with success for the treatment of wet amd. the marketing approval of the eyetech/pfizer vegf inhibitor and the potential off-label use of avastin and approval of the novartis/genentech vegf antibody fragment make it more difficult for us to successfully develop the vegf trap-eye. even if the vegf trap-eye is ever approved for sale for the treatment of eye diseases, it will be difficult for our drug to compete against the eyetech/pfizer drug and, if approved by the fda, the novartis/genentech vegf inhibitor, because doctors and patients will have significant experience using these medicines. moreover, the relatively low cost of therapy with avastin in patients with wet amd presents a further competitive challenge in this indication. the availability of highly effective fda approved tnf-antagonists such as enbrel (amgen), remicade (centocor), and humira (abbott laboratories), and the il-1 receptor antagonist kineret (amgen), and other marketed therapies makes it more difficult to successfully develop and commercialize the il-1 trap. this is one of the reasons we discontinued the development of the il-1 trap in adult rheumatoid arthritis. in addition, even if the il-1 trap is ever approved for sale, it will be difficult for our drug to compete against these fda approved tnf-antagonists in indications where both are useful because doctors and patients will have significant experience using these effective medicines. moreover, in such indications these approved therapeutics may offer competitive advantages over the il-1 trap, such as requiring fewer injections. there are both small molecules and antibodies in development by third parties that are designed to block the synthesis of interleukin-1 or inhibit the signaling of interleukin-1. for example, novartis is developing an antibody to interleukin-1 and amgen is developing an antibody to the interleukin-1 receptor. these drug candidates could 18 table of contents offer competitive advantages over the il-1 trap. the successful development of these competing molecules could delay or impair our ability to successfully develop and commercialize the il-1 trap. for example, we may find it difficult to enroll patients in clinical trials for the il-1 trap if the companies developing these competing interleukin-1 inhibitors commence clinical trials in the same indications. we are developing the il-1 trap for the treatment of a spectrum of rare diseases associated with mutations in the cias 1 gene. these rare genetic disorders affect a small group of people, estimated to be between several hundred and a few thousand. there may be too few patients with these genetic disorders to profitably commercialize the il-1 trap in this indication. the successful commercialization of our product candidates will depend on obtaining coverage and reimbursement for use of these products from third-party payers. sales of biopharmaceutical products largely depend on the reimbursement of patients medical expenses by government health care programs and private health insurers. without the financial support of the governments or third-party payers, the market for any biopharmaceutical product will be limited. these third-party payers increasingly challenge the price and examine the cost-effectiveness of products and services. significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of any new therapeutic, particularly if there exist lower-cost standards of care. third-party payers may not reimburse sales of our products, which would harm our business. risk related to employees we are dependent on our key personnel and if we cannot recruit and retain leaders in our research, development, manufacturing, and commercial organizations, our business will be harmed. we are highly dependent on our executive officers. if we are not able to retain any of these persons or our chairman, our business may suffer. in particular, we depend on the services of p. roy vagelos, m.d., the chairman of our board of directors, leonard schleifer, m.d., ph.d., our president and chief executive officer, george d. yancopoulos, m.d., ph.d., our executive vice president, chief scientific officer and president, regeneron research laboratories, murray a. goldberg, our senior vice president, finance administration, chief financial officer, treasurer, and assistant secretary, neil stahl, ph.d., our senior vice president, preclinical development and biomolecular science, and randall g. rupp, ph.d., our senior vice president, manufacturing operations. there is intense competition in the biotechnology industry for qualified scientists and managerial personnel in the development, manufacture, and commercialization of drugs. we may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for developing our business. risks related to our common stock our stock price is extremely volatile. there has been significant volatility in our stock price and generally in the market prices of biotechnology companies securities. various factors and events may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. these factors include, by way of example: progress, delays, or adverse results in clinical trials; announcement of technological innovations or product candidates by us or competitors; fluctuations in our operating results; public concern as to the safety or effectiveness of our product candidates; developments in our relationship with collaborative partners; developments in the biotechnology industry or in government regulation of healthcare; large sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors, or significant shareholders; 19 table of contents arrivals and departures of key personnel; and general market conditions. the trading price of our common stock has been, and could continue to be, subject to wide fluctuations in response to these and other factors, including the sale or attempted sale of a large amount of our common stock in the market. broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the market price of our common stock. future sales of our common stock by our significant shareholders or us may depress our stock price and impair our ability to raise funds in new share offerings. a small number of our shareholders beneficially own a substantial amount of our common stock. as of december 31, 2005, our seven largest shareholders, including sanofi-aventis, beneficially owned 47.0% of our outstanding shares of common stock, assuming, in the case of leonard s. schleifer, m.d. ph.d., our chief executive officer, and p. roy vagelos, m.d., our chairman, the conversion of their class a stock into common stock and the exercise of all options held by them which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2005. as of that date, sanofi-aventis owned 2,799,552 shares of common stock, representing approximately 5.2% of the shares of common stock then outstanding. under our stock purchase agreement with sanofi-aventis, through september 5, 2006, sanofi-aventis may sell no more than 250,000 of these shares in any calendar quarter. after september 5, 2006, sanofi-aventis may sell no more than 500,000 of these shares in any calendar quarter. if sanofi-aventis, or our other significant shareholders or we, sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur exists, the market price of our common stock could fall. sales of common stock by our significant shareholders, including sanofi-aventis, also might make it more difficult for us to raise funds by selling equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. our existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval. holders of class a stock, who are generally the shareholders who purchased their stock from us before our initial public offering, are entitled to ten votes per share, while holders of common stock are entitled to one vote per share. as of december 31, 2005, holders of class a stock held 4.2% of all shares of common stock and class a stock then outstanding, and had 30.3% of the combined voting power of all of common stock and class a stock then outstanding. these shareholders, if acting together, would be in a position to significantly influence the election of our directors and to effect or prevent certain corporate transactions that require majority or supermajority approval of the combined classes, including mergers and other business combinations. this may result in our company taking corporate actions that you may not consider to be in your best interest and may affect the price of our common stock. as of december 31, 2005: our current officers and directors beneficially owned 14.8% of our outstanding shares of common stock, assuming conversion of their class a stock into common stock and the exercise of all options held by such persons which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2005, and 33.6% of the combined voting power of our outstanding shares of common stock and class a stock, assuming the exercise of all options held by such persons which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2005; and our seven largest shareholders beneficially owned 47.0% of our outstanding shares of common stock assuming, in the case of leonard s. schleifer, m.d., ph.d., our chief executive officer, and p. roy vagelos, m.d., our chairman, the conversion of their class a stock into common stock and the exercise of all options held by them which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2005. in addition, these seven shareholders held 53.4% of the combined voting power of our outstanding shares of common stock and class a stock, assuming the exercise of all options held by our chief executive officer and our chairman which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2005. 20 table of contents the anti-takeover effects of provisions of our charter, by-laws, and rights agreement, and of new york corporate law, could deter, delay, or prevent an acquisition or other change in control of us and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our by-laws, our rights agreement and the new york business corporation law contain various provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company or our management that shareholders may consider favorable or beneficial. some of these provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other shareholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. these provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. these provisions include: authorization to issue blank check preferred stock, which is preferred stock that can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior shareholder approval, with rights senior to those of our common shareholders; a staggered board of directors, so that it would take three successive annual meetings to replace all of our directors; a requirement that removal of directors may only be effected for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of at least eighty percent (80%) of the outstanding shares entitled to vote for directors, as well as a requirement that any vacancy on the board of directors may be filled only by the remaining directors; any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of shareholders may be taken without a meeting, only if, prior to such action, all of our shareholders consent, the effect of which is to require that shareholder action may only be taken at a duly convened meeting; any shareholder seeking to bring business before an annual meeting of shareholders must provide timely notice of this intention in writing and meet various other requirements; and under the new york business corporation law, a plan of merger or consolidation of the company must be approved by two-thirds of the votes of all outstanding shares entitled to vote thereon. see the risk factor immediately above captioned our existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval. we have a shareholder rights plan which could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the support of our board of directors and principal shareholders. in addition, many of our stock options issued under our 2000 long-term incentive plan may become fully vested in connection with a change in control of the company, as defined in the plan. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk our earnings and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to changes in interest rates primarily from our investment of available cash balances in investment grade corporate, asset-backed, and u.s. government securities. we do not believe we are materially exposed to changes in interest rates. under our current policies we do not use interest rate derivative instruments to manage exposure to interest rate changes. we estimated that a one percent change in interest rates would result in changes in the fair market value of our investment portfolio of approximately $0.5 million and $1.4 million at december 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. the decrease in the impact of an interest rate change at december 31, 2005, compared to december 31, 2004, is due primarily to the shorter duration of our investment portfolio at the end of 2005.risk factors risk factors we operate in an environment that involves a number of significant risks and uncertainties. we caution you to read the following risk factors, which have affected, and/or in the future could affect, our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. the risks described below include forward-looking statements, and actual events and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. furthermore, additional risks and uncertainties are described under other captions in this report and should be considered by our investors. risks related to our financial results and need for additional financing we have had a history of operating losses and we may never achieve profitability. if we continue to incur operating losses, we may be unable to continue our operations. from inception on january 8, 1988 through december 31, 2006, we had a cumulative loss of $687.6 million. if we continue to incur operating losses and fail to become a profitable company, we may be unable to continue our operations. we have no products that are available for sale and do not know when we will have products available for sale, if ever. in the absence of revenue from the sale of products or other sources, the amount, timing, nature or source of which cannot be predicted, our losses will continue as we conduct our research and development activities. until october 31, 2006, we received contract manufacturing revenue from our agreement with merck and, until june 30, 2005, we received contract research and development revenue from our agreement with the procter gamble company. our agreement with procter gamble expired in june 2005 and our agreement with merck expired in october 2006. the expiration of these agreements has resulted in a significant loss of revenue to the company. we will need additional funding in the future, which may not be available to us, and which may force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts. we will need to expend substantial resources for research and development, including costs associated with clinical testing of our product candidates. we believe our existing capital resources will enable us to meet operating needs through at least early 2010, without taking into consideration the $200.0 million aggregate principal amount of convertible senior subordinated notes, which mature in october 2008; however, our projected revenue may decrease or our expenses may increase and that would lead to our capital being consumed significantly before such time. we will likely require additional financing in the future and we may not be able to raise such additional funds. if we are able to obtain additional financing through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, such sales may be dilutive to our shareholders. debt financing arrangements may require us to pledge certain assets or enter into covenants that would restrict our business activities or our ability to incur further indebtedness and may contain other terms that are not favorable to our shareholders. if we are unable to raise sufficient funds to complete the development of our product candidates, we may face delay, reduction or elimination of our research and development programs or preclinical or clinical trials, in which case our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially harmed. 12 table of contents we have a significant amount of debt and may have insufficient cash to satisfy our debt service and repayment obligations. in addition, the amount of our debt could impede our operations and flexibility. we have a significant amount of convertible debt and semi-annual interest payment obligations. this debt, unless converted to shares of our common stock, will mature in october 2008. we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments on our debt. even if we are able to meet our debt service obligations, the amount of debt we already have could hurt our ability to obtain any necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, or other purposes. in addition, our debt obligations could require us to use a substantial portion of cash to pay principal and interest on our debt, instead of applying those funds to other purposes, such as research and development, working capital, and capital expenditures. risks related to development of our product candidates successful development of any of our product candidates is highly uncertain. only a small minority of all research and development programs ultimately result in commercially successful drugs. we have never developed a drug that has been approved for marketing and sale, and we may never succeed in developing an approved drug. even if clinical trials demonstrate safety and effectiveness of any of our product candidates for a specific disease and the necessary regulatory approvals are obtained, the commercial success of any of our product candidates will depend upon their acceptance by patients, the medical community, and third-party payers and on our partners ability to successfully manufacture and commercialize our product candidates. our product candidates are delivered either by intravenous infusion or by intravitreal or subcutaneous injections, which are generally less well received by patients than tablet or capsule delivery. if our products are not successfully commercialized, we will not be able to recover the significant investment we have made in developing such products and our business would be severely harmed. we intend to study our lead product candidates, the vegf trap, vegf trap-eye, and il-1 trap, in a wide variety of indications. we intend to study the vegf trap in a variety of cancer settings, the vegf trap-eye in different eye diseases and ophthalmologic indications, and the il-1 trap in a variety of systemic inflammatory disorders. many of these current trials are exploratory studies designed to identify what diseases and uses, if any, are best suited for our product candidates. it is likely that our product candidates will not demonstrate the requisite efficacy and/or safety profile to support continued development for most of the indications that are to be studied. in fact, our product candidates may not demonstrate the requisite efficacy and safety profile to support the continued development for any of the indications or uses. clinical trials required for our product candidates are expensive and time-consuming, and their outcome is highly uncertain. if any of our drug trials are delayed or achieve unfavorable results, we will have to delay or may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates. we must conduct extensive testing of our product candidates before we can obtain regulatory approval to market and sell them. we need to conduct both preclinical animal testing and human clinical trials. conducting these trials is a lengthy, time-consuming, and expensive process. these tests and trials may not achieve favorable results for many reasons, including, among others, failure of the product candidate to demonstrate safety or efficacy, the development of serious or life-threatening adverse events (or side effects) caused by or connected with exposure to the product candidate, difficulty in enrolling and maintaining subjects in the clinical trial, lack of sufficient supplies of the product candidate or comparator drug, and the failure of clinical investigators, trial monitors and other consultants, or trial subjects to comply with the trial plan or protocol. a clinical trial may fail because it did not include a sufficient number of patients to detect the endpoint being measured or reach statistical significance. a clinical trial may also fail because the dose(s) of the investigational drug included in the trial were either too low or too high to determine the optimal effect of the investigational drug in the disease setting. for example, we are studying higher doses of the il-1 trap in different diseases after a phase 2 trial using lower doses of the il-1 trap in subjects with rheumatoid arthritis failed to achieve its primary endpoint. we will need to reevaluate any drug candidate that does not test favorably and either conduct new trials, which are expensive and time consuming, or abandon the drug development program. even if we obtain positive results 13 table of contents from preclinical or clinical trials, we may not achieve the same success in future trials. many companies in the biopharmaceutical industry, including us, have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, even after promising results have been obtained in earlier trials. the failure of clinical trials to demonstrate safety and effectiveness for the desired indication(s) could harm the development of the product candidate(s), and our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially harmed. the data from the phase 3 clinical program for the il-1 trap in caps (cryopyrin associated periodic syndromes) may be inadequate to support regulatory approval for commercialization of the il-1 trap. the efficacy and safety data from the phase 3 clinical program for the il-1 trap in caps may be inadequate to support approval for its commercialization in this indication. moreover, if the safety data from the ongoing clinical trials testing the il-1 trap are not satisfactory, we may not proceed with the filing of a biological license application, or bla, for the il-1 trap or we may be forced to delay the filing. the fda and other regulatory agencies may have varying interpretations of our clinical trial data, which could delay, limit, or prevent regulatory approval or clearance. further, before a product candidate is approved for marketing, our manufacturing facilities must be inspected by the fda and the fda will not approve the product for marketing if we or our third party manufacturers are not in compliance with current good manufacturing practices. even if the fda and similar foreign regulatory authorities do grant marketing approval for the il-1 trap, they may pose restrictions on the use or marketing of the product, or may require us to conduct additional post-marketing trials. these restrictions and requirements would likely result in increased expenditures and lower revenues and may restrict our ability to commercialize the il-1 trap profitably. in addition to the fda and other regulatory agency regulations in the united states, we are subject to a variety of foreign regulatory requirements governing human clinical trials, marketing and approval for drugs, and commercial sales and distribution of drugs in foreign countries. the foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with fda approval as well as country-specific regulations. whether or not we obtain fda approval for a product in the united states, we must obtain approval by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries before we can commence clinical trials or marketing of the il-1 trap in those countries. the development of serious or life-threatening side effects with any of our product candidates would lead to delay or discontinuation of development, which could severely harm our business. during the conduct of clinical trials, patients report changes in their health, including illnesses, injuries, and discomforts, to their study doctor. often, it is not possible to determine whether or not the drug candidate being studied caused these conditions. various illnesses, injuries, and discomforts have been reported from time-to-time during clinical trials of our product candidates. it is possible as we test our current drug candidates in larger, longer, and more extensive clinical programs, illnesses, injuries, and discomforts that were observed in earlier trials, as well as conditions that did not occur or went undetected in smaller previous trials, will be reported by patients. many times, side effects are only detectable after investigational drugs are tested in large scale, phase 3 clinical trials or, in some cases, after they are made available to patients after approval. if additional clinical experience indicates that any of our product candidates has many side effects or causes serious or life-threatening side effects, the development of the product candidate may fail or be delayed, which would severely harm our business. our vegf trap is being studied for the potential treatment of certain types of cancer and our vegf trap-eye candidate is being studied in diseases of the eye. there are many potential safety concerns associated with significant blockade of vascular endothelial growth factor, or vegf. these risks, based on the clinical and preclinical experience of systemically delivered vegf inhibitors, including the systemic delivery of the vegf trap, include bleeding, hypertension, and proteinuria. these serious side effects and other serious side effects have been reported in our systemic vegf trap studies in cancer and diseases of the eye. in addition, patients given infusions of any protein, including the vegf trap delivered through intravenous administration, may develop severe hypersensitivity reactions or infusion reactions. other vegf blockers have reported side effects that became evident only after large scale trials or after marketing approval and large numbers of patients were treated. these include side effects that we have not yet seen in our trials such as heart attack and stroke. these and other 14 table of contents complications or side effects could harm the development of the vegf trap for the treatment of cancer or the vegf trap-eye for the treatment of diseases of the eye. it is possible that safety or tolerability concerns may arise as we test higher doses of the il-1 trap in patients with other inflammatory diseases and disorders. like tnf-antagonists such as enbrel (amgen) and remicade (centocor), the il-1 trap affects the immune defense system of the body by blocking some of its functions. therefore, there may be an increased risk for infections to develop in patients treated with the il-1 trap. in addition, patients given infusions of the il-1 trap have developed hypersensitivity reactions or infusion reactions. these or other complications or side effects could impede or result in us abandoning the development of the il-1 trap. our product candidates in development are recombinant proteins that could cause an immune response, resulting in the creation of harmful or neutralizing antibodies against the therapeutic protein. in addition to the safety, efficacy, manufacturing, and regulatory hurdles faced by our product candidates, the administration of recombinant proteins frequently causes an immune response, resulting in the production of antibodies against the therapeutic protein. the antibodies can have no effect or can totally neutralize the effectiveness of the protein, or require that higher doses be used to obtain a therapeutic effect. in some cases, the antibody can cross react with the patient own proteins, resulting in an auto-immune type disease. whether antibodies will be created can often not be predicted from preclinical or clinical experiments, and their detection or appearance is often delayed, so that there can be no assurance that neutralizing antibodies will not be detected at a later date in some cases even after pivotal clinical trials have been completed. subjects who received il-1 trap in clinical trials have developed antibodies. it is possible that as we test the vegf trap and vegf trap-eye with more sensitive assays in different patient populations and larger clinical trials, we will find that subjects given the vegf trap and vegf trap-eye produce antibodies to these product candidates, which could adversely impact the development of such candidates. we may be unable to formulate or manufacture our product candidates in a way that is suitable for clinical or commercial use. changes in product formulations and manufacturing processes may be required as product candidates progress in clinical development and are ultimately commercialized. for example, we are currently testing a new formulation of the vegf trap-eye in a phase 1 trial. if we are unable to develop suitable product formulations or manufacturing processes to support large scale clinical testing of our product candidates, including the vegf trap, vegf trap-eye, and il-1 trap, we may be unable to supply necessary materials for our clinical trials, which would delay the development of our product candidates. similarly, if we are unable to supply sufficient quantities of our product or develop product formulations suitable for commercial use, we will not be able to successfully commercialize our product candidates. risks related to intellectual property if we cannot protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets or our patents are insufficient to protect our proprietary rights, our business and competitive position will be harmed. our business requires using sensitive and proprietary technology and other information that we protect as trade secrets. we seek to prevent improper disclosure of these trade secrets through confidentiality agreements. if our trade secrets are improperly exposed, either by our own employees or our collaborators, it would help our competitors and adversely affect our business. we will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our rights are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. the patent position of biotechnology companies involves complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, enforceability cannot be predicted with certainty. our patents may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented. patent applications filed outside the united states may be challenged by third parties who file an opposition. such opposition proceedings are increasingly common in the european union and are costly to defend. we have patent applications that are being opposed and it is likely that we will need to defend additional patent applications in the future. our patent rights may not provide us with a proprietary position or 15 table of contents competitive advantages against competitors. furthermore, even if the outcome is favorable to us, the enforcement of our intellectual property rights can be extremely expensive and time consuming. we may be restricted in our development and/or commercialization activities by, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed, third party patents or other proprietary rights. our commercial success depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of third parties. other parties may allege that they have blocking patents to our products in clinical development, either because they claim to hold proprietary rights to the composition of a product or the way it is manufactured or used. moreover, other parties may allege that they have blocking patents to antibody products made using our velocimmune technology, either because of the way the antibodies are discovered or produced or because of a proprietary position covering an antibody or the antibody target. we are aware of patents and pending applications owned by genentech that claim certain chimeric vegf receptor compositions. although we do not believe that the vegf trap or vegf trap-eye infringes any valid claim in these patents or patent applications, genentech could initiate a lawsuit for patent infringement and assert its patents are valid and cover the vegf trap or vegf trap-eye. genentech may be motivated to initiate such a lawsuit at some point in an effort to impair our ability to develop and sell the vegf trap or vegf trap-eye, which represents a potential competitive threat to genentech vegf-binding products and product candidates. an adverse determination by a court in any such potential patent litigation would likely materially harm our business by requiring us to seek a license, which may not be available, or resulting in our inability to manufacture, develop and sell the vegf trap or vegf trap-eye or in a damage award. any patent holders could sue us for damages and seek to prevent us from manufacturing, selling, or developing our drug candidates, and a court may find that we are infringing validly issued patents of third parties. in the event that the manufacture, use, or sale of any of our clinical candidates infringes on the patents or violates other proprietary rights of third parties, we may be prevented from pursuing product development, manufacturing, and commercialization of our drugs and may be required to pay costly damages. such a result may materially harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. legal disputes are likely to be costly and time consuming to defend. we seek to obtain licenses to patents when, in our judgment, such licenses are needed. if any licenses are required, we may not be able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. the failure to obtain any such license could prevent us from developing or commercializing any one or more of our product candidates, which could severely harm our business. regulatory and litigation risks if we do not obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, we will not be able to market or sell them. we cannot sell or market products without regulatory approval. if we do not obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our product candidates, the value of our company and our results of operations will be harmed. in the united states, we must obtain and maintain approval from the fda for each drug we intend to sell. obtaining fda approval is typically a lengthy and expensive process, and approval is highly uncertain. foreign governments also regulate drugs distributed in their country and approval in any country is likely to be a lengthy and expensive process, and approval is highly uncertain. none of our product candidates has ever received regulatory approval to be marketed and sold in the united states or any other country. we may never receive regulatory approval for any of our product candidates. before approving a new drug or biologic product, the fda requires that the facilities at which the product will be manufactured be in compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cgmp requirements. manufacturing product candidates in compliance with these regulatory requirements is complex, time-consuming, and expensive. to be successful, our products must be manufactured for development, and following approval in commercial quantities, in compliance with regulatory requirements, and at competitive costs. if we or any of our product collaborators or third-party manufacturers, product packagers, or labelers are unable to maintain regulatory 16 table of contents compliance, the fda can impose regulatory sanctions, including, among other things, refusal to approve a pending application for a new drug or biologic product, or revocation of a pre-existing approval. as a result, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially harmed. if the testing or use of our products harms people, we could be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims. we could also face costly and damaging claims arising from employment law, securities law, environmental law, or other applicable laws governing our operations. the testing, manufacturing, marketing, and sale of drugs for use in people expose us to product liability risk. any informed consent or waivers obtained from people who are enrolled in our clinical trials may not protect us from liability or the cost of litigation. our product liability insurance may not cover all potential liabilities or may not completely cover any liability arising from any such litigation. moreover, we may not have access to liability insurance or be able to maintain our insurance on acceptable terms. our operations may involve hazardous materials and are subject to environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations. we may incur substantial liability arising from our activities involving the use of hazardous materials. as a biopharmaceutical company with significant manufacturing operations, we are subject to extensive environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations, including those governing the use of hazardous materials. our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of chemicals, viruses, radioactive compounds, and other hazardous materials. the cost of compliance with environmental, health, and safety regulations is substantial. if an accident involving these materials or an environmental discharge were to occur, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, or face regulatory actions, which could exceed our resources or insurance coverage. changes in the securities laws and regulations have increased, and are likely to continue to increase, our costs. the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, which became law in july 2002, has required changes in some of our corporate governance, securities disclosure and compliance practices. pursuant to the requirements of that act, the sec and the nasdaq stock market have promulgated rules and listing standards covering a variety of subjects. compliance with these new rules and listing standards has increased our legal costs, and significantly increased our accounting and auditing costs, and we expect these costs to continue. these developments may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain directors and officers liability insurance. likewise, these developments may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly independent directors, or qualified executive officers. risks related to our dependence on third parties if our collaboration with sanofi-aventis for the vegf trap is terminated, our business operations and our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize the vegf trap in the time expected, or at all, would be harmed. we rely heavily on sanofi-aventis to assist with the development of the vegf trap oncology program. sanofi-aventis funds all of the development expenses incurred by both companies in connection with the vegf trap oncology program. if the vegf trap oncology program continues, we will rely on sanofi-aventis to assist with funding the vegf trap program, provide commercial manufacturing capacity, enroll and monitor clinical trials, obtain regulatory approval, particularly outside the united states, and provide sales and marketing support. while we cannot assure you that the vegf trap will ever be successfully developed and commercialized, if sanofi-aventis does not perform its obligations in a timely manner, or at all, our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize the vegf trap in cancer indications will be significantly adversely affected. sanofi-aventis has the right to terminate its collaboration agreement with us at any time upon twelve months advance notice. if sanofi-aventis were to terminate its collaboration agreement with us, we would not have the resources or skills to replace those of our partner, which could cause significant delays in the development and/or manufacture of the vegf trap and result in 17 table of contents substantial additional costs to us. we have no sales, marketing, or distribution capabilities and would have to develop or outsource these capabilities. termination of the sanofi-aventis collaboration agreement would create substantial new and additional risks to the successful development of the vegf trap oncology program. if our collaboration with bayer healthcare for the vegf trap-eye is terminated, our business operations and our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize the vegf trap-eye in the time expected, or at all, would be harmed. we will rely heavily on bayer healthcare to assist with the development of the vegf trap-eye. under our agreement with them, bayer healthcare is required to fund approximately half of the development expenses incurred by both companies in connection with the global vegf trap-eye development program. if the vegf trap-eye program continues, we will rely on bayer healthcare to assist with funding the vegf trap-eye development program, providing assistance with the enrollment and monitoring of clinical trials conducted outside the united states, obtaining regulatory approval outside the united states, and providing sales, marketing and commercial support for the product outside the united states. in particular, bayer healthcare has responsibility for selling vegf trap-eye outside the united states using its sales force. while we cannot assure you that the vegf trap-eye will ever be successfully developed and commercialized, if bayer healthcare does not perform its obligations in a timely manner, or at all, our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize the vegf trap-eye outside the united states will be significantly adversely affected. bayer healthcare has the right to terminate its collaboration agreement with us at any time upon six or twelve months advance notice, depending on the circumstances giving rise to termination. if bayer healthcare were to terminate its collaboration agreement with us, we would not have the resources or skills to replace those of our partner, which could cause significant delays in the development and/or commercialization of the vegf trap-eye outside the united states and result in substantial additional costs to us. we have no sales, marketing, or distribution capabilities and would have to develop or outsource these capabilities outside the united states. termination of the bayer healthcare collaboration agreement would create substantial new and additional risks to the successful development of the vegf trap-eye development program. our collaborators and service providers may fail to perform adequately in their efforts to support the development, manufacture, and commercialization of our drug candidates. we depend upon third-party collaborators, including sanofi-aventis, bayer healthcare, and service providers such as clinical research organizations, outside testing laboratories, clinical investigator sites, and third-party manufacturers and product packagers and labelers, to assist us in the development of our product candidates. if any of our existing collaborators or service providers breaches or terminates its agreement with us or does not perform its development or manufacturing services under an agreement in a timely manner or at all, we could experience additional costs, delays, and difficulties in the development or commercialization of our product candidates. risks related to the manufacture of our product candidates we have limited manufacturing capacity, which could inhibit our ability to successfully develop or commercialize our drugs. our manufacturing facility is likely to be inadequate to produce sufficient quantities of product for commercial sale. we intend to rely on our corporate collaborators, as well as contract manufacturers, to produce the large quantities of drug material needed for commercialization of our products. we rely entirely on third-party manufacturers for filling and finishing services. we will have to depend on these manufacturers to deliver material on a timely basis and to comply with regulatory requirements. if we are unable to supply sufficient material on acceptable terms, or if we should encounter delays or difficulties in our relationships with our corporate collaborators or contract manufacturers, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially harmed. we may expand our own manufacturing capacity to support commercial production of active pharmaceutical ingredients, or api, for our product candidates. this will require substantial additional funds, and we will need to hire and train significant numbers of employees and managerial personnel to staff our facility. start-up costs can be 18 table of contents large and scale-up entails significant risks related to process development and manufacturing yields. we may be unable to develop manufacturing facilities that are sufficient to produce drug material for clinical trials or commercial use. in addition, we may be unable to secure adequate filling and finishing services to support our products. as a result, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially harmed. we may be unable to obtain key raw materials and supplies for the manufacture of our product candidates. in addition, we may face difficulties in developing or acquiring production technology and managerial personnel to manufacture sufficient quantities of our product candidates at reasonable costs and in compliance with applicable quality assurance and environmental regulations and governmental permitting requirements. if any of our clinical programs are discontinued, we may face costs related to the unused capacity at our manufacturing facilities. we have large-scale manufacturing operations in rensselaer, new york. we use our facilities to produce bulk product for clinical and preclinical candidates for ourselves and our collaborations. if our clinical candidates are discontinued, we will have to absorb one hundred percent of related overhead costs and inefficiencies. certain of our raw materials are single-sourced from third parties; third-party supply failures could adversely affect our ability to supply our products. certain raw materials necessary for manufacturing and formulation of our product candidates are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. we would be unable to obtain these raw materials for an indeterminate period of time if these third-party single-source suppliers were to cease or interrupt production or otherwise fail to supply these materials or products to us for any reason, including due to regulatory requirements or action, due to adverse financial developments at or affecting the supplier, or due to labor shortages or disputes. this, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our ability to manufacture our product candidates for use in clinical trials, which could materially and adversely affect our business and future prospects. also, certain of the raw materials required in the manufacture and the formulation of our clinical candidates may be derived from biological sources, including mammalian tissues, bovine serum, and human serum albumin. there are certain european regulatory restrictions on using these biological source materials. if we are required to substitute for these sources to comply with european regulatory requirements, our clinical development activities may be delayed or interrupted. risks related to commercialization of products if we are unable to establish sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities, or enter into agreements with third parties to do so, we will be unable to successfully market and sell future products. we have no sales or distribution personnel or capabilities and have only a small staff with marketing capabilities. if we are unable to obtain those capabilities, either by developing our own organizations or entering into agreements with service providers, we will not be able to successfully sell any products that we may obtain regulatory approval for and bring to market in the future. in that event, we will not be able to generate significant revenue, even if our product candidates are approved. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to hire the qualified sales and marketing personnel we need or that we will be able to enter into marketing or distribution agreements with third-party providers on acceptable terms, if at all. under the terms of our collaboration agreement with sanofi-aventis, we currently rely on sanofi-aventis for sales, marketing, and distribution of the vegf trap in cancer indications, should it be approved in the future by regulatory authorities for marketing. we will have to rely on a third party or devote significant resources to develop our own sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities for our other product candidates, including the vegf trap-eye in the united states, and we may be unsuccessful in developing our own sales, marketing, and distribution organization. 19 table of contents even if our product candidates are approved for marketing, their commercial success is highly uncertain because our competitors have received approval for products with the same mechanism of action, and competitors may get to the marketplace before we do with better or lower cost drugs or the market for our product candidates may be too small to support commercialization or sufficient profitability. we face substantial competition from pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and chemical companies. many of our competitors have substantially greater research, preclinical and clinical product development and manufacturing capabilities, and financial, marketing, and human resources than we do. our smaller competitors may also enhance their competitive position if they acquire or discover patentable inventions, form collaborative arrangements, or merge with large pharmaceutical companies. even if we achieve product commercialization, our competitors have achieved, and may continue to achieve, product commercialization before our products are approved for marketing and sale. genentech has an approved vegf antagonist, avastin (genentech), on the market for treating certain cancers and a number of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are working to develop competing vegf antagonists, including novartis, osi pharmaceuticals, and pfizer. many of these molecules are further along in development than the vegf trap and may offer competitive advantages over our molecule. novartis has an ongoing phase 3 clinical development program evaluating an orally delivered vegf tyrosine kinase inhibitor in different cancer settings. each of pfizer and onyx pharmaceuticals (together with its partner bayer) has received approval from the fda to market and sell an oral medication that targets tumor cell growth and new vasculature formation that fuels the growth of tumors. the marketing approvals for genentech vegf antagonist, avastin, and their extensive, ongoing clinical development plan for avastin in other cancer indications, may make it more difficult for us to enroll patients in clinical trials to support the vegf trap and to obtain regulatory approval of the vegf trap in these cancer settings. this may delay or impair our ability to successfully develop and commercialize the vegf trap. in addition, even if the vegf trap is ever approved for sale for the treatment of certain cancers, it will be difficult for our drug to compete against avastin and the fda approved kinase inhibitors, because doctors and patients will have significant experience using these medicines. in addition, an oral medication may be considerably less expensive for patients than a biologic medication, providing a competitive advantage to companies that market such products. the market for eye disease products is also very competitive. novartis and genentech are collaborating on the commercialization and further development of a vegf antibody fragment (lucentis ) for the treatment of age-related macular degeneration (wet amd) and other eye indications that was approved by the fda in june 2006. osi pharmaceuticals and pfizer are marketing an approved vegf inhibitor (macugen ) for wet amd. many other companies are working on the development of product candidates for the potential treatment of wet amd that act by blocking vegf, vegf receptors, and through the use of soluble ribonucleic acids (srnas) that modulate gene expression. in addition, ophthalmologists are using off-label a third-party reformulated version of genentech approved vegf antagonist, avastin, with success for the treatment of wet amd. the national eye institute recently has received funding for a phase 3 trial to compare lucentis to avastin in the treatment of wet amd. the marketing approval of macugen and lucentis and the potential off-label use of avastin make it more difficult for us to enroll patients in our clinical trials and successfully develop the vegf trap-eye. even if the vegf trap-eye is ever approved for sale for the treatment of eye diseases, it may be difficult for our drug to compete against lucentis or macugen, because doctors and patients will have significant experience using these medicines. moreover, the relatively low cost of therapy with avastin in patients with wet amd presents a further competitive challenge in this indication. the availability of highly effective fda approved tnf-antagonists such as enbrel (amgen), remicade (centocor), and humira (abbott laboratories), and the il-1 receptor antagonist kineret (amgen), and other marketed therapies, makes it more difficult to successfully develop and commercialize the il-1 trap. this is one of the reasons we discontinued the development of the il-1 trap in adult rheumatoid arthritis. in addition, even if the il-1 trap is ever approved for sale, it will be difficult for our drug to compete against these fda approved tnf-antagonists in indications where both are useful because doctors and patients will have significant experience using these effective medicines. moreover, in such indications these approved therapeutics may offer competitive advantages over the il-1 trap, such as requiring fewer injections. 20 table of contents there are both small molecules and antibodies in development by third parties that are designed to block the synthesis of interleukin-1 or inhibit the signaling of interleukin-1. for example, eli lilly and company and novartis are each developing antibodies to interleukin-1 and amgen is developing an antibody to the interleukin-1 receptor. these drug candidates could offer competitive advantages over the il-1 trap. the successful development of these competing molecules could delay or impair our ability to successfully develop and commercialize the il-1 trap. for example, we may find it difficult to enroll patients in clinical trials for the il-1 trap if the companies developing these competing interleukin-1 inhibitors commence clinical trials in the same indications. we are developing the il-1 trap for the treatment of a spectrum of rare diseases associated with mutations in the cias 1 gene. these rare genetic disorders affect a small group of people, estimated to be between several hundred and a few thousand. there may be too few patients with these genetic disorders to profitably commercialize the il-1 trap in this indication. the successful commercialization of our product candidates will depend on obtaining coverage and reimbursement for use of these products from third-party payers and these payers may not agree to cover or reimburse for use of our products. our products, if commercialized, may be significantly more expensive than traditional drug treatments. our future revenues and profitability will be adversely affected if united states and foreign governmental, private third-party insurers and payers, and other third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid, do not agree to defray or reimburse the cost of our products to the patients. if these entities refuse to provide coverage and reimbursement with respect to our products or provide an insufficient level of coverage and reimbursement, our products may be too costly for many patients to afford them, and physicians may not prescribe them. many third-party payers cover only selected drugs, making drugs that are not preferred by such payer more expensive for patients, and require prior authorization or failure on another type of treatment before covering a particular drug. payers may especially impose these obstacles to coverage on higher-priced drugs, as our product candidates are likely to be. we intend to file an application with the fda seeking approval to market the il-1 trap for the treatment of a spectrum of rare genetic disorders called caps. there may be too few patients with caps to profitably commercialize the il-1 trap. physicians may not prescribe the il-1 trap and caps patients may not be able to afford the il-1 trap if third party payers do not agree to reimburse the cost of il-1 trap therapy and this would adversely affect our ability to commercialize the il-1 trap profitably. in addition to potential restrictions on coverage, the amount of reimbursement for our products may also reduce our profitability. in the united states, there have been, and we expect will continue to be, actions and proposals to control and reduce healthcare costs. government and other third-party payers are challenging the prices charged for healthcare products and increasingly limiting, and attempting to limit, both coverage and level of reimbursement for prescription drugs. since our products, including the il-1 trap, will likely be too expensive for most patients to afford without health insurance coverage, if our products are unable to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement by third-party payers our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates may be adversely impacted. any limitation on the use of our products or any decrease in the price of our products will have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve profitability. in certain foreign countries, pricing, coverage and level of reimbursement of prescription drugs are subject to governmental control, and we may be unable to negotiate coverage, pricing, and reimbursement on terms that are favorable to us. in some foreign countries, the proposed pricing for a drug must be approved before it may be lawfully marketed. the requirements governing drug pricing vary widely from country to country. for example, the european union provides options for its member states to restrict the range of medicinal products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices of medicinal products for human use. a member state may approve a specific price for the medicinal product or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the medicinal product on the market. our results of operations may suffer if we are unable to market our products in foreign countries or if coverage and reimbursement for our products in foreign countries is limited. 21 table of contents risk related to employees we are dependent on our key personnel and if we cannot recruit and retain leaders in our research, development, manufacturing, and commercial organizations, our business will be harmed. we are highly dependent on certain of our executive officers. if we are not able to retain any of these persons or our chairman, our business may suffer. in particular, we depend on the services of p. roy vagelos, m.d., the chairman of our board of directors, leonard schleifer, m.d., ph.d., our president and chief executive officer, george d. yancopoulos, m.d., ph.d., our executive vice president, chief scientific officer and president, regeneron research laboratories, and neil stahl, ph.d., our senior vice president, research and development sciences. there is intense competition in the biotechnology industry for qualified scientists and managerial personnel in the development, manufacture, and commercialization of drugs. we may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for developing our business. risks related to our common stock our stock price is extremely volatile. there has been significant volatility in our stock price and generally in the market prices of biotechnology companies securities. various factors and events may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. these factors include, by way of example: progress, delays, or adverse results in clinical trials; announcement of technological innovations or product candidates by us or competitors; fluctuations in our operating results; public concern as to the safety or effectiveness of our product candidates; developments in our relationship with collaborative partners; developments in the biotechnology industry or in government regulation of healthcare; large sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors, or significant shareholders; arrivals and departures of key personnel; and general market conditions. the trading price of our common stock has been, and could continue to be, subject to wide fluctuations in response to these and other factors, including the sale or attempted sale of a large amount of our common stock in the market. broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the market price of our common stock. in future years, if we or our independent registered public accounting firm are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, the market value of our common stock could be adversely affected. as directed by section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, the sec adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on form 10-k that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. in addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing our financial statements must attest to and report on management assessment and on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. our independent registered public accounting firm provided us with an unqualified report as to our assessment and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2006, which report is included in this annual report on form 10-k. however, we cannot assure you that management or our independent registered public accounting firm will be able to provide such an assessment or unqualified report as of future year-ends. in this event, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the market value of our common stock. 22 table of contents future sales of our common stock by our significant shareholders or us may depress our stock price and impair our ability to raise funds in new share offerings. a small number of our shareholders beneficially own a substantial amount of our common stock. as of december 31, 2006, our seven largest shareholders, including sanofi-aventis, beneficially owned 41.1% of our outstanding shares of common stock, assuming, in the case of leonard s. schleifer, m.d. ph.d., our chief executive officer, and p. roy vagelos, m.d., our chairman, the conversion of their class a stock into common stock and the exercise of all options held by them which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2006. as of december 31, 2006, sanofi-aventis owned 2,799,552 shares of common stock, representing 4.4% of the shares of common stock then outstanding. under our stock purchase agreement with sanofi-aventis, sanofi-aventis may sell no more than 500,000 of these shares in any calendar quarter. if sanofi-aventis, or our other significant shareholders or we, sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur exists, the market price of our common stock could fall. sales of common stock by our significant shareholders, including sanofi-aventis, also might make it more difficult for us to raise funds by selling equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. our existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval. holders of class a stock, who are generally the shareholders who purchased their stock from us before our initial public offering, are entitled to ten votes per share, while holders of common stock are entitled to one vote per share. as of december 31, 2006, holders of class a stock held 26.5% of the combined voting power of all of common stock and class a stock then outstanding. these shareholders, if acting together, would be in a position to significantly influence the election of our directors and to effect or prevent certain corporate transactions that require majority or supermajority approval of the combined classes, including mergers and other business combinations. this may result in our company taking corporate actions that you may not consider to be in your best interest and may affect the price of our common stock. as of december 31, 2006: our current officers and directors beneficially owned 13.3% of our outstanding shares of common stock, assuming conversion of their class a stock into common stock and the exercise of all options held by such persons which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2006, and 30.5% of the combined voting power of our outstanding shares of common stock and class a stock, assuming the exercise of all options held by such persons which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2006; and our seven largest shareholders beneficially owned 41.1% of our outstanding shares of common stock assuming, in the case of leonard s. schleifer, m.d., ph.d., our chief executive officer, and p. roy vagelos, m.d., our chairman, the conversion of their class a stock into common stock and the exercise of all options held by them which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2006. in addition, these seven shareholders held 48.7% of the combined voting power of our outstanding shares of common stock and class a stock, assuming the exercise of all options held by our chief executive officer and our chairman which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2006. the anti-takeover effects of provisions of our charter, by-laws, and of new york corporate law, could deter, delay, or prevent an acquisition or other change in control of us and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our by-laws and the new york business corporation law contain various provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company or our management that shareholders may consider favorable or beneficial. some of these provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other shareholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. these provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. these provisions include: authorization to issue blank check preferred stock, which is preferred stock that can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior shareholder approval, with rights senior to those of our common shareholders; 23 table of contents a staggered board of directors, so that it would take three successive annual meetings to replace all of our directors; a requirement that removal of directors may only be effected for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of at least eighty percent (80%) of the outstanding shares entitled to vote for directors, as well as a requirement that any vacancy on the board of directors may be filled only by the remaining directors; any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of shareholders may be taken without a meeting, only if, prior to such action, all of our shareholders consent, the effect of which is to require that shareholder action may only be taken at a duly convened meeting; any shareholder seeking to bring business before an annual meeting of shareholders must provide timely notice of this intention in writing and meet various other requirements; and under the new york business corporation law, a plan of merger or consolidation of the company must be approved by two-thirds of the votes of all outstanding shares entitled to vote thereon. see the risk factor immediately above captioned our existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval. in addition, we have a change in control severance plan and our chief executive officer has an employment agreement that provides severance benefits in the event our officers are terminated as a result of a change in control of the company. many of our stock options issued under our 2000 long-term incentive plan may become fully vested in connection with a change in control of our company, as defined in the plan. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk our earnings and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to changes in interest rates primarily from our investment of available cash balances in investment grade corporate, asset-backed, and u.s. government securities. we do not believe we are materially exposed to changes in interest rates. under our current policies we do not use interest rate derivative instruments to manage exposure to interest rate changes. we estimated that a one percent change in interest rates would result in changes in the fair market value of our investment portfolio of approximately $1.7 million and $0.5 million at december 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. the increase in the impact of an interest rate change at december 31, 2006, compared to december 31, 2005, is due primarily to increases in our investment portfolio balance and duration to maturity at the end of 2006 versus the end of 2005.risk factors we operate in an environment that involves a number of significant risks and uncertainties. we caution you to read the following risk factors, which have affected, and/or in the future could affect, our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. the risks described below include forward-looking statements, and actual events and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair 12 our business operations. furthermore, additional risks and uncertainties are described under other captions in this report and should be considered by our investors. risks related to our financial results and need for additional financing we have had a history of operating losses and we may never achieve profitability. if we continue to incur operating losses, we may be unable to continue our operations. from inception on january 8, 1988 through december 31, 2007, we had a cumulative loss of $793.2 million. if we continue to incur operating losses and fail to become a profitable company, we may be unable to continue our operations. we have no products that are available for sale and do not know when we will have products available for sale, if ever. in the absence of revenue from the sale of products or other sources, the amount, timing, nature or source of which cannot be predicted, our losses will continue as we conduct our research and development activities. we may need additional funding in the future, which may not be available to us, and which may force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts. we will need to expend substantial resources for research and development, including costs associated with clinical testing of our product candidates. we believe our existing capital resources, including funding we are entitled to receive under our collaboration agreements, will enable us to meet operating needs through at least 2012; however, one or more of our collaboration agreements may terminate, our projected revenue may decrease, or our expenses may increase and that would lead to our capital being consumed significantly before such time. we may require additional financing in the future and we may not be able to raise such additional funds. if we are able to obtain additional financing through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, such sales may be dilutive to our shareholders. debt financing arrangements may require us to pledge certain assets or enter into covenants that would restrict our business activities or our ability to incur further indebtedness and may contain other terms that are not favorable to our shareholders. if we are unable to raise sufficient funds to complete the development of our product candidates, we may face delay, reduction or elimination of our research and development programs or preclinical or clinical trials, in which case our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially harmed. we have a significant amount of debt that is scheduled to mature in 2008. we have $200.0 million of convertible debt that, unless converted to shares of our common stock, will mature in october 2008. our debt obligations could require us to use a significant portion of our cash to pay principal and interest on our debt. risks related to development of our product candidates successful development of any of our product candidates is highly uncertain. only a small minority of all research and development programs ultimately result in commercially successful drugs. we have never developed a drug that has been approved for marketing and sale, and we may never succeed in developing an approved drug. even if clinical trials demonstrate safety and effectiveness of any of our product candidates for a specific disease and the necessary regulatory approvals are obtained, the commercial success of any of our product candidates will depend upon their acceptance by patients, the medical community, and third-party payers and on our partners ability to successfully manufacture and commercialize our product candidates. our product candidates are delivered either by intravenous infusion or by intravitreal or subcutaneous injections, which are generally less well received by patients than tablet or capsule delivery. if our products are not successfully commercialized, we will not be able to recover the significant investment we have made in developing such products and our business would be severely harmed. we are studying our lead product candidates, aflibercept, vegf trap-eye, and arcalyst tm , in a wide variety of indications. we are studying aflibercept in a variety of cancer settings, the vegf trap-eye in different eye diseases and ophthalmologic indications, and arcalyst tm in a variety of systemic inflammatory disorders. 13 many of these current trials are exploratory studies designed to identify what diseases and uses, if any, are best suited for our product candidates. it is likely that our product candidates will not demonstrate the requisite efficacy and/or safety profile to support continued development for most of the indications that are being, or are planned to be, studied. in fact, our product candidates may not demonstrate the requisite efficacy and safety profile to support the continued development for any of the indications or uses. clinical trials required for our product candidates are expensive and time-consuming, and their outcome is highly uncertain. if any of our drug trials are delayed or achieve unfavorable results, we will have to delay or may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates. we must conduct extensive testing of our product candidates before we can obtain regulatory approval to market and sell them. we need to conduct both preclinical animal testing and human clinical trials. conducting these trials is a lengthy, time-consuming, and expensive process. these tests and trials may not achieve favorable results for many reasons, including, among others, failure of the product candidate to demonstrate safety or efficacy, the development of serious or life-threatening adverse events (or side effects) caused by or connected with exposure to the product candidate, difficulty in enrolling and maintaining subjects in the clinical trial, lack of sufficient supplies of the product candidate or comparator drug, and the failure of clinical investigators, trial monitors and other consultants, or trial subjects to comply with the trial plan or protocol. a clinical trial may fail because it did not include a sufficient number of patients to detect the endpoint being measured or reach statistical significance. a clinical trial may also fail because the dose(s) of the investigational drug included in the trial were either too low or too high to determine the optimal effect of the investigational drug in the disease setting. for example, we are studying higher doses of arcalyst tm in different diseases after a phase 2 trial using lower doses of arcalyst tm in subjects with rheumatoid arthritis failed to achieve its primary endpoint. we will need to reevaluate any drug candidate that does not test favorably and either conduct new trials, which are expensive and time consuming, or abandon the drug development program. even if we obtain positive results from preclinical or clinical trials, we may not achieve the same success in future trials. many companies in the biopharmaceutical industry, including us, have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, even after promising results have been obtained in earlier trials. the failure of clinical trials to demonstrate safety and effectiveness for the desired indication(s) could harm the development of the product candidate(s), and our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially harmed. the data from the phase 3 clinical program for arcalyst tm in caps (cryopyrin-associated periodic syndromes) may be inadequate to support regulatory approval for commercialization of arcalyst tm . we submitted a completed bla to the fda for arcalyst tm in caps in the second quarter of 2007. however, the efficacy and safety data from the phase 3 clinical program included in the bla may be inadequate to support approval for commercialization of arcalyst tm . the fda and other regulatory agencies may have varying interpretations of our clinical trial data, which could delay, limit, or prevent regulatory approval or clearance. further, before a product candidate is approved for marketing, our manufacturing facilities must be inspected by the fda and the fda will not approve the product for marketing if we or our third party manufacturers are not in compliance with current good manufacturing practices. even if the fda and similar foreign regulatory authorities do grant marketing approval for arcalyst tm , they may pose restrictions on the use or marketing of the product, or may require us to conduct additional post-marketing trials. these restrictions and requirements would likely result in increased expenditures and lower revenues and may restrict our ability to commercialize arcalyst tm profitably. in addition to the fda and other regulatory agency regulations in the united states, we are subject to a variety of foreign regulatory requirements governing human clinical trials, marketing and approval for drugs, and commercial sales and distribution of drugs in foreign countries. the foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with fda approval as well as country-specific regulations. whether or not we obtain fda approval for a product in the united states, we must obtain approval by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries before we can commence clinical trials or marketing of arcalyst tm in those countries. 14 serious complications or side effects have occurred, and may continue to occur, in clinical trials of some of our product candidates which could lead to delay or discontinuation of development and severely harm our business. during the conduct of clinical trials, patients report changes in their health, including illnesses, injuries, and discomforts, to their study doctor. often, it is not possible to determine whether or not the drug candidate being studied caused these conditions. various illnesses, injuries, and discomforts have been reported from time-to-time during clinical trials of our product candidates. it is possible as we test our drug candidates in larger, longer, and more extensive clinical programs, illnesses, injuries, and discomforts that were observed in earlier trials, as well as conditions that did not occur or went undetected in smaller previous trials, will be reported by patients. many times, side effects are only detectable after investigational drugs are tested in large scale, phase 3 clinical trials or, in some cases, after they are made available to patients after approval. if additional clinical experience indicates that any of our product candidates has many side effects or causes serious or life-threatening side effects, the development of the product candidate may fail or be delayed, which would severely harm our business. our aflibercept (vegf trap) is being studied for the potential treatment of certain types of cancer and our vegf trap-eye candidate is being studied in diseases of the eye. there are many potential safety concerns associated with significant blockade of vascular endothelial growth factor, or vegf. these serious and potentially life-threatening risks, based on the clinical and preclinical experience of systemically delivered vegf inhibitors, including the systemic delivery of the vegf trap, include bleeding, intestinal perforation, hypertension, and proteinuria. these serious side effects and other serious side effects have been reported in our systemic vegf trap studies in cancer and diseases of the eye. in addition, patients given infusions of any protein, including the vegf trap delivered through intravenous administration, may develop severe hypersensitivity reactions or infusion reactions. other vegf blockers have reported side effects that became evident only after large scale trials or after marketing approval and large number of patients were treated. these include side effects that we have not yet seen in our trials such as heart attack and stroke. these and other complications or side effects could harm the development of aflibercept for the treatment of cancer or the vegf trap-eye for the treatment of diseases of the eye. it is possible that safety or tolerability concerns may arise as we continue to test arcalyst tm in patients with inflammatory diseases and disorders. like cytokine antagonists such as kineret (amgen), enbrel (immunex), and remicade (centocor), arcalyst tm affects the immune defense system of the body by blocking some of its functions. therefore, arcalyst tm may interfere with the body ability to fight infections. treatment with kineret (amgen), a medication that works through the inhibition of il-1, has been associated with an increased risk of serious infections, and serious infections have been reported in patients taking arcalyst tm . one subject with adult still diseases in a study of arcalyst tm developed an infection in his elbow with mycobacterium intracellulare. the patient was on chronic glucocorticoid treatment for still disease. the infection occurred after an intraarticular glucocorticoid injection into the elbow and subsequent local exposure to a suspected source of mycobacteria. one patient with polymayalgia rheumatica in another study developed bronchitis/sinusitis, which resulted in hospitalization. one patient in an open-label study of arcalyst tm in caps developed sinusitis and streptococcus pneumoniae meningitis and subsequently died. in addition, patients given infusions of arcalyst tm have developed hypersensitivity reactions or infusion reactions. these or other complications or side effects could impede or result in us abandoning the development of arcalyst tm . our product candidates in development are recombinant proteins that could cause an immune response, resulting in the creation of harmful or neutralizing antibodies against the therapeutic protein. in addition to the safety, efficacy, manufacturing, and regulatory hurdles faced by our product candidates, the administration of recombinant proteins frequently causes an immune response, resulting in the creation of antibodies against the therapeutic protein. the antibodies can have no effect or can totally neutralize the effectiveness of the protein, or require that higher doses be used to obtain a therapeutic effect. in some cases, the antibody can cross react with the patient own proteins, resulting in an auto-immune type disease. whether antibodies will be created can often not be predicted from preclinical or clinical experiments, and their detection or appearance is often delayed, so that there can be no assurance that neutralizing antibodies will not be detected at a later date, in some cases even after pivotal clinical trials have been completed. of the clinical study subjects who 15 received arcalyst tm for rheumatoid arthritis and other indications, fewer than 5% of patients developed antibodies and no side effects related to antibodies were observed. using a very sensitive test, approximately 40% of the patients in the caps pivotal study tested positive at least once for low levels of antibodies to arcalyst tm . again, no side effects related to antibodies were observed and there were no observed effects on drug efficacy or drug levels. however, it is possible that as we continue to test aflibercept and vegf trap-eye with more sensitive assays in different patient populations and larger clinical trials, we will find that subjects given aflibercept and vegf trap-eye develop antibodies to these product candidates, and may also experience side effects related to the antibodies, which could adversely impact the development of such candidates. we may be unable to formulate or manufacture our product candidates in a way that is suitable for clinical or commercial use. changes in product formulations and manufacturing processes may be required as product candidates progress in clinical development and are ultimately commercialized. for example, we are currently testing a new formulation of the vegf trap-eye. if we are unable to develop suitable product formulations or manufacturing processes to support large scale clinical testing of our product candidates, including aflibercept, vegf trap-eye, arcalyst tm , and regn88, we may be unable to supply necessary materials for our clinical trials, which would delay the development of our product candidates. similarly, if we are unable to supply sufficient quantities of our product or develop product formulations suitable for commercial use, we will not be able to successfully commercialize our product candidates. risks related to intellectual property if we cannot protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets or our patents are insufficient to protect our proprietary rights, our business and competitive position will be harmed. our business requires using sensitive and proprietary technology and other information that we protect as trade secrets. we seek to prevent improper disclosure of these trade secrets through confidentiality agreements. if our trade secrets are improperly exposed, either by our own employees or our collaborators, it would help our competitors and adversely affect our business. we will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our rights are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. the patent position of biotechnology companies involves complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, enforceability cannot be predicted with certainty. our patents may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented. patent applications filed outside the united states may be challenged by third parties who file an opposition. such opposition proceedings are increasingly common in the european union and are costly to defend. we have patent applications that are being opposed and it is likely that we will need to defend additional patent applications in the future. our patent rights may not provide us with a proprietary position or competitive advantages against competitors. furthermore, even if the outcome is favorable to us, the enforcement of our intellectual property rights can be extremely expensive and time consuming. we may be restricted in our development and/or commercialization activities by, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed, third party patents or other proprietary rights. our commercial success depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of third parties. other parties may allege that they have blocking patents to our products in clinical development, either because they claim to hold proprietary rights to the composition of a product or the way it is manufactured or used. moreover, other parties may allege that they have blocking patents to antibody products made using our velocimmune technology, either because of the way the antibodies are discovered or produced or because of a proprietary position covering an antibody or the antibody target. we are aware of patents and pending applications owned by genentech that claim certain chimeric vegf receptor compositions. although we do not believe that aflibercept or the vegf trap-eye infringes any valid claim in these patents or patent applications, genentech could initiate a lawsuit for patent infringement and assert that its patents are valid and cover aflibercept or the vegf trap-eye. genentech may be motivated to initiate such a lawsuit at some point in an effort to impair our ability to develop and sell aflibercept or the vegf trap-eye, which 16 represents a potential competitive threat to genentech vegf-binding products and product candidates. an adverse determination by a court in any such potential patent litigation would likely materially harm our business by requiring us to seek a license, which may not be available, or resulting in our inability to manufacture, develop and sell aflibercept or the vegf trap-eye or in a damage award. we are aware of patents and pending applications owned by roche that claim antibodies to the interleukin-6 receptor and methods of treating rheumatoid arthritis with such antibodies. we are developing regn88, an antibody to the interleukin-6 receptor, for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. although we do not believe that regn88 infringes any valid claim in these patents or patent applications, roche could initiate a lawsuit for patent infringement and assert its patents are valid and cover regn88. further, we are aware of a number of other third party patent applications that, if granted, with claims as currently drafted, may cover our current or planned activities. we cannot assure you that our products and/or actions in manufacturing and selling our product candidates will not infringe such patents. in december 2003, we entered into a non-exclusive license agreement with cellectis inc. that granted us certain rights in a family of patents relating to homologous recombination. cellectis now claims that agreements we entered into relating to our velocimmune mice with astrazeneca, astellas, and sanofi-aventis are outside of the scope of our license from cellectis. we disagree with cellectis position and are in discussions with cellectis regarding this matter. if we are not able to resolve this dispute, cellectis may commence a lawsuit against us and our velocimmune licensees alleging infringement of cellectis patents. any patent holders could sue us for damages and seek to prevent us from manufacturing, selling, or developing our drug candidates, and a court may find that we are infringing validly issued patents of third parties. in the event that the manufacture, use, or sale of any of our clinical candidates infringes on the patents or violates other proprietary rights of third parties, we may be prevented from pursuing product development, manufacturing, and commercialization of our drugs and may be required to pay costly damages. such a result may materially harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. legal disputes are likely to be costly and time consuming to defend. we seek to obtain licenses to patents when, in our judgment, such licenses are needed. if any licenses are required, we may not be able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. the failure to obtain any such license could prevent us from developing or commercializing any one or more of our product candidates, which could severely harm our business. regulatory and litigation risks if we do not obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, we will not be able to market or sell them. we cannot sell or market products without regulatory approval. if we do not obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our product candidates, the value of our company and our results of operations will be harmed. in the united states, we must obtain and maintain approval from the united states food and drug administration (fda) for each drug we intend to sell. obtaining fda approval is typically a lengthy and expensive process, and approval is highly uncertain. foreign governments also regulate drugs distributed in their country and approval in any country is likely to be a lengthy and expensive process, and approval is highly uncertain. none of our product candidates has ever received regulatory approval to be marketed and sold in the united states or any other country. we may never receive regulatory approval for any of our product candidates. before approving a new drug or biologic product, the fda requires that the facilities at which the product will be manufactured be in compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cgmp requirements. manufacturing product candidates in compliance with these regulatory requirements is complex, time-consuming, and expensive. to be successful, our products must be manufactured for development, following approval, in commercial quantities, in compliance with regulatory requirements, and at competitive costs. if we or any of our product collaborators or third-party manufacturers, product packagers, or labelers are unable to maintain regulatory compliance, the fda can impose regulatory sanctions, including, among other things, refusal to approve a pending 17 application for a new drug or biologic product, or revocation of a pre-existing approval. as a result, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially harmed. if the testing or use of our products harms people, we could be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims. the testing, manufacturing, marketing, and sale of drugs for use in people expose us to product liability risk. any informed consent or waivers obtained from people who sign up for our clinical trials may not protect us from liability or the cost of litigation. our product liability insurance may not cover all potential liabilities or may not completely cover any liability arising from any such litigation. moreover, we may not have access to liability insurance or be able to maintain our insurance on acceptable terms. our operations may involve hazardous materials and are subject to environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations. we may incur substantial liability arising from our activities involving the use of hazardous materials. as a biopharmaceutical company with significant manufacturing operations, we are subject to extensive environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations, including those governing the use of hazardous materials. our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of chemicals, viruses, radioactive compounds, and other hazardous materials. the cost of compliance with environmental, health, and safety regulations is substantial. if an accident involving these materials or an environmental discharge were to occur, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, or face regulatory actions, which could exceed our resources or insurance coverage. changes in the securities laws and regulations have increased, and are likely to continue to increase, our costs. the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, which became law in july 2002, has required changes in some of our corporate governance, securities disclosure and compliance practices. in response to the requirements of that act, the sec and the nasdaq stock market have promulgated rules and listing standards covering a variety of subjects. compliance with these rules and listing standards has increased our legal costs, and significantly increased our accounting and auditing costs, and we expect these costs to continue. these developments may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain directors and officers liability insurance. likewise, these developments may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly independent directors, or qualified executive officers. in future years, if we are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, the market value of our common stock could be adversely affected. as directed by section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, the sec adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on form 10-k that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. in addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing our financial statements must attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. our independent registered public accounting firm provided us with an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2007, which report is included in this annual report on form 10-k. however, we cannot assure you that management or our independent registered public accounting firm will be able to provide such an unqualified report as of future year-ends. in this event, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the market value of our common stock. in addition, if it is determined that deficiencies in the design or operation of internal controls exist and that they are reasonably likely to adversely affect our ability to record, process, summarize, and report financial information, we would likely incur additional costs to remediate these deficiencies and the costs of such remediation could be material. 18 risks related to our reliance on third parties if our antibody collaboration with sanofi-aventis is terminated, our business operations and our ability to discover, develop, manufacture, and commercialize our pipeline of product candidates in the time expected, or at all, would be materially harmed. we rely heavily on the funding from sanofi-aventis to support our target discovery and antibody research and development programs. sanofi-aventis has committed to pay up to $475.0 million between 2008 and 2012 to fund our efforts to identify and validate drug discovery targets and pre-clinically develop fully human monoclonal antibodies against such targets. in addition, sanofi-aventis funds almost all of the development expenses incurred by both companies in connection with the clinical development of antibodies that sanofi-aventis elects to co-develop with us. we rely on sanofi-aventis to fund these activities. in addition, with respect to those antibodies that sanofi-aventis elects to co-develop with us, such as regn88, we rely on sanofi-aventis to lead much of the clinical development efforts and assist with obtaining regulatory approval, particularly outside the united states. we also rely on sanofi-aventis to lead the commercialization efforts to support all of the antibody products that are co-developed by sanofi-aventis and us. if sanofi-aventis does not elect to co-develop the antibodies that we discover or opts-out of their development, we would be required to fund and oversee on our own the clinical trials, any regulatory responsibilities, and the ensuing commercialization efforts to support our antibody products. sanofi-aventis may terminate the collaboration for our material breach or, in the case of the discovery agreement, if certain minimal criteria for the discovery program are not achieved by december 31, 2010. if sanofi-aventis terminates the antibody collaboration or fails to comply with its payment obligations thereunder, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be materially harmed. we would be required to either expend substantially more resources than we have anticipated to support our research and development efforts, which could require us to seek additional funding that might not be available on favorable terms or at all, or materially cut back on such activities. while we cannot assure you that any of the antibodies from this collaboration will ever be successfully developed and commercialized, if sanofi-aventis does not perform its obligations with respect to antibodies that it elects to co-develop, our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize these antibody product candidates will be significantly adversely affected. if our collaboration with sanofi-aventis for aflibercept (vegf trap) is terminated, or sanofi-aventis materially breaches its obligations thereunder, our business, operations and financial condition, and our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize aflibercept in the time expected, or at all, would be materially harmed. we rely heavily on sanofi-aventis to lead much of the development of aflibercept. sanofi-aventis funds all of the development expenses incurred by both companies in connection with the aflibercept program. if the aflibercept program continues, we will rely on sanofi-aventis to assist with funding the aflibercept program, provide commercial manufacturing capacity, enroll and monitor clinical trials, obtain regulatory approval, particularly outside the united states, and lead the commercialization of aflibercept. while we cannot assure you that aflibercept will ever be successfully developed and commercialized, if sanofi-aventis does not perform its obligations in a timely manner, or at all, our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize aflibercept in cancer indications will be significantly adversely affected. sanofi-aventis has the right to terminate its collaboration agreement with us at any time upon twelve months advance notice. if sanofi-aventis were to terminate its collaboration agreement with us, we would not have the resources or skills to replace those of our partner, which could require us to seek additional funding that might not be available on favorable terms or at all, and could cause significant delays in the development and/or manufacture of aflibercept and result in substantial additional costs to us. we have limited commercial capabilities and would have to develop or outsource these capabilities. termination of the sanofi-aventis collaboration agreement would create substantial new and additional risks to the successful development and commercialization of aflibercept. 19 if our collaboration with bayer healthcare for the vegf trap-eye is terminated, or bayer healthcare materially breaches its obligations thereunder, our business, operations and financial condition, and our ability to develop and commercialize the vegf trap-eye in the time expected, or at all, would be materially harmed. we rely heavily on bayer healthcare to assist with the development of the vegf trap-eye. under our agreement with them, bayer healthcare is required to fund approximately half of the development expenses incurred by both companies in connection with the global vegf trap-eye development program. if the vegf trap-eye program continues, we will rely on bayer healthcare to assist with funding the vegf trap-eye development program, lead the development of the vegf trap-eye outside the united states, obtain regulatory approval outside the united states, and provide all sales, marketing and commercial support for the product outside the united states. in particular, bayer healthcare has responsibility for selling vegf trap-eye outside the united states using its sales force. while we cannot assure you that the vegf trap-eye will ever be successfully developed and commercialized, if bayer healthcare does not perform its obligations in a timely manner, or at all, our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize the vegf trap-eye outside the united states will be significantly adversely affected. bayer healthcare has the right to terminate its collaboration agreement with us at any time upon six or twelve months advance notice, depending on the circumstances giving rise to termination. if bayer healthcare were to terminate its collaboration agreement with us, we would not have the resources or skills to replace those of our partner, which could require us to seek additional finding that might not be available on favorable terms or at all, and could cause significant delays in the development and/or commercialization of the vegf trap-eye outside the united states and result in substantial additional costs to us. we have limited commercial capabilities and would have to develop or outsource these capabilities outside the united states. termination of the bayer healthcare collaboration agreement would create substantial new and additional risks to the successful development and commercialization of the vegf trap-eye. our collaborators and service providers may fail to perform adequately in their efforts to support the development, manufacture, and commercialization of our drug candidates. we depend upon third-party collaborators, including sanofi-aventis, bayer healthcare, and service providers such as clinical research organizations, outside testing laboratories, clinical investigator sites, and third-party manufacturers and product packagers and labelers, to assist us in the manufacture and development of our product candidates. if any of our existing collaborators or service providers breaches or terminates its agreement with us or does not perform its development or manufacturing services under an agreement in a timely manner or at all, we could experience additional costs, delays, and difficulties in the manufacture, development or ultimate commercialization of our product candidates. risks related to the manufacture of our product candidates we have limited manufacturing capacity, which could inhibit our ability to successfully develop or commercialize our drugs. our manufacturing facility is likely to be inadequate to produce sufficient quantities of product for commercial sale. we intend to rely on our corporate collaborators, as well as contract manufacturers, to produce the large quantities of drug material needed for commercialization of our products. we rely entirely on third-party manufacturers for filling and finishing services. we will have to depend on these manufacturers to deliver material on a timely basis and to comply with regulatory requirements. if we are unable to supply sufficient material on acceptable terms, or if we should encounter delays or difficulties in our relationships with our corporate collaborators or contract manufacturers, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially harmed. we must expand our own manufacturing capacity to support the planned growth of our clinical pipeline. moreover, we may expand our manufacturing capacity to support commercial production of active pharmaceutical ingredients, or api, for our product candidates. this will require substantial additional expenditures, and we will need to hire and train significant numbers of employees and managerial personnel to staff our facility. start-up costs can be large and scale-up entails significant risks related to process development and manufacturing yields. we may 20 be unable to develop manufacturing facilities that are sufficient to produce drug material for clinical trials or commercial use. this may delay our clinical development plans and interfere with our efforts to commercialize our products. in addition, we may be unable to secure adequate filling and finishing services to support our products. as a result, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially harmed. we may be unable to obtain key raw materials and supplies for the manufacture of our product candidates. in addition, we may face difficulties in developing or acquiring production technology and managerial personnel to manufacture sufficient quantities of our product candidates at reasonable costs and in compliance with applicable quality assurance and environmental regulations and governmental permitting requirements. if any of our clinical programs are discontinued, we may face costs related to the unused capacity at our manufacturing facilities. we have large-scale manufacturing operations in rensselaer, new york. we use our facilities to produce bulk product for clinical and preclinical candidates for ourselves and our collaborations. if our clinical candidates are discontinued, we will have to absorb one hundred percent of related overhead costs and inefficiencies. certain of our raw materials are single-sourced from third parties; third-party supply failures could adversely affect our ability to supply our products. certain raw materials necessary for manufacturing and formulation of our product candidates are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. we would be unable to obtain these raw materials for an indeterminate period of time if these third-party single-source suppliers were to cease or interrupt production or otherwise fail to supply these materials or products to us for any reason, including due to regulatory requirements or action, due to adverse financial developments at or affecting the supplier, or due to labor shortages or disputes. this, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our ability to manufacture our product candidates for use in clinical trials, which could materially and adversely affect our business and future prospects. also, certain of the raw materials required in the manufacturing and the formulation of our clinical candidates may be derived from biological sources, including mammalian tissues, bovine serum, and human serum albumin. there are certain european regulatory restrictions on using these biological source materials. if we are required to substitute for these sources to comply with european regulatory requirements, our clinical development activities may be delayed or interrupted. risks related to commercialization of products if we are unable to establish sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities, or enter into agreements with third parties to do so, we will be unable to successfully market and sell future products. we have no sales or distribution personnel or capabilities and have only a small staff with commercial capabilities. if we are unable to obtain those capabilities, either by developing our own organizations or entering into agreements with service providers, we will not be able to successfully sell any products that we may obtain regulatory approval for and bring to market in the future. in that event, we will not be able to generate significant revenue, even if our product candidates are approved. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to hire the qualified sales and marketing personnel we need or that we will be able to enter into marketing or distribution agreements with third-party providers on acceptable terms, if at all. under the terms of our collaboration agreement with sanofi-aventis, we currently rely on sanofi-aventis for sales, marketing, and distribution of aflibercept in cancer indications, should it be approved in the future by regulatory authorities for marketing. we will have to rely on a third party or devote significant resources to develop our own sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities for our other product candidates, including the vegf trap-eye in the united states, and we may be unsuccessful in developing our own sales, marketing, and distribution organization. 21 even if our product candidates are approved for marketing, their commercial success is highly uncertain because our competitors have received approval for products with the same mechanism of action, and competitors may get to the marketplace before we do with better or lower cost drugs or the market for our product candidates may be too small to support commercialization or sufficient profitability. there is substantial competition in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries from pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and chemical companies. many of our competitors have substantially greater research, preclinical and clinical product development and manufacturing capabilities, and financial, marketing, and human resources than we do. our smaller competitors may also enhance their competitive position if they acquire or discover patentable inventions, form collaborative arrangements, or merge with large pharmaceutical companies. even if we achieve product commercialization, our competitors have achieved, and may continue to achieve, product commercialization before our products are approved for marketing and sale. genentech has an approved vegf antagonist, avastin (genentech), on the market for treating certain cancers and many different pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are working to develop competing vegf antagonists, including novartis, osi pharmaceuticals, and pfizer. many of these molecules are farther along in development than aflibercept and may offer competitive advantages over our molecule. novartis has an ongoing phase 3 clinical development program evaluating an orally delivered vegf tyrosine kinase inhibitor in different cancer settings. each of pfizer and onyx pharmaceuticals (together with its partner bayer healthcare) has received approval from the fda to market and sell an oral medication that targets tumor cell growth and new vasculature formation that fuels the growth of tumors. the marketing approvals for genentech vegf antagonist, avastin (genentech), and their extensive, ongoing clinical development plan for avastin (genentech) in other cancer indications, make it more difficult for us to enroll patients in clinical trials to support aflibercept and to obtain regulatory approval of aflibercept in these cancer settings. this may delay or impair our ability to successfully develop and commercialize aflibercept. in addition, even if aflibercept is ever approved for sale for the treatment of certain cancers, it will be difficult for our drug to compete against avastin (genentech) and the fda approved kinase inhibitors, because doctors and patients will have significant experience using these medicines. in addition, an oral medication may be considerably less expensive for patients than a biologic medication, providing a competitive advantage to companies that market such products. the market for eye disease products is also very competitive. novartis and genentech are collaborating on the commercialization and further development of a vegf antibody fragment (lucentis ) for the treatment of age-related macular degeneration (wet amd) and other eye indications that was approved by the fda in june 2006. many other companies are working on the development of product candidates for the potential treatment of wet amd that act by blocking vegf, vegf receptors, and through the use of soluble ribonucleic acids (srnas) that modulate gene expression. in addition, ophthalmologists are using off-label a third-party reformatted version of genentech approved vegf antagonist, avastin , with success for the treatment of wet amd. the national eye institute recently has received funding for a phase 3 trial to compare lucentis (genentech) to avastin (genentech) in the treatment of wet amd. the marketing approval of lucentis (genentech) and the potential off-label use of avastin (genentech) make it more difficult for us to enroll patients in our clinical trials and successfully develop the vegf trap-eye. even if the vegf trap-eye is ever approved for sale for the treatment of eye diseases, it may be difficult for our drug to compete against lucentis (genentech), because doctors and patients will have significant experience using this medicine. moreover, the relatively low cost of therapy with avastin (genentech) in patients with wet amd presents a further competitive challenge in this indication. the availability of highly effective fda approved tnf-antagonists such as enbrel (immunex), remicade (centocor), and humira (abbott), and the il-1 receptor antagonist kineret (amgen), and other marketed therapies makes it more difficult to successfully develop and commercialize arcalyst tm . this is one of the reasons we discontinued the development of arcalyst tm in adult rheumatoid arthritis. in addition, even if arcalyst tm is ever approved for sale, it will be difficult for our drug to compete against these fda approved tnf-antagonists in indications where both are useful because doctors and patients will have significant experience using these effective medicines. moreover, in such indications these approved therapeutics may offer competitive advantages over arcalyst tm , such as requiring fewer injections. 22 there are both small molecules and antibodies in development by other companies that are designed to block the synthesis of interleukin-1 or inhibit the signaling of interleukin-1. for example, eli lilly and company, xoma ltd., and novartis are each developing antibodies to interleukin-1 and amgen is developing an antibody to the interleukin-1 receptor. novartis has commenced advanced clinical testing of its il-1 antibody in muckle-wells syndrome, which is part of the group of rare genetic diseases called caps. novartis il-1 antibody and these other drug candidates could offer competitive advantages over arcalyst tm . the successful development of these competing molecules could delay or impair our ability to successfully develop and commercialize arcalyst tm . for example, we may find it difficult to enroll patients in clinical trials for arcalyst tm if the companies developing these competing interleukin-1 inhibitors commence clinical trials in the same indications. we are developing arcalyst tm for the treatment of a group of rare diseases associated with mutations in the nlrp3 gene. these rare genetic disorders affect a small group of people, estimated to be in the hundreds. there may be too few patients with these genetic disorders to profitably commercialize arcalyst tm in this indication. we are developing regn88 for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. the availability of highly effective fda approved tnf-antagonists such as enbrel (immunex), remicade (centocor), and humira (abbott), and other marketed therapies makes it more difficult to successfully develop and commercialize regn88. regn88 is a human monoclonal antibody targeting the interleukin-6 receptor. roche is developing an antibody against the interleukin-6 (il-6) receptor. roche antibody has completed phase 3 clinical trials and is the subject of a filed biologics license application with the fda. roche il-6 receptor antibody, other clinical candidates in development, and drugs now or in the future on the market to treat rheumatoid arthritis could offer competitive advantages over regn88. this could delay or impair our ability to successfully develop and commercialize regn88. the successful commercialization of our product candidates will depend on obtaining coverage and reimbursement for use of these products from third-party payers and these payers may not agree to cover or reimburse for use of our products. our products, if commercialized, may be significantly more expensive than traditional drug treatments. our future revenues and profitability will be adversely affected if united states and foreign governmental, private third-party insurers and payers, and other third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid, do not agree to defray or reimburse the cost of our products to the patients. if these entities refuse to provide coverage and reimbursement with respect to our products or provide an insufficient level of coverage and reimbursement, our products may be too costly for many patients to afford them, and physicians may not prescribe them. many third-party payers cover only selected drugs, making drugs that are not preferred by such payer more expensive for patients, and require prior authorization or failure on another type of treatment before covering a particular drug. payers may especially impose these obstacles to coverage on higher-priced drugs, as our product candidates are likely to be. we are seeking approval to market arcalyst tm for the treatment of a group of rare genetic disorders called caps. there may be too few patients with caps to profitably commercialize arcalyst tm . physicians may not prescribe arcalyst tm and caps patients may not be able to afford arcalyst tm if third party payers do not agree to reimburse the cost of arcalyst tm therapy and this would adversely affect our ability to commercialize arcalyst tm profitably. in addition to potential restrictions on coverage, the amount of reimbursement for our products may also reduce our profitability. in the united states, there have been, and we expect will continue to be, actions and proposals to control and reduce healthcare costs. government and other third-party payers are challenging the prices charged for healthcare products and increasingly limiting, and attempting to limit, both coverage and level of reimbursement for prescription drugs. since our products, including arcalyst tm , will likely be too expensive for most patients to afford without health insurance coverage, if our products are unable to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement by third-party payers our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates may be adversely impacted. any limitation on the use of our products or any decrease in the price of our products will have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve profitability. 23 in certain foreign countries, pricing, coverage and level of reimbursement of prescription drugs are subject to governmental control, and we may be unable to negotiate coverage, pricing, and reimbursement on terms that are favorable to us. in some foreign countries, the proposed pricing for a drug must be approved before it may be lawfully marketed. the requirements governing drug pricing vary widely from country to country. for example, the european union provides options for its member states to restrict the range of medicinal products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices of medicinal products for human use. a member state may approve a specific price for the medicinal product or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the medicinal product on the market. our results of operations may suffer if we are unable to market our products in foreign countries or if coverage and reimbursement for our products in foreign countries is limited. risk related to employees we are dependent on our key personnel and if we cannot recruit and retain leaders in our research, development, manufacturing, and commercial organizations, our business will be harmed. we are highly dependent on certain of our executive officers. if we are not able to retain any of these persons or our chairman, our business may suffer. in particular, we depend on the services of p. roy vagelos, m.d., the chairman of our board of directors, leonard schleifer, m.d., ph.d., our president and chief executive officer, george d. yancopoulos, m.d., ph.d., our executive vice president, chief scientific officer and president, regeneron research laboratories, and neil stahl, ph.d., our senior vice president, research and development sciences. there is intense competition in the biotechnology industry for qualified scientists and managerial personnel in the development, manufacture, and commercialization of drugs. we may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for developing our business. risks related to our common stock our stock price is extremely volatile. there has been significant volatility in our stock price and generally in the market prices of biotechnology companies securities. various factors and events may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. these factors include, by way of example: progress, delays, or adverse results in clinical trials; announcement of technological innovations or product candidates by us or competitors; fluctuations in our operating results; public concern as to the safety or effectiveness of our product candidates; developments in our relationship with collaborative partners; developments in the biotechnology industry or in government regulation of healthcare; large sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors, or significant shareholders; arrivals and departures of key personnel; and general market conditions. the trading price of our common stock has been, and could continue to be, subject to wide fluctuations in response to these and other factors, including the sale or attempted sale of a large amount of our common stock in the market. broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the market price of our common stock. future sales of our common stock by our significant shareholders or us may depress our stock price and impair our ability to raise funds in new share offerings. a small number of our shareholders beneficially own a substantial amount of our common stock. as of december 31, 2007, our seven largest shareholders beneficially owned 54.0% of our outstanding shares of common 24 stock, assuming, in the case of leonard s. schleifer, m.d. ph.d., our chief executive officer, and p. roy vagelos, m.d., our chairman, the conversion of their class a stock into common stock and the exercise of all options held by them which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2007. as of december 31, 2007, sanofi-aventis beneficially owned 14,799,552 shares of common stock, representing approximately 19.3% of the shares of common stock then outstanding. under our investor agreement with sanofi-aventis, sanofi-aventis may not sell these shares until december 20, 2012 except under limited circumstances and subject to earlier termination rights of these restrictions upon the occurrence of certain events. notwithstanding these restrictions, if sanofi-aventis, or our other significant shareholders or we, sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur exists, the market price of our common stock could fall. sales of common stock by our significant shareholders, including sanofi-aventis, also might make it more difficult for us to raise funds by selling equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. our existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval. holders of class a stock, who are generally the shareholders who purchased their stock from us before our initial public offering, are entitled to ten votes per share, while holders of common stock are entitled to one vote per share. as of december 31, 2007, holders of class a stock held 22.8% of the combined voting power of all of common stock and class a stock then outstanding. these shareholders, if acting together, would be in a position to significantly influence the election of our directors and to effect or prevent certain corporate transactions that require majority or supermajority approval of the combined classes, including mergers and other business combinations. this may result in our company taking corporate actions that you may not consider to be in your best interest and may affect the price of our common stock. as of december 31, 2007: our current executive officers and directors beneficially owned 12.6% of our outstanding shares of common stock, assuming conversion of their class a stock into common stock and the exercise of all options held by such persons which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2007, and 27.7% of the combined voting power of our outstanding shares of common stock and class a stock, assuming the exercise of all options held by such persons which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2007; and our seven largest shareholders beneficially owned 54.0% of our outstanding shares of common stock, assuming, in the case of leonard s. schleifer, m.d., ph.d., our chief executive officer, and p. roy vagelos, m.d., our chairman, the conversion of their class a stock into common stock and the exercise of all options held by them which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2007. in addition, these seven shareholders held 58.0% of the combined voting power of our outstanding shares of common stock and class a stock, assuming the exercise of all options held by our chief executive officer and our chairman which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2007. pursuant to an investor agreement, sanofi-aventis has agreed to vote its shares, at sanofi-aventis election, either as recommended by our board of directors or proportionally with the votes cast by our other shareholders, except with respect to certain change of control transactions, liquidation or dissolution, stock issuances equal to or exceeding 10% of the then outstanding shares or voting rights of common stock and class a stock, and new equity compensation plans or amendments if not materially consistent with our historical equity compensation practices. the anti-takeover effects of provisions of our charter, by-laws, and of new york corporate law and the contractual standstill provisions in our investor agreement with sanofi-aventis, could deter, delay, or prevent an acquisition or other change in control of us and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our by-laws and the new york business corporation law contain various provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company or our management that shareholders may consider favorable or beneficial. some of these provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other shareholders to elect directors and take 25 other corporate actions. these provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. these provisions include: authorization to issue blank check preferred stock, which is preferred stock that can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior shareholder approval, with rights senior to those of our common shareholders; a staggered board of directors, so that it would take three successive annual meetings to replace all of our directors; a requirement that removal of directors may only be effected for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of at least eighty percent (80%) of the outstanding shares entitled to vote for directors, as well as a requirement that any vacancy on the board of directors may be filled only by the remaining directors; any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of shareholders may be taken without a meeting, only if, prior to such action, all of our shareholders consent, the effect of which is to require that shareholder action may only be taken at a duly convened meeting; any shareholder seeking to bring business before an annual meeting of shareholders must provide timely notice of this intention in writing and meet various other requirements; and under the new york business corporation law, in addition to certain restrictions which may apply to business combinations involving the company and an interested shareholder , a plan of merger or consolidation of the company must be approved by two-thirds of the votes of all outstanding shares entitled to vote thereon. see the risk factor immediately above captioned our existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval. until the later of the fifth anniversaries of the expiration or earlier termination of our antibody collaboration agreements with sanofi-aventis or our aflibercept collaboration with sanofi-aventis, sanofi-aventis will be bound by certain standstill provisions, which contractually prohibit sanofi-aventis from acquiring more than certain specified percentages of the company class a stock and common stock (taken together) or otherwise seeking to obtain control of the company. in addition, we have a change in control severance plan and our chief executive officer has an employment agreement that provides severance benefits in the event our officers are terminated as a result of a change in control of the company. many of our stock options issued under our 2000 long-term incentive plan may become fully vested in connection with a change in control of our company, as defined in the plan. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk interest rate risk: our earnings and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to changes in interest rates primarily from our investment of available cash balances in investment grade corporate, asset-backed, and u.s. government securities. 56 we do not believe we are materially exposed to changes in interest rates. under our current policies we do not use interest rate derivative instruments to manage exposure to interest rate changes. we estimated that a one percent change in interest rates would result in approximately a $1.9 million and $1.7 million decrease in the fair value of our investment portfolio at december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. the increase in the potential impact of an interest rate change at december 31, 2007, compared to december 31, 2006, is due primarily to slight increases in our investment portfolio duration to maturity at the end of 2007 versus the end of 2006. credit quality risk: we have an investment policy that includes guidelines on acceptable investment securities, minimum credit quality, maturity parameters, and concentration and diversification. nonetheless, deterioration of the credit quality of an investment security subsequent to purchase may subject us to the risk of not being able to recover the full principal value of the security. in 2007, we recognized a $5.9 million charge related to marketable securities which we considered to be other than temporarily impaired in value.risk factors we operate in an environment that involves a number of significant risks and uncertainties. we caution you to read the following risk factors, which have affected, and/or in the future could affect, our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. the risks described below include forward-looking statements, and actual events and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. furthermore, additional risks and uncertainties are described under other captions in this report and should be considered by our investors. risks related to our financial results and need for additional financing we have had a history of operating losses and we may never achieve profitability. if we continue to incur operating losses, we may be unable to continue our operations. from inception on january 8, 1988 through december 31, 2008, we had a cumulative loss of $875.9 million. if we continue to incur operating losses and fail to become a profitable company, we may be unable to continue our operations. in the absence of substantial revenue from the sale of products or other sources, the amount, timing, nature or source of which cannot be predicted, our losses will continue as we conduct our research and development activities. we may need additional funding in the future, which may not be available to us, and which may force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts. we will need to expend substantial resources for research and development, including costs associated with clinical testing of our product candidates. we believe our existing capital resources, including funding we are entitled to receive under our collaboration agreements, will enable us to meet operating needs through at least 2012; however, one or more of our collaboration agreements may terminate, our projected revenue may decrease, or our expenses may increase and that would lead to our capital being consumed significantly before such time. we may require additional financing in the future and we may not be able to raise such additional funds. if we are able to obtain additional financing through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, such sales may be dilutive to our shareholders. debt financing arrangements may require us to pledge certain assets or enter into covenants that would restrict our business activities or our ability to incur further indebtedness and may contain other terms that are not favorable to our shareholders. if we are unable to raise sufficient funds to complete the development of our product candidates, we may face delay, reduction or elimination of our research and development programs or preclinical or clinical trials, in which case our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially harmed. the value of our investment portfolio, which includes cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, is influenced by varying economic and market conditions. a decrease in the value of an asset in our investment portfolio or a default by the issuer may result in our inability to recover the principal we invested and/or a recognition of a loss charged against income. as of december 31, 2008, cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and marketable securities totaled $527.5 million and represented 79% of our total assets. we have invested available cash balances primarily in money market funds and u.s. treasury, u.s. government agency, corporate, and asset-backed securities. we consider assets classified as marketable securities to be available-for-sale, as defined by statement of financial accounting standards no. (sfas) 115, accounting for certain investments in debt and equity securities . marketable securities totaled $278.0 million at december 31, 2008, are carried at fair value, and the unrealized gains and losses are included in other accumulated comprehensive income (loss) as a separate component of stockholders equity. if the decline in the value of a security in our investment portfolio is deemed to be other-than-temporary, we write down the security to its current fair value and recognize a loss that is charged against income. for example, during the year ended december 31, 2008, we recorded charges for other-than-temporary impairments totaling $2.5 million related to two marketable securities in our investment portfolio. the current economic environment, the deterioration in the credit quality of some of the issuers of securities that we hold, and the recent volatility of securities markets increase the risk that we may not recover the principal we invested and/or there may be further declines in the market value of securities in our investment portfolio. as a result, we may incur additional charges against income in future periods for other-than-temporary impairments or realized losses upon a security sale or maturity, and such amounts may be material. 13 risks related to arcalyst (rilonacept) and the development of our product candidates successful development of any of our product candidates is highly uncertain. only a small minority of all research and development programs ultimately result in commercially successful drugs. even if clinical trials demonstrate safety and effectiveness of any of our product candidates for a specific disease and the necessary regulatory approvals are obtained, the commercial success of any of our product candidates will depend upon their acceptance by patients, the medical community, and third-party payers and on our partners ability to successfully manufacture and commercialize our product candidates. our product candidates are delivered either by intravenous infusion or by intravitreal or subcutaneous injections, which are generally less well received by patients than tablet or capsule delivery. if our products are not successfully commercialized, we will not be able to recover the significant investment we have made in developing such products and our business would be severely harmed. we are studying aflibercept, vegf trap-eye, arcalyst, and our antibody candidates in a wide variety of indications. many of these current trials are exploratory studies designed to identify what diseases and uses, if any, are best suited for our product candidates. it is likely that our product candidates will not demonstrate the requisite efficacy and/or safety profile to support continued development for most of the indications that are being, or are planned to be, studied. in fact, our product candidates may not demonstrate the requisite efficacy and safety profile to support the continued development for any of the indications or uses. clinical trials required for our product candidates are expensive and time-consuming, and their outcome is highly uncertain. if any of our drug trials are delayed or yield unfavorable results, we will have to delay or may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates. we must conduct extensive testing of our product candidates before we can obtain regulatory approval to market and sell them. we need to conduct both preclinical animal testing and human clinical trials. conducting these trials is a lengthy, time-consuming, and expensive process. these tests and trials may not achieve favorable results for many reasons, including, among others, failure of the product candidate to demonstrate safety or efficacy, the development of serious or life-threatening adverse events (or side effects) caused by or connected with exposure to the product candidate, difficulty in enrolling and maintaining subjects in the clinical trial, lack of sufficient supplies of the product candidate or comparator drug, and the failure of clinical investigators, trial monitors and other consultants, or trial subjects to comply with the trial plan or protocol. a clinical trial may fail because it did not include a sufficient number of patients to detect the endpoint being measured or reach statistical significance. a clinical trial may also fail because the dose(s) of the investigational drug included in the trial were either too low or too high to determine the optimal effect of the investigational drug in the disease setting. we will need to reevaluate any drug candidate that does not test favorably and either conduct new trials, which are expensive and time consuming, or abandon the drug development program. even if we obtain positive results from preclinical or clinical trials, we may not achieve the same success in future trials. many companies in the biopharmaceutical industry, including us, have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, even after promising results have been obtained in earlier trials. the failure of clinical trials to demonstrate safety and effectiveness for the desired indication(s) could harm the development of our product candidate(s), and our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially harmed. serious complications or side effects have occurred, and may continue to occur, in connection with the use of our approved product and in clinical trials of some of our product candidates which could cause our regulatory approval to be revoked or otherwise negatively affected or lead to delay or discontinuation of development of our product candidates which could severely harm our business. during the conduct of clinical trials, patients report changes in their health, including illnesses, injuries, and discomforts, to their study doctor. often, it is not possible to determine whether or not the drug candidate being studied caused these conditions. various illnesses, injuries, and discomforts have been reported from time-to-time during clinical trials of our product candidates. it is possible as we test our drug candidates in larger, longer, and more extensive clinical programs, illnesses, injuries, and discomforts that were observed in earlier trials, as well as conditions that did not occur or went undetected in smaller previous trials, will be reported by patients. many times, side effects are only detectable after investigational drugs are tested in large scale, phase 3 clinical trials or, in some 14 cases, after they are made available to patients after approval. if additional clinical experience indicates that any of our product candidates has many side effects or causes serious or life-threatening side effects, the development of the product candidate may fail or be delayed, which would severely harm our business. our aflibercept (vegf trap) is being studied for the potential treatment of certain types of cancer and our vegf trap-eye candidate is being studied in diseases of the eye. there are many potential safety concerns associated with significant blockade of vascular endothelial growth factor, or vegf, that may limit our ability to successfully develop aflibercept and vegf trap-eye. these serious and potentially life-threatening risks, based on clinical and preclinical experience of vegf inhibitors, include bleeding, intestinal perforation, hypertension, proteinuria, heart attack, and stroke. in addition, patients given infusions of any protein, including vegf trap delivered through intravenous administration, may develop severe hypersensitivity reactions or infusion reactions. other vegf blockers have reported side effects that became evident only after large scale trials or after marketing approval and large number of patients were treated. these and other complications or side effects could harm the development of aflibercept for the treatment of cancer or vegf trap-eye for the treatment of diseases of the eye. we have tested arcalyst in only a small number of patients with caps. as more patients begin to use our product and as we test it in new disease settings, new risks and side effects associated with arcalyst may be discovered, and risks previously viewed as inconsequential could be determined to be significant. like cytokine antagonists such as kineret (amgen, inc.), enbrel (immunex corporation), and remicade (centocor, inc.), arcalyst affects the immune defense system of the body by blocking some of its functions. therefore, arcalyst may interfere with the body ability to fight infections. treatment with kineret (amgen), a medication that works through the inhibition of il-1, has been associated with an increased risk of serious infections, and serious, life threatening infections have been reported in patients taking arcalyst. these or other complications or side effects could cause regulatory authorities to revoke approvals of arcalyst. alternatively, we may be required to conduct additional clinical trials, make changes in the labeling of our product, or limit or abandon our efforts to develop arcalyst in new disease settings. these side effects may also result in a reduction, or even the elimination, of sales of arcalyst in approved indications. arcalyst (rilonacept) and our product candidates in development are recombinant proteins that could cause an immune response, resulting in the creation of harmful or neutralizing antibodies against the therapeutic protein. in addition to the safety, efficacy, manufacturing, and regulatory hurdles faced by our product candidates, the administration of recombinant proteins frequently causes an immune response, resulting in the creation of antibodies against the therapeutic protein. the antibodies can have no effect or can totally neutralize the effectiveness of the protein, or require that higher doses be used to obtain a therapeutic effect. in some cases, the antibody can cross react with the patient own proteins, resulting in an auto-immune type disease. whether antibodies will be created can often not be predicted from preclinical or clinical experiments, and their detection or appearance is often delayed, so that there can be no assurance that neutralizing antibodies will not be detected at a later date, in some cases even after pivotal clinical trials have been completed. antibodies directed against the receptor domains of rilonacept were detected in patients with caps after treatment with arcalyst. nineteen of 55 subjects (35%) who received arcalyst for at least 6 weeks tested positive for treatment-emerging binding antibodies on at least one occasion. to date, no side effects related to antibodies were observed in these subjects and there were no observed effects on drug efficacy or drug levels. it is possible that as we continue to test aflibercept and vegf trap-eye with more sensitive assays in different patient populations and larger clinical trials, we will find that subjects given aflibercept and vegf trap-eye develop antibodies to these product candidates, and may also experience side effects related to the antibodies, which could adversely impact the development of such candidates. we may be unable to formulate or manufacture our product candidates in a way that is suitable for clinical or commercial use. changes in product formulations and manufacturing processes may be required as product candidates progress in clinical development and are ultimately commercialized. if we are unable to develop suitable product formulations or manufacturing processes to support large scale clinical testing of our product candidates, including aflibercept, vegf trap-eye, and our antibody candidates, we may be unable to supply necessary materials for our clinical trials, which would delay the development of our product candidates. similarly, if we are unable to supply sufficient quantities of our product or develop product formulations suitable for commercial use, we will not be able to successfully commercialize our product candidates. 15 risks related to intellectual property if we cannot protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets or our patents are insufficient to protect our proprietary rights, our business and competitive position will be harmed. our business requires using sensitive and proprietary technology and other information that we protect as trade secrets. we seek to prevent improper disclosure of these trade secrets through confidentiality agreements. if our trade secrets are improperly exposed, either by our own employees or our collaborators, it would help our competitors and adversely affect our business. we will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our rights are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. the patent position of biotechnology companies involves complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, enforceability cannot be predicted with certainty. our patents may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented. patent applications filed outside the united states may be challenged by third parties who file an opposition. such opposition proceedings are increasingly common in the european union and are costly to defend. we have patent applications that are being opposed and it is likely that we will need to defend additional patent applications in the future. our patent rights may not provide us with a proprietary position or competitive advantages against competitors. furthermore, even if the outcome is favorable to us, the enforcement of our intellectual property rights can be extremely expensive and time consuming. we may be restricted in our development and/or commercialization activities by, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed, third party patents or other proprietary rights. our commercial success depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of third parties. other parties may allege that they have blocking patents to our products in clinical development, either because they claim to hold proprietary rights to the composition of a product or the way it is manufactured or used. moreover, other parties may allege that they have blocking patents to antibody products made using our velocimmune technology, either because of the way the antibodies are discovered or produced or because of a proprietary position covering an antibody or the antibody target. we are aware of patents and pending applications owned by genentech that claim certain chimeric vegf receptor compositions. although we do not believe that aflibercept or vegf trap-eye infringes any valid claim in these patents or patent applications, genentech could initiate a lawsuit for patent infringement and assert that its patents are valid and cover aflibercept or vegf trap-eye. genentech may be motivated to initiate such a lawsuit at some point in an effort to impair our ability to develop and sell aflibercept or vegf trap-eye, which represent potential competitive threats to genentech vegf-binding products and product candidates. an adverse determination by a court in any such potential patent litigation would likely materially harm our business by requiring us to seek a license, which may not be available, or resulting in our inability to manufacture, develop and sell aflibercept or vegf trap-eye or in a damage award. we are aware of patents and pending applications owned by roche that claim antibodies to the interleukin-6 receptor and methods of treating rheumatoid arthritis with such antibodies. we are developing regn88, an antibody to the interleukin-6 receptor, for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. although we do not believe that regn88 infringes any valid claim in these patents or patent applications, roche could initiate a lawsuit for patent infringement and assert its patents are valid and cover regn88. we are aware of a u.s. patent jointly owned by genentech and city of hope relating to the production of recombinant antibodies in host cells. we currently produce our antibody product candidates using recombinant antibodies from host cells and may choose to produce additional antibody product candidates in this manner. neither arcalyst (rilonacept), aflibercept, nor vegf trap-eye are recombinant antibodies. if any of our antibody product candidates are produced in a manner subject to valid claims in the genentech patent, then we may need to obtain a license from genentech, should one be available. genentech has licensed this patent to several different companies under confidential license agreements. if we desire a license for any of our antibody product candidates and are unable to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms or at all, we may be restricted in our ability to use genentech techniques to make recombinant antibodies in or to import them into the united states. further, we are aware of a number of other third party patent applications that, if granted, with claims as currently drafted, may cover our current or planned activities. we cannot assure you that our products and/or actions in manufacturing and selling our product candidates will not infringe such patents. any patent holders could sue us for damages and seek to prevent us from manufacturing, selling, or developing our drug candidates, and a court may find that we are infringing validly issued patents of third parties. in the event that the manufacture, use, or sale of any of our clinical candidates infringes on the patents or violates other proprietary rights of third parties, we may be prevented from pursuing product development, manufacturing, and commercialization of our drugs and may be required to pay costly damages. such a result may materially harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. legal disputes are likely to be costly and time consuming to defend. 16 we seek to obtain licenses to patents when, in our judgment, such licenses are needed. if any licenses are required, we may not be able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. the failure to obtain any such license could prevent us from developing or commercializing any one or more of our product candidates, which could severely harm our business. regulatory and litigation risks if we do not obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, we will not be able to market or sell them. we cannot sell or market products without regulatory approval. although we obtained regulatory approval for arcalyst for the treatment of caps in the united states, we may be unable to obtain regulatory approval of arcalyst in any other country or in any other indication. regulatory agencies outside the united states may require additional information or data with respect to any future submission for arcalyst for the treatment of caps. if we do not obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our product candidates, including arcalyst for the treatment of diseases other than caps, the value of our company and our results of operations will be harmed. in the united states, we must obtain and maintain approval from the united states food and drug administration (fda) for each drug we intend to sell. obtaining fda approval is typically a lengthy and expensive process, and approval is highly uncertain. foreign governments also regulate drugs distributed in their country and approval in any country is likely to be a lengthy and expensive process, and approval is highly uncertain. except for the fda approval of arcalyst for the treatment of caps, none of our product candidates has ever received regulatory approval to be marketed and sold in the united states or any other country. we may never receive regulatory approval for any of our product candidates. before approving a new drug or biologic product, the fda requires that the facilities at which the product will be manufactured be in compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cgmp requirements. manufacturing product candidates in compliance with these regulatory requirements is complex, time-consuming, and expensive. to be successful, our products must be manufactured for development, following approval, in commercial quantities, in compliance with regulatory requirements, and at competitive costs. if we or any of our product collaborators or third-party manufacturers, product packagers, or labelers are unable to maintain regulatory compliance, the fda can impose regulatory sanctions, including, among other things, refusal to approve a pending application for a new drug or biologic product, or revocation of a pre-existing approval. as a result, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially harmed. in addition to the fda and other regulatory agency regulations in the united states, we are subject to a variety of foreign regulatory requirements governing human clinical trials, manufacturing, marketing and approval of drugs, and commercial sale and distribution of drugs in foreign countries. the foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with fda approval as well as country specific regulations. whether or not we obtain fda approval for a product in the united states, we must obtain approval by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries before we can commence clinical trials or marketing of arcalyst for the treatment of caps or any of our product candidates in those countries. if the testing or use of our products harms people, we could be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims. the testing, manufacturing, marketing, and sale of drugs for use in people expose us to product liability risk. any informed consent or waivers obtained from people who sign up for our clinical trials may not protect us from liability or the cost of litigation. we may be subject to claims by caps patients who use arcalyst that they have been injured by a side effect associated with the drug. our product liability insurance may not cover all potential liabilities or may not completely cover any liability arising from any such litigation. moreover, we may not have access to liability insurance or be able to maintain our insurance on acceptable terms. if we market and sell arcalyst (rilonacept) in a way that violates federal or state fraud and abuse laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. in addition to fda and related regulatory requirements, we are subject to health care fraud and abuse laws, such as the federal false claims act, the anti-kickback provisions of the federal social security act, and other state and federal laws and regulations. federal and state anti-kickback laws prohibit, among other things, knowingly 17 and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce, or in return for, purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any health care item or service reimbursable under medicare, medicaid, or other federally or state financed health care programs. federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, such as allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; reporting to pricing services inflated average wholesale prices that were then used by federal programs to set reimbursement rates; engaging in promotion for uses that the fda has not approved, or off-label uses, that caused claims to be submitted to medicaid for non-covered off-label uses; and submitting inflated best price information to the medicaid rebate program. the majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payer. sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines, and imprisonment. even if we are not determined to have violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which would also harm our financial condition. because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the safe harbors, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. in recent years, several states and localities, including california, the district of columbia, massachusetts, maine, minnesota, nevada, new mexico, vermont, and west virginia, have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, and file periodic reports with the state or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, and other activities. similar legislation is being considered in other states. many of these requirements are new and uncertain, and the penalties for failure to comply with these requirements are unclear. nonetheless, if we are found not to be in full compliance with these laws, we could face enforcement action and fines and other penalties, and could receive adverse publicity. our operations may involve hazardous materials and are subject to environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations. we may incur substantial liability arising from our activities involving the use of hazardous materials. as a biopharmaceutical company with significant manufacturing operations, we are subject to extensive environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations, including those governing the use of hazardous materials. our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of chemicals, viruses, radioactive compounds, and other hazardous materials. the cost of compliance with environmental, health, and safety regulations is substantial. if an accident involving these materials or an environmental discharge were to occur, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, or face regulatory actions, which could exceed our resources or insurance coverage. changes in the securities laws and regulations have increased, and are likely to continue to increase, our costs. the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, which became law in july 2002, has required changes in some of our corporate governance, securities disclosure and compliance practices. in response to the requirements of that act, the sec and the nasdaq stock market have promulgated rules and listing standards covering a variety of subjects. compliance with these rules and listing standards has increased our legal costs, and significantly increased our accounting and auditing costs, and we expect these costs to continue. these developments may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain directors and officers liability insurance. likewise, these developments may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly independent directors, or qualified executive officers. in future years, if we are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, the market value of our common stock could be adversely affected. as directed by section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, the sec adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on form 10-k that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial 18 reporting. in addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing our financial statements must attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. our independent registered public accounting firm provided us with an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2008, which report is included in this annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2008. however, we cannot assure you that management or our independent registered public accounting firm will be able to provide such an unqualified report as of future year-ends. in this event, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the market value of our common stock. in addition, if it is determined that deficiencies in the design or operation of internal controls exist and that they are reasonably likely to adversely affect our ability to record, process, summarize, and report financial information, we would likely incur additional costs to remediate these deficiencies and the costs of such remediation could be material. changes in laws and regulations affecting the healthcare industry could adversely affect our business. all aspects of our business, including research and development, manufacturing, marketing, pricing, sales, litigation, and intellectual property rights, are subject to extensive legislation and regulation. changes in applicable federal and state laws and agency regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. these include: changes in the fda and foreign regulatory processes for new therapeutics that may delay or prevent the approval of any of our current or future product candidates; new laws, regulations, or judicial decisions related to healthcare availability or the payment for healthcare products and services, including prescription drugs, that would make it more difficult for us to market and sell products once they are approved by the fda or foreign regulatory agencies; and changes in fda and foreign regulations that may require additional safety monitoring prior to or after the introduction of new products to market, which could materially increase our costs of doing business. the enactment in the united states of the medicare prescription drug improvement and modernization act of 2003 and possible legislation which could ease the entry of competing follow-on biologics into the marketplace are examples of changes and possible changes in laws that could adversely affect our business. risks related to our reliance on third parties if our antibody collaboration with sanofi-aventis is terminated, our business operations and our ability to discover, develop, manufacture, and commercialize our pipeline of product candidates in the time expected, or at all, would be materially harmed. we rely heavily on the funding from sanofi-aventis to support our target discovery and antibody research and development programs. sanofi-aventis has committed to pay up to $400 million between 2009 and 2012 to fund our efforts to identify and validate drug discovery targets and pre-clinically develop fully human monoclonal antibodies against such targets. in addition, sanofi-aventis funds almost all of the development expenses incurred by both companies in connection with the clinical development of antibodies that sanofi-aventis elects to co-develop with us. we rely on sanofi-aventis to fund these activities. in addition, with respect to those antibodies that sanofi-aventis elects to co-develop with us, such as regn88, regn421, and regn475, we rely on sanofi-aventis to lead much of the clinical development efforts and assist with obtaining regulatory approval, particularly outside the united states. we also rely on sanofi-aventis to lead the commercialization efforts to support all of the antibody products that are co-developed by sanofi-aventis and us. if sanofi-aventis does not elect to co-develop the antibodies that we discover or opts-out of their development, we would be required to fund and oversee on our own the clinical trials, any regulatory responsibilities, and the ensuing commercialization efforts to support our antibody products. if sanofi-aventis terminates the antibody collaboration or fails to comply with its payment obligations thereunder, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be materially harmed. we would be required to either expend substantially more resources than we have anticipated to support our research and development efforts, which could require us to seek additional funding that might not be available on favorable terms or at all, or materially cut back on such activities. while we cannot assure you that any of the antibodies from this collaboration will ever be successfully developed and commercialized, if sanofi-aventis does not perform its obligations with respect to antibodies that it elects to co-develop, our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize these antibody product candidates will be significantly adversely affected. 19 if our collaboration with sanofi-aventis for aflibercept (vegf trap) is terminated, or sanofi-aventis materially breaches its obligations thereunder, our business operations and financial condition, and our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize aflibercept in the time expected, or at all, would be materially harmed. we rely heavily on sanofi-aventis to lead much of the development of aflibercept. sanofi-aventis funds all of the development expenses incurred by both companies in connection with the aflibercept program. if the aflibercept program continues, we will rely on sanofi-aventis to assist with funding the aflibercept program, provide commercial manufacturing capacity, enroll and monitor clinical trials, obtain regulatory approval, particularly outside the united states, and lead the commercialization of aflibercept. while we cannot assure you that aflibercept will ever be successfully developed and commercialized, if sanofi-aventis does not perform its obligations in a timely manner, or at all, our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize aflibercept in cancer indications will be significantly adversely affected. sanofi-aventis has the right to terminate its collaboration agreement with us at any time upon twelve months advance notice. if sanofi-aventis were to terminate its collaboration agreement with us, we would not have the resources or skills to replace those of our partner, which could require us to seek additional funding that might not be available on favorable terms or at all, and could cause significant delays in the development and/or manufacture of aflibercept and result in substantial additional costs to us. we have limited commercial capabilities and would have to develop or outsource these capabilities. termination of the sanofi-aventis collaboration agreement for aflibercept would create substantial new and additional risks to the successful development and commercialization of aflibercept. if our collaboration with bayer healthcare for vegf trap-eye is terminated, or bayer healthcare materially breaches its obligations thereunder, our business operations and financial condition, and our ability to develop and commercialize vegf trap-eye in the time expected, or at all, would be materially harmed. we rely heavily on bayer healthcare to assist with the development of vegf trap-eye. under our agreement with them, bayer healthcare is required to fund approximately half of the development expenses incurred by both companies in connection with the global vegf trap-eye development program. if the vegf trap-eye program continues, we will rely on bayer healthcare to assist with funding the vegf trap-eye development program, lead the development of vegf trap-eye outside the united states, obtain regulatory approval outside the united states, and provide all sales, marketing and commercial support for the product outside the united states. in particular, bayer healthcare has responsibility for selling vegf trap-eye outside the united states using its sales force. while we cannot assure you that vegf trap-eye will ever be successfully developed and commercialized, if bayer healthcare does not perform its obligations in a timely manner, or at all, our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize vegf trap-eye outside the united states will be significantly adversely affected. bayer healthcare has the right to terminate its collaboration agreement with us at any time upon six or twelve months advance notice, depending on the circumstances giving rise to termination. if bayer healthcare were to terminate its collaboration agreement with us, we would not have the resources or skills to replace those of our partner, which could require us to seek additional funding that might not be available on favorable terms or at all, and could cause significant delays in the development and/or commercialization of vegf trap-eye outside the united states and result in substantial additional costs to us. we have limited commercial capabilities and would have to develop or outsource these capabilities outside the united states. termination of the bayer healthcare collaboration agreement would create substantial new and additional risks to the successful development and commercialization of vegf trap-eye. our collaborators and service providers may fail to perform adequately in their efforts to support the development, manufacture, and commercialization of arcalyst (rilonacept) and our drug candidates. we depend upon third-party collaborators, including sanofi-aventis, bayer healthcare, and service providers such as clinical research organizations, outside testing laboratories, clinical investigator sites, and third-party manufacturers and product packagers and labelers, to assist us in the manufacture and development of our product candidates. if any of our existing collaborators or service providers breaches or terminates its agreement with us or does not perform its development or manufacturing services under an agreement in a timely manner or at all, we could experience additional costs, delays, and difficulties in the manufacture, development, or ultimate commercialization of our product candidates. we rely on third party service providers to support the distribution of arcalyst and many other related activities in connection with the commercialization of arcalyst for the treatment of caps. we cannot be certain that these third parties will perform adequately. if these service providers do not perform their services adequately, our efforts to market and sell arcalyst for the treatment of caps will not be successful. 20 risks related to the manufacture of our product candidates we have limited manufacturing capacity, which could inhibit our ability to successfully develop or commercialize our drugs. our manufacturing facility is likely to be inadequate to produce sufficient quantities of product for commercial sale. we intend to rely on our corporate collaborators, as well as contract manufacturers, to produce the large quantities of drug material needed for commercialization of our products. we rely entirely on third-party manufacturers for filling and finishing services. we will have to depend on these manufacturers to deliver material on a timely basis and to comply with regulatory requirements. if we are unable to supply sufficient material on acceptable terms, or if we should encounter delays or difficulties in our relationships with our corporate collaborators or contract manufacturers, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially harmed. we must expand our own manufacturing capacity to support the planned growth of our clinical pipeline. moreover, we may expand our manufacturing capacity to support commercial production of active pharmaceutical ingredients, or api, for our product candidates. this will require substantial additional expenditures, and we will need to hire and train significant numbers of employees and managerial personnel to staff our facility. start-up costs can be large and scale-up entails significant risks related to process development and manufacturing yields. we may be unable to develop manufacturing facilities that are sufficient to produce drug material for clinical trials or commercial use. this may delay our clinical development plans and interfere with our efforts to commercialize our products. in addition, we may be unable to secure adequate filling and finishing services to support our products. as a result, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially harmed. we may be unable to obtain key raw materials and supplies for the manufacture of arcalyst (rilonacept) and our product candidates. in addition, we may face difficulties in developing or acquiring production technology and managerial personnel to manufacture sufficient quantities of our product candidates at reasonable costs and in compliance with applicable quality assurance and environmental regulations and governmental permitting requirements. if any of our clinical programs are discontinued, we may face costs related to the unused capacity at our manufacturing facilities. we have large-scale manufacturing operations in rensselaer, new york. we use our facilities to produce bulk product for clinical and preclinical candidates for ourselves and our collaborations. if our clinical candidates are discontinued, we will have to absorb one hundred percent of related overhead costs and inefficiencies. third-party supply failures or a business interruption at our manufacturing facility in rensselaer, new york could adversely affect our ability to supply our products. we manufacture all of our bulk drug materials for arcalyst and our product candidates at our manufacturing facility in rensselaer, new york. we would be unable to supply our product requirements if we were to cease production due to regulatory requirements or action, business interruptions, labor shortages or disputes, contaminations, or other problems at the facility. certain raw materials necessary for manufacturing and formulation of arcalyst and our product candidates are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. in addition, we rely on certain third parties to perform filling, finishing, distribution, and other services related to the manufacture of our products. we would be unable to obtain these raw materials or services for an indeterminate period of time if any of these third-parties were to cease or interrupt production or otherwise fail to supply these materials, products, or services to us for any reason, including due to regulatory requirements or action, adverse financial developments at or affecting the supplier, business interruptions, or labor shortages or disputes. this, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our ability to manufacture or supply arcalyst or our product candidates for use in clinical trials, which could materially and adversely affect our business and future prospects. also, certain of the raw materials required in the manufacturing and the formulation of our clinical candidates may be derived from biological sources, including mammalian tissues, bovine serum, and human serum albumin. there are certain european regulatory restrictions on using these biological source materials. if we are required to substitute for these sources to comply with european regulatory requirements, our clinical development activities may be delayed or interrupted. 21 risks related to commercialization of products if we are unable to establish sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities, or enter into agreements with third parties to do so, we will be unable to successfully market and sell future products. we are marketing and selling arcalyst for the treatment of caps ourselves in the united states, primarily through third party service providers. we have no sales or distribution personnel in the united states and have only a small staff with commercial capabilities. we have no sales, marketing, commercial, or distribution capabilities outside the united states. if we are unable to obtain those capabilities, either by developing our own organizations or entering into agreements with service providers, even if our current or future product candidates receive marketing approval, we will not be able to successfully sell those products. in that event, we will not be able to generate significant revenue, even if our product candidates are approved. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to hire the qualified sales and marketing personnel we need or that we will be able to enter into marketing or distribution agreements with third-party providers on acceptable terms, if at all. under the terms of our collaboration agreement with sanofi-aventis, we currently rely on sanofi-aventis for sales, marketing, and distribution of aflibercept in cancer indications, should it be approved in the future by regulatory authorities for marketing. we will have to rely on a third party or devote significant resources to develop our own sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities for our other product candidates, including vegf trap-eye in the united states, and we may be unsuccessful in developing our own sales, marketing, and distribution organization. there may be too few patients with caps to profitably commercialize arcalyst (rilonacept) in this indication. our only approved product is arcalyst for the treatment of caps, a group of rare, inherited auto-inflammatory diseases. these rare diseases affect a very small group of people. the incidence of caps has been reported to be approximately 1 in 1,000,000 people in the united states. although the incidence rate of caps in europe has not been reported, it is known to be a rare set of diseases. as a result, there may be too few patients with caps to profitably commercialize arcalyst in this indication. even if our product candidates are approved for marketing, their commercial success is highly uncertain because our competitors have received approval for products with a similar mechanism of action, and competitors may get to the marketplace with better or lower cost drugs. there is substantial competition in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries from pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and chemical companies. many of our competitors have substantially greater research, preclinical and clinical product development and manufacturing capabilities, and financial, marketing, and human resources than we do. our smaller competitors may also enhance their competitive position if they acquire or discover patentable inventions, form collaborative arrangements, or merge with large pharmaceutical companies. even if we achieve product commercialization, our competitors have achieved, and may continue to achieve, product commercialization before our products are approved for marketing and sale. genentech has an approved vegf antagonist, avastin (beracizumab), on the market for treating certain cancers and many different pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are working to develop competing vegf antagonists, including novartis, osi pharmaceuticals, inc., and pfizer. many of these molecules are farther along in development than aflibercept and may offer competitive advantages over our molecule. each of pfizer and onyx pharmaceuticals, (together with its partner bayer healthcare) has received approval from the fda to market and sell an oral medication that targets tumor cell growth and new vasculature formation that fuels the growth of tumors. the marketing approvals for genentech vegf antagonist, avastin, and their extensive, ongoing clinical development plan for avastin in other cancer indications, make it more difficult for us to enroll patients in clinical trials to support aflibercept and to obtain regulatory approval of aflibercept in these cancer settings. this may delay or impair our ability to successfully develop and commercialize aflibercept. in addition, even if aflibercept is ever approved for sale for the treatment of certain cancers, it will be difficult for our drug to compete against avastin (genentech) and the fda approved kinase inhibitors, because doctors and patients will have significant experience using these medicines. in addition, an oral medication may be considerably less expensive for patients than a biologic medication, providing a competitive advantage to companies that market such products. 22 the market for eye disease products is also very competitive. novartis and genentech are collaborating on the commercialization and further development of a vegf antibody fragment, ranibizumab (lucentis ), for the treatment of age-related macular degeneration (wet amd) and other eye indications that was approved by the fda in june 2006. many other companies are working on the development of product candidates for the potential treatment of wet amd and dme that act by blocking vegf, vegf receptors, and through the use of small interfering ribonucleic acids (sirnas) that modulate gene expression. in addition, ophthalmologists are using off-label a third-party reformatted version of genentech approved vegf antagonist, avastin , with success for the treatment of wet amd. the national eye institute is conducting a phase 3 trial comparing lucentis (genentech) to avastin (genentech) in the treatment of wet amd. the marketing approval of lucentis (genentech) and the potential off-label use of avastin (genentech) make it more difficult for us to enroll patients in our clinical trials and successfully develop vegf trap-eye. even if vegf trap-eye is ever approved for sale for the treatment of eye diseases, it may be difficult for our drug to compete against lucentis (genentech), because doctors and patients will have significant experience using this medicine. moreover, the relatively low cost of therapy with avastin (genentech) in patients with wet amd presents a further competitive challenge in this indication. the availability of highly effective fda approved tnf-antagonists such as enbrel (immunex), remicade (centocor), and humira (abbott laboratories), and the il-1 receptor antagonist kineret (amgen), and other marketed therapies makes it more difficult to successfully develop and commercialize arcalyst. this is one of the reasons we discontinued the development of arcalyst in adult rheumatoid arthritis. in addition, even if arcalyst is ever approved for sale in indications where tnf-antagonists are approved, it will be difficult for our drug to compete against these fda approved tnf-antagonists because doctors and patients will have significant experience using these effective medicines. moreover, in such indications these approved therapeutics may offer competitive advantages over arcalyst, such as requiring fewer injections. there are both small molecules and antibodies in development by other companies that are designed to block the synthesis of interleukin-1 or inhibit the signaling of interleukin-1. for example, eli lilly, xoma, and novartis are each developing antibodies to interleukin-1 and amgen is developing an antibody to the interleukin-1 receptor. novartis has filed applications in the u.s. and europe seeking regulatory approval of its il-1 antibody in caps. novartis is also developing its il-1 antibody in gout and other inflammatory diseases. novartis has stated that its il-1 antibody demonstrated long-lasting clinical remission in patients with caps and that its clinical candidate could develop into a major therapeutic advance in the treatment of caps. novartis il-1 antibody and these other drug candidates could offer competitive advantages over arcalyst. the successful development of these competing molecules could impair our ability to successfully commercialize arcalyst. we have plans to develop arcalyst for the treatment of certain gout indications. currently, inexpensive, oral therapies such as analgesics and other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are used as the standard of care to treat the symptoms of these gout diseases. these established, inexpensive, orally delivered drugs may make it difficult for us to successfully commercialize arcalyst in these diseases. the successful commercialization of arcalyst (rilonacept) and our product candidates will depend on obtaining coverage and reimbursement for use of these products from third-party payers and these payers may not agree to cover or reimburse for use of our products. our product candidates, if commercialized, may be significantly more expensive than traditional drug treatments. for example, we have announced plans to initiate a phase 3 program studying the use of arcalyst for the treatment of certain gout indications. patients suffering from these gout indications are currently treated with inexpensive therapies, including non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. these existing treatment options are likely to be considerably less expensive and may be preferable to a biologic medication for some patients. our future revenues and profitability will be adversely affected if united states and foreign governmental, private third-party insurers and payers, and other third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid, do not agree to defray or reimburse the cost of our products to the patients. if these entities refuse to provide coverage and reimbursement with respect to our products or provide an insufficient level of coverage and reimbursement, our products may be too costly for many patients to afford them, and physicians may not prescribe them. many third-party payers cover only selected drugs, making drugs that are not preferred by such payer more expensive for patients, and require prior authorization or failure on another type of treatment before covering a particular drug. payers may especially impose these obstacles to coverage on higher-priced drugs, as our product candidates are likely to be. 23 we market and sell arcalyst (rilonacept) in the united states for the treatment of a group of rare genetic disorders called caps. there may be too few patients with caps to profitably commercialize arcalyst. physicians may not prescribe arcalyst, and caps patients may not be able to afford arcalyst, if third party payers do not agree to reimburse the cost of arcalyst therapy and this would adversely affect our ability to commercialize arcalyst profitably. in addition to potential restrictions on coverage, the amount of reimbursement for our products may also reduce our profitability. in the united states, there have been, and we expect will continue to be, actions and proposals to control and reduce healthcare costs. government and other third-party payers are challenging the prices charged for healthcare products and increasingly limiting, and attempting to limit, both coverage and level of reimbursement for prescription drugs. since arcalyst and our product candidates in clinical development, will likely be too expensive for most patients to afford without health insurance coverage, if our products are unable to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement by third-party payers our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates may be adversely impacted. any limitation on the use of our products or any decrease in the price of our products will have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve profitability. in certain foreign countries, pricing, coverage, and level of reimbursement of prescription drugs are subject to governmental control, and we may be unable to negotiate coverage, pricing, and reimbursement on terms that are favorable to us. in some foreign countries, the proposed pricing for a drug must be approved before it may be lawfully marketed. the requirements governing drug pricing vary widely from country to country. for example, the european union provides options for its member states to restrict the range of medicinal products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices of medicinal products for human use. a member state may approve a specific price for the medicinal product or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the medicinal product on the market. our results of operations may suffer if we are unable to market our products in foreign countries or if coverage and reimbursement for our products in foreign countries is limited. risk related to employees we are dependent on our key personnel and if we cannot recruit and retain leaders in our research, development, manufacturing, and commercial organizations, our business will be harmed. we are highly dependent on certain of our executive officers. if we are not able to retain any of these persons or our chairman, our business may suffer. in particular, we depend on the services of p. roy vagelos, m.d., the chairman of our board of directors, leonard schleifer, m.d., ph.d., our president and chief executive officer, george d. yancopoulos, m.d., ph.d., our executive vice president, chief scientific officer and president, regeneron research laboratories, and neil stahl, ph.d., our senior vice president, research and development sciences. there is intense competition in the biotechnology industry for qualified scientists and managerial personnel in the development, manufacture, and commercialization of drugs. we may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for developing our business. our move to new facilities in mid-2009 could lead to disruptions in our business operations. we plan to move most of our laboratories and headquarters to new facilities in mid-2009. there is a risk that this physical move could lead to damage to equipment or other business assets or the loss of important data, or that we could encounter problems with our new facilities, which could disrupt or delay our business operations. risks related to our common stock our stock price is extremely volatile. there has been significant volatility in our stock price and generally in the market prices of biotechnology companies securities. various factors and events may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. these factors include, by way of example: 24 progress, delays, or adverse results in clinical trials; announcement of technological innovations or product candidates by us or competitors; fluctuations in our operating results; third party claims that our products or technologies infringe their party patents; public concern as to the safety or effectiveness of arcalyst (rilonacept) or any of our product candidates; developments in our relationship with collaborative partners; developments in the biotechnology industry or in government regulation of healthcare; large sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors, or significant shareholders; arrivals and departures of key personnel; and general market conditions. the trading price of our common stock has been, and could continue to be, subject to wide fluctuations in response to these and other factors, including the sale or attempted sale of a large amount of our common stock in the market. broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the market price of our common stock. future sales of our common stock by our significant shareholders or us may depress our stock price and impair our ability to raise funds in new share offerings. a small number of our shareholders beneficially own a substantial amount of our common stock. as of december 31, 2008, our five largest shareholders plus leonard s. schleifer, m.d. ph.d., our chief executive officer, beneficially owned 55.9% of our outstanding shares of common stock, assuming, in the case of our chief executive officer, the conversion of his class a stock into common stock and the exercise of all options held by him which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2008. as of december 31, 2008, sanofi-aventis beneficially owned 14,799,552 shares of common stock, representing approximately 19.1% the shares of common stock then outstanding. under our investor agreement with sanofi-aventis, sanofi-aventis may not sell these shares until december 20, 2012 except under limited circumstances and subject to earlier termination of these restrictions upon the occurrence of certain events. notwithstanding these restrictions, if sanofi-aventis, or our other significant shareholders or we, sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur exists, the market price of our common stock could fall. sales of common stock by our significant shareholders, including sanofi-aventis, also might make it more difficult for us to raise funds by selling equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. our existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval. holders of class a stock, who are generally the shareholders who purchased their stock from us before our initial public offering, are entitled to ten votes per share, while holders of common stock are entitled to one vote per share. as of december 31, 2008, holders of class a stock held 22.5% of the combined voting power of all shares of common stock and class a stock then outstanding, plus any voting power associated with any shares of common stock beneficially owned by such class a stock holders. these shareholders, if acting together, would be in a position to significantly influence the election of our directors and to effect or prevent certain corporate transactions that require majority or supermajority approval of the combined classes, including mergers and other business combinations. this may result in us taking corporate actions that you may not consider to be in your best interest and may affect the price of our common stock. as of december 31, 2008: our current executive officers and directors beneficially owned 13.3% of our outstanding shares of common stock, assuming conversion of their class a stock into common stock and the exercise of all options held by such persons which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2008, and 28.0% of the combined voting power of our outstanding shares of common stock and class a stock, assuming the exercise of all options held by such persons which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2008; and 25 our five largest shareholders plus leonard s. schleifer, m.d., ph.d., our chief executive officer, beneficially owned 55.9% of our outstanding shares of common stock, assuming, in the case of our chief executive officer, the conversion of his class a stock into common stock and the exercise of all options held by him which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2008. in addition, these six shareholders held 59.6% of the combined voting power of our outstanding shares of common stock and class a stock, assuming the exercise of all options held by our chief executive officer which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2008. pursuant to an investor agreement, sanofi-aventis has agreed to vote its shares, at sanofi-aventis election, either as recommended by our board of directors or proportionally with the votes cast by our other shareholders, except with respect to certain change of control transactions, liquidation or dissolution, stock issuances equal to or exceeding 10% of the then outstanding shares or voting rights of common stock and class a stock, and new equity compensation plans or amendments if not materially consistent with our historical equity compensation practices. the anti-takeover effects of provisions of our charter, by-laws, and of new york corporate law and the contractual standstill provisions in our investor agreement with sanofi-aventis, could deter, delay, or prevent an acquisition or other change in control of us and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our by-laws and the new york business corporation law contain various provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company or our management that shareholders may consider favorable or beneficial. some of these provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other shareholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. these provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. these provisions include: authorization to issue blank check preferred stock, which is preferred stock that can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior shareholder approval, with rights senior to those of our common shareholders; a staggered board of directors, so that it would take three successive annual meetings to replace all of our directors; a requirement that removal of directors may only be effected for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of at least eighty percent (80%) of the outstanding shares entitled to vote for directors, as well as a requirement that any vacancy on the board of directors may be filled only by the remaining directors; any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of shareholders may be taken without a meeting, only if, prior to such action, all of our shareholders consent, the effect of which is to require that shareholder action may only be taken at a duly convened meeting; any shareholder seeking to bring business before an annual meeting of shareholders must provide timely notice of this intention in writing and meet various other requirements; and under the new york business corporation law, in addition to certain restrictions which may apply to business combinations involving the company and an interested shareholder , a plan of merger or consolidation of the company must be approved by two-thirds of the votes of all outstanding shares entitled to vote thereon. see the risk factor immediately above captioned our existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval. until the later of the fifth anniversaries of the expiration or earlier termination of our antibody collaboration agreements with sanofi-aventis or our aflibercept collaboration with sanofi-aventis, sanofi-aventis will be bound by certain standstill provisions, which contractually prohibit sanofi-aventis from acquiring more than certain specified percentages of our class a stock and common stock (taken together) or otherwise seeking to obtain control of the company. in addition, we have a change in control severance plan and our chief executive officer has an employment agreement that provides severance benefits in the event our officers are terminated as a result of a change in control of the company. many of our stock options issued under our amended and restated 2000 long-term incentive plan may become fully vested in connection with a change in control of our company, as defined in the plan. 26 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our earnings and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to changes in interest rates primarily from our investment of available cash balances in u.s. government, corporate, and asset-backed securities. we do not believe we are materially exposed to changes in interest rates. under our current policies, we do not use interest rate derivative instruments to manage exposure to interest rate changes. we estimated that a one percent unfavorable change in interest rates would result in approximately a $1.9 million decrease in the fair value of our investment portfolio at both december 31, 2008 and 2007. credit quality risk we have an investment policy that includes guidelines on acceptable investment securities, minimum credit quality, maturity parameters, and concentration and diversification. nonetheless, deterioration of the credit quality of an investment security subsequent to purchase may subject us to the risk of not being able to recover the full principal value of the security. in the second half of 2007, we recognized a $5.9 million charge related to marketable securities from two issuers which we considered to be other than temporarily impaired in value. in 2008, an additional $0.7 million impairment charge was recognized related to one of these securities and a $1.8 million charge was recognized related to another marketable security which we considered to be other than temporarily impaired in value.risk factors we operate in an environment that involves a number of significant risks and uncertainties. we caution you to read the following risk factors, which have affected, and/or in the future could affect, our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. the risks described below include forward-looking statements, and actual events and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. furthermore, additional risks and uncertainties are described under other captions in this report and should be considered by our investors. risks related to our financial results and need for additional financing we have had a history of operating losses and we may never achieve profitability. if we continue to incur operating losses, we may be unable to continue our operations. from inception on january 8, 1988 through december 31, 2009, we had a cumulative loss of $941.1 million. if we continue to incur operating losses and fail to become a profitable company, we may be unable to continue our operations. in the absence of substantial revenue from the sale of products or other sources, the amount, timing, nature or source of which cannot be predicted, our losses will continue as we conduct our research and development activities. we may need additional funding in the future, which may not be available to us, and which may force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts. we will need to expend substantial resources for research and development, including costs associated with clinical testing of our product candidates. we believe our existing capital resources, including funding we are entitled to receive under our collaboration agreements, will enable us to meet operating needs through at least 2012; however, one or more of our collaboration agreements may terminate, our projected revenue may decrease, or our expenses may increase and that would lead to our capital being consumed significantly before such time. we may require additional financing in the future and we may not be able to raise such additional funds. if we are able to obtain additional financing through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, such sales may be dilutive to our shareholders. debt financing arrangements may require us to pledge certain assets or enter into covenants that would restrict our business activities or our ability to incur further indebtedness and may contain other terms that are not favorable to our shareholders. if we are unable to raise sufficient funds to complete the development of our product candidates, we may face delay, reduction or elimination of our research and development programs or preclinical or clinical trials, in which case our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially harmed. the value of our investment portfolio, which includes cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, is influenced by varying economic and market conditions. a decrease in the value of an asset in our investment portfolio or a default by the issuer may result in our inability to recover the principal we invested and/or a recognition of a loss charged against income. as of december 31, 2009, cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and marketable securities totaled $390.0 million and represented 53% of our total assets. we have invested our excess cash primarily in direct obligations of the u.s. government and its agencies, other debt securities guaranteed by the u.s. government, and money market funds that invest in u.s. government securities and, to a lesser extent, investment grade debt securities issued by corporations, bank deposits, and asset-backed securities. we consider assets classified as marketable securities to be available-for-sale, as defined by fasb authoritative guidance. marketable securities totaled $181.3 million at december 31, 2009, are carried at fair value, and the unrealized gains and losses are included in other accumulated 14 comprehensive income (loss) as a separate component of stockholders' equity. if the decline in the value of a security in our investment portfolio is deemed to be other-than-temporary, we write down the security to its current fair value and recognize a loss which may be fully charged against income. for example, we recognized other-than-temporary impairment charges related to certain marketable securities of $5.9 million, $2.5 million and $0.1 million in 2007, 2008, and 2009, respectively. the current economic environment, the deterioration in the credit quality of some of the issuers of securities that we hold, and the recent volatility of securities markets increase the risk that we may not recover the principal we invested and/or there may be further declines in the market value of securities in our investment portfolio. as a result, we may incur additional charges against income in future periods for other-than-temporary impairments or realized losses upon a security's sale or maturity, and such amounts may be material. risks related to arcalyst (rilonacept) and the development of our product candidates successful development of any of our product candidates is highly uncertain. only a small minority of all research and development programs ultimately result in commercially successful drugs. even if clinical trials demonstrate safety and effectiveness of any of our product candidates for a specific disease and the necessary regulatory approvals are obtained, the commercial success of any of our product candidates will depend upon their acceptance by patients, the medical community, and third-party payers and on our partners' ability to successfully manufacture and commercialize our product candidates. our product candidates are delivered either by intravenous infusion or by intravitreal or subcutaneous injections, which are generally less well received by patients than tablet or capsule delivery. if our products are not successfully commercialized, we will not be able to recover the significant investment we have made in developing such products and our business would be severely harmed. we are testing aflibercept, vegf trap-eye, and rilonacept in a number of late-stage clinical trials. clinical trials may not demonstrate statistically sufficient effectiveness and safety to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for these product candidates. in a number of instances, we have terminated the development of product candidates due to a lack of or modest effectiveness. aflibercept is in phase 3 clinical trials in combination with standard chemotherapy regimens for the treatment of 2 nd line metastatic colorectal cancer, 1 st line androgen independent prostate cancer, and 2 nd line metastatic non-small cell lung cancer. aflibercept may not demonstrate the required safety or efficacy to support an application for approval in any of these indications. we do not have proof of concept data from early-stage, double-blind, controlled clinical trials that aflibercept will be safe or effective in any of these cancer settings. we are testing vegf trap-eye in phase 3 trials for the treatment of wet amd and the treatment of central retinal vein occlusion (crvo). although we reported positive phase 2 trial results with vegf trap-eye in wet amd, based on a limited number of patients, the results from the larger phase 3 trials may not demonstrate that vegf trap-eye is safe and effective or compares favorably to lucentis (genentech). a number of other potential new drugs and biologics which showed promising results in initial clinical trials subsequently failed to establish sufficient safety and efficacy data to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. vegf trap-eye has not been previously studied in crvo. rilonacept is in phase 3 clinical trials for two different gout indications the prevention of gout flares in patients initiating urate-lowering drug therapy and acute gout. we do not have proof of concept data from phase 2 clinical trials that rilonacept will be safe or effective in the acute gout setting. although we reported positive phase 2 proof of concept data from a small number of patients initiating urate-lowering drug therapy, there is a risk that the results of the larger phase 3 trials of rilonacept in patients initiating urate-lowering drug therapy will differ from the previously reported phase 2 trial. a number of potential new drugs and biologics which showed promising results in initial clinical trials subsequently failed to establish sufficient safety and efficacy data to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. we are studying our antibody candidates in a wide variety of indications in early stage clinical trials. many of these trials are exploratory studies designed to evaluate the safety profile of these compounds and to identify what diseases and uses, if any, are best suited for these product candidates. these early stage product candidates may not demonstrate the requisite efficacy and/or safety profile to support continued development for some or all of the indications that are being, or are planned to be, studied. 15 clinical trials required for our product candidates are expensive and time-consuming, and their outcome is highly uncertain. if any of our drug trials are delayed or yield unfavorable results, we will have to delay or may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates. we must conduct extensive testing of our product candidates before we can obtain regulatory approval to market and sell them. we need to conduct both preclinical animal testing and human clinical trials. conducting these trials is a lengthy, time-consuming, and expensive process. these tests and trials may not achieve favorable results for many reasons, including, among others, failure of the product candidate to demonstrate safety or efficacy, the development of serious or life-threatening adverse events (or side effects) caused by or connected with exposure to the product candidate, difficulty in enrolling and maintaining subjects in the clinical trial, lack of sufficient supplies of the product candidate or comparator drug, and the failure of clinical investigators, trial monitors, contractors, consultants, or trial subjects to comply with the trial plan or protocol. a clinical trial may fail because it did not include a sufficient number of patients to detect the endpoint being measured or reach statistical significance. a clinical trial may also fail because the dose(s) of the investigational drug included in the trial were either too low or too high to determine the optimal effect of the investigational drug in the disease setting. many of our clinical trials are conducted under the oversight of independent data monitoring committees (or idmcs). these independent oversight bodies are made up of external experts who review the progress of ongoing clinical trials, including available safety and efficacy data, and make recommendations concerning a trial's continuation, modification, or termination based on interim, unblinded data. any of our ongoing clinical trials may be discontinued or amended in response to recommendations made by responsible idmcs based on their review of such interim trial results. for example, in september 2009, a phase 3 trial that was evaluating aflibercept as a 1 st line treatment for metastic pancreatic cancer in combination with gemcitabine was discontinued at the recommendation of an idmc after a planned analysis of interim efficacy data determined that the trial would not meet its efficacy endpoint. the recommended termination of any of our ongoing late-stage clinical trials by an idmc could harm the future development of our product candidate(s) and our business may be materially harmed. we will need to reevaluate any drug candidate that does not test favorably and either conduct new trials, which are expensive and time consuming, or abandon the drug development program. even if we obtain positive results from preclinical or clinical trials, we may not achieve the same success in future trials. many companies in the biopharmaceutical industry, including regeneron, have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, even after promising results have been obtained in earlier trials. the failure of clinical trials to demonstrate safety and effectiveness for the desired indication(s) could harm the development of our product candidate(s), and our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially harmed. serious complications or side effects have occurred, and may continue to occur, in connection with the use of our approved product and in clinical trials of some of our product candidates which could cause our regulatory approval to be revoked or otherwise negatively affected or lead to delay or discontinuation of development of our product candidates which could severely harm our business. during the conduct of clinical trials, patients report changes in their health, including illnesses, injuries, and discomforts, to their study doctor. often, it is not possible to determine whether or not the drug candidate being studied caused these conditions. various illnesses, injuries, and discomforts have been reported from time-to-time during clinical trials of our product candidates. it is possible as we test our drug candidates in larger, longer, and more extensive clinical programs, illnesses, injuries, and discomforts that were observed in earlier trials, as well as conditions that did not occur or went undetected in smaller previous trials, will be reported by patients. many times, side effects are only detectable after investigational drugs are tested in large scale, phase 3 clinical trials or, in some cases, after they are made available to patients after approval. if additional clinical experience indicates that any of our product candidates has many side effects or causes serious or life-threatening side effects, the development of the product candidate may fail or be delayed, which would severely harm our business. aflibercept (vegf trap) is being studied for the potential treatment of certain types of cancer and our vegf trap-eye candidate is being studied in diseases of the eye. there are many potential safety concerns associated with significant blockade of vascular endothelial growth factor, or vegf, that may limit our ability to successfully develop aflibercept and vegf trap-eye. these serious and potentially life-threatening risks, based on clinical and preclinical experience of vegf inhibitors, include bleeding, intestinal perforation, hypertension, proteinuria, 16 congestive heart failure, heart attack, and stroke. in addition, patients given infusions of any protein, including vegf trap delivered through intravenous administration, may develop severe hypersensitivity reactions or infusion reactions. other vegf blockers have reported side effects that became evident only after large scale trials or after marketing approval and large number of patients were treated. these and other complications or side effects could harm the development of aflibercept for the treatment of cancer or vegf trap-eye for the treatment of diseases of the eye. we have tested arcalyst (rilonacept) in only a small number of patients. as more patients begin to use our product and as we test it in new disease settings, new risks and side effects associated with arcalyst may be discovered, and risks previously viewed as inconsequential could be determined to be significant. like cytokine antagonists such as kineret (anakinra), marketed by biovitrum, enbrel (etanercept), marketed by amgen and wyeth pharmaceuticals, inc., and remicade (infliximab) marketed by centocor, arcalyst affects the immune defense system of the body by blocking some of its functions. therefore, arcalyst may interfere with the body's ability to fight infections. treatment with kineret (biovitrum), a medication that works through the inhibition of il-1, has been associated with an increased risk of serious infections, and serious, life threatening infections have been reported in patients taking arcalyst. these or other complications or side effects could cause regulatory authorities to revoke approvals of arcalyst. alternatively, we may be required to conduct additional clinical trials, make changes in the labeling of our product, or limit or abandon our efforts to develop arcalyst in new disease settings. these side effects may also result in a reduction, or even the elimination, of sales of arcalyst in approved indications. arcalyst (rilonacept) and our product candidates in development are recombinant proteins that could cause an immune response, resulting in the creation of harmful or neutralizing antibodies against the therapeutic protein. in addition to the safety, efficacy, manufacturing, and regulatory hurdles faced by our product candidates, the administration of recombinant proteins frequently causes an immune response, resulting in the creation of antibodies against the therapeutic protein. the antibodies can have no effect or can totally neutralize the effectiveness of the protein, or require that higher doses be used to obtain a therapeutic effect. in some cases, the antibody can cross react with the patient's own proteins, resulting in an auto-immune type disease. whether antibodies will be created can often not be predicted from preclinical or clinical experiments, and their detection or appearance is often delayed, so that there can be no assurance that neutralizing antibodies will not be detected at a later date, in some cases even after pivotal clinical trials have been completed. antibodies directed against the receptor domains of rilonacept were detected in patients with caps after treatment with arcalyst. nineteen of 55 subjects (35%) who received arcalyst for at least 6 weeks tested positive for treatment-emerging binding antibodies on at least one occasion. to date, no side effects related to antibodies were observed in these subjects and there were no observed effects on drug efficacy or drug levels. it is possible that as we continue to test aflibercept and vegf trap-eye with more sensitive assays in different patient populations and larger clinical trials, we will find that subjects given aflibercept and vegf trap-eye develop antibodies to these product candidates, and may also experience side effects related to the antibodies, which could adversely impact the development of such candidates. we may be unable to formulate or manufacture our product candidates in a way that is suitable for clinical or commercial use. changes in product formulations and manufacturing processes may be required as product candidates progress in clinical development and are ultimately commercialized. if we are unable to develop suitable product formulations or manufacturing processes to support large scale clinical testing of our product candidates, including aflibercept, vegf trap-eye, and our antibody candidates, we may be unable to supply necessary materials for our clinical trials, which would delay the development of our product candidates. similarly, if we are unable to supply sufficient quantities of our product or develop product formulations suitable for commercial use, we will not be able to successfully commercialize our product candidates. 17 risks related to intellectual property if we cannot protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets or our patents are insufficient to protect our proprietary rights, our business and competitive position will be harmed. our business requires using sensitive and proprietary technology and other information that we protect as trade secrets. we seek to prevent improper disclosure of these trade secrets through confidentiality agreements. if our trade secrets are improperly exposed, either by our own employees or our collaborators, it would help our competitors and adversely affect our business. we will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our rights are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. the patent position of biotechnology companies involves complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, enforceability cannot be predicted with certainty. our patents may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented. patent applications filed outside the united states may be challenged by third parties who file an opposition. such opposition proceedings are increasingly common in the european union and are costly to defend. we have pending patent applications in the european patent office and it is likely that we will need to defend patent applications from third party challengers from time to time in the future. our patent rights may not provide us with a proprietary position or competitive advantages against competitors. furthermore, even if the outcome is favorable to us, the enforcement of our intellectual property rights can be extremely expensive and time consuming. we may be restricted in our development and/or commercialization activities by, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed, third party patents or other proprietary rights. our commercial success depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of third parties. other parties may allege that they have blocking patents to our products in clinical development, either because they claim to hold proprietary rights to the composition of a product or the way it is manufactured or used. moreover, other parties may allege that they have blocking patents to antibody products made using our velocimmune technology, either because of the way the antibodies are discovered or produced or because of a proprietary position covering an antibody or the antibody's target. we are aware of patents and pending applications owned by genentech that claim certain chimeric vegf receptor compositions. although we do not believe that aflibercept or vegf trap-eye infringes any valid claim in these patents or patent applications, genentech could initiate a lawsuit for patent infringement and assert that its patents are valid and cover aflibercept or vegf trap-eye. genentech may be motivated to initiate such a lawsuit at some point in an effort to impair our ability to develop and sell aflibercept or vegf trap-eye, which represent potential competitive threats to genentech's vegf-binding products and product candidates. an adverse determination by a court in any such potential patent litigation would likely materially harm our business by requiring us to seek a license, which may not be available, or resulting in our inability to manufacture, develop, and sell aflibercept or vegf trap-eye or in a damage award. we are aware of patents and pending applications owned by roche that claim antibodies to the interleukin-6 receptor and methods of treating rheumatoid arthritis with such antibodies. we are developing regn88, an antibody to the interleukin-6 receptor, for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. although we do not believe that regn88 infringes any valid claim in these patents or patent applications, roche could initiate a lawsuit for patent infringement and assert its patents are valid and cover regn88. we are aware of a u.s. patent jointly owned by genentech and city of hope relating to the production of recombinant antibodies in host cells. we currently produce our antibody product candidates using recombinant antibodies from host cells and may choose to produce additional antibody product candidates in this manner. neither arcalyst (rilonacept), aflibercept, nor vegf trap-eye are recombinant antibodies. if any of our antibody product candidates are produced in a manner subject to valid claims in the genentech patent, then we may need to obtain a license from genentech, should one be available. genentech has licensed this patent to several different companies under confidential license agreements. if we desire a license for any of our antibody product candidates and are unable to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms or at all, we may be restricted in our ability to use genentech's techniques to make recombinant antibodies in or to import them into the united states. further, we are aware of a number of other third party patent applications that, if granted, with claims as currently drafted, may cover our current or planned activities. we cannot assure you that our products and/or actions in manufacturing and selling our product candidates will not infringe such patents. 18 any patent holders could sue us for damages and seek to prevent us from manufacturing, selling, or developing our drug candidates, and a court may find that we are infringing validly issued patents of third parties. in the event that the manufacture, use, or sale of any of our clinical candidates infringes on the patents or violates other proprietary rights of third parties, we may be prevented from pursuing product development, manufacturing, and commercialization of our drugs and may be required to pay costly damages. such a result may materially harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. legal disputes are likely to be costly and time consuming to defend. we seek to obtain licenses to patents when, in our judgment, such licenses are needed. if any licenses are required, we may not be able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. the failure to obtain any such license could prevent us from developing or commercializing any one or more of our product candidates, which could severely harm our business. regulatory and litigation risks if we do not obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, we will not be able to market or sell them. we cannot sell or market products without regulatory approval. if we do not obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our product candidates, including arcalyst (rilonacept) for the treatment of diseases other than caps, the value of our company and our results of operations will be harmed. in the united states, we must obtain and maintain approval from the united states food and drug administration (fda) for each drug we intend to sell. obtaining fda approval is typically a lengthy and expensive process, and approval is highly uncertain. foreign governments also regulate drugs distributed in their country and approval in any country is likely to be a lengthy and expensive process, and approval is highly uncertain. except for the fda approval of arcalyst and the emea approval of rilonacept for the treatment of caps, none of our product candidates has ever received regulatory approval to be marketed and sold in the united states or any other country. we may never receive regulatory approval for any of our product candidates. the fda enforces good clinical practices and other regulations through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, clinical research organizations (cros), principal investigators, and trial sites. if we or any of the third parties conducting our clinical studies are determined to have failed to fully comply with good clinical practice regulations (gcps), the study protocol or applicable regulations, the clinical data generated in our studies may be deemed unreliable. this could result in non-approval of our product candidates by the fda, or we or the fda may decide to conduct additional audits or require additional clinical studies, which would delay our development programs and substantially harm our business. before approving a new drug or biologic product, the fda requires that the facilities at which the product will be manufactured be in compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cgmp requirements. manufacturing product candidates in compliance with these regulatory requirements is complex, time-consuming, and expensive. to be successful, our products must be manufactured for development, following approval, in commercial quantities, in compliance with regulatory requirements, and at competitive costs. if we or any of our product collaborators or third-party manufacturers, product packagers, or labelers are unable to maintain regulatory compliance, the fda can impose regulatory sanctions, including, among other things, refusal to approve a pending application for a new drug or biologic product, or revocation of a pre-existing approval. as a result, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially harmed. in addition to the fda and other regulatory agency regulations in the united states, we are subject to a variety of foreign regulatory requirements governing human clinical trials, manufacturing, marketing and approval of drugs, and commercial sale and distribution of drugs in foreign countries. the foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with fda approval as well as country specific regulations. whether or not we obtain fda approval for a product in the united states, we must obtain approval by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries before we can commence clinical trials or marketing of arcalyst or any of our product candidates in those countries. 19 if we fail to meet the stringent requirements of governmental regulation in the manufacture of our marketed product and clinical candidates, we could incur substantial remedial costs, delays in the development of our clinical candidates, and a reduction in sales. we and our third party providers are required to maintain compliance with current good manufacturing practice, or cgmp, and are subject to inspections by the fda or comparable agencies in other jurisdictions to confirm such compliance. changes of suppliers or modifications of methods of manufacturing may require amending our application to the fda and acceptance of the change by the fda prior to release of product. because we produce multiple product candidates at our facility in rensselaer, new york, there are increased risks associated with cgmp compliance. our inability, or the inability of our third party service providers, to demonstrate ongoing cgmp compliance could require us to engage in lengthy and expensive remediation efforts, withdraw or recall product, halt or interrupt clinical trials, and/or interrupt commercial supply of our marketed product. any delay, interruption or other issues that arise in the manufacture, fill-finish, packaging, or storage of our product candidates as a result of a failure of our facilities or the facilities or operations of third parties to pass any regulatory agency inspection or maintain cgmp compliance could significantly impair our ability to develop and commercialize our products. any finding of non-compliance could increase our costs, cause us to delay the development of our product candidates, and cause us to lose revenue from our marketed product. if the testing or use of our products harms people, we could be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims. the testing, manufacturing, marketing, and sale of drugs for use in people expose us to product liability risk. any informed consent or waivers obtained from people who sign up for our clinical trials may not protect us from liability or the cost of litigation. we may be subject to claims by caps patients who use arcalyst that they have been injured by a side effect associated with the drug. our product liability insurance may not cover all potential liabilities or may not completely cover any liability arising from any such litigation. moreover, we may not have access to liability insurance or be able to maintain our insurance on acceptable terms. if we market and sell arcalyst (rilonacept) in a way that violates federal or state fraud and abuse laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. in addition to fda and related regulatory requirements, we are subject to health care fraud and abuse laws, such as the federal false claims act, the anti-kickback provisions of the federal social security act, and other state and federal laws and regulations. federal and state anti-kickback laws prohibit, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce, or in return for, purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any health care item or service reimbursable under medicare, medicaid, or other federally or state financed health care programs. federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, such as allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; reporting to pricing services inflated average wholesale prices that were then used by federal programs to set reimbursement rates; engaging in promotion for uses that the fda has not approved, or off-label uses, that caused claims to be submitted to medicaid for non-covered off-label uses; and submitting inflated best price information to the medicaid rebate program. the majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payer. sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer's products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines, and imprisonment. even if we are not determined to have violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which would also harm our financial condition. because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the safe harbors, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. 20 in recent years, several states and localities, including california, the district of columbia, massachusetts, maine, minnesota, nevada, new mexico, vermont, and west virginia, have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, and file periodic reports with the state or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, and other activities. similar legislation is being considered in other states and also at the federal level. many of these requirements are new and uncertain, and the penalties for failure to comply with these requirements are unclear. nonetheless, if we are found not to be in full compliance with these laws, we could face enforcement action and fines and other penalties, and could receive adverse publicity. our operations may involve hazardous materials and are subject to environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations. we may incur substantial liability arising from our activities involving the use of hazardous materials. as a biopharmaceutical company with significant manufacturing operations, we are subject to extensive environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations, including those governing the use of hazardous materials. our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of chemicals, viruses, radioactive compounds, and other hazardous materials. the cost of compliance with environmental, health, and safety regulations is substantial. if an accident involving these materials or an environmental discharge were to occur, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, or face regulatory actions, which could exceed our resources or insurance coverage. changes in the securities laws and regulations have increased, and are likely to continue to increase, our costs. the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, which became law in july 2002, has required changes in some of our corporate governance, securities disclosure, and compliance practices. in response to the requirements of that act, the sec and the nasdaq stock market have promulgated rules and listing standards covering a variety of subjects. compliance with these rules and listing standards has increased our legal costs, and significantly increased our accounting and auditing costs, and we expect these costs to continue. these developments may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain directors' and officers' liability insurance. likewise, these developments may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly independent directors, or qualified executive officers. in future years, if we are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, the market value of our common stock could be adversely affected. as directed by section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, the sec adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company's internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on form 10-k that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. in addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing our financial statements must attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. our independent registered public accounting firm provided us with an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2009, which report is included in this annual report on form 10-k. however, we cannot assure you that management or our independent registered public accounting firm will be able to provide such an unqualified report as of future year-ends. in this event, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the market value of our common stock. in addition, if it is determined that deficiencies in the design or operation of internal controls exist and that they are reasonably likely to adversely affect our ability to record, process, summarize, and report financial information, we would likely incur additional costs to remediate these deficiencies and the costs of such remediation could be material. changes in laws and regulations affecting the healthcare industry could adversely affect our business. all aspects of our business, including research and development, manufacturing, marketing, pricing, sales, litigation, and intellectual property rights, are subject to extensive legislation and regulation. changes in applicable federal and state laws and agency regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. these include: changes in the fda and foreign regulatory processes for new therapeutics that may delay or prevent the approval of any of our current or future product candidates; 21 new laws, regulations, or judicial decisions related to healthcare availability or the payment for healthcare products and services, including prescription drugs, that would make it more difficult for us to market and sell products once they are approved by the fda or foreign regulatory agencies; changes in fda and foreign regulations that may require additional safety monitoring prior to or after the introduction of new products to market, which could materially increase our costs of doing business; and changes in fda and foreign current good manufacturing practice, or cgmps, that make it more difficult for us to manufacture our marketed product and clinical candidates in accordance with cgmps. the enactment in the united states of the medicare prescription drug improvement and modernization act of 2003 and current pending legislation which would ease the entry of competing follow-on biologics into the marketplace are examples of changes and possible changes in laws that could adversely affect our business. risks related to our reliance on third parties if our antibody collaboration with sanofi-aventis is terminated, our business operations and our ability to discover, develop, manufacture, and commercialize our pipeline of product candidates in the time expected, or at all, would be materially harmed. we rely heavily on the funding from sanofi-aventis to support our target discovery and antibody research and development programs. sanofi-aventis has committed to pay up to $1.28 billion between 2010 and 2017 to fund our efforts to identify and validate drug discovery targets and pre-clinically develop fully human monoclonal antibodies against such targets. in addition, sanofi-aventis funds almost all of the development expenses incurred by both companies in connection with the clinical development of antibodies that sanofi-aventis elects to co-develop with us. we rely on sanofi-aventis to fund these activities. in addition, with respect to those antibodies that sanofi-aventis elects to co-develop with us, such as regn88, regn421, regn475, regn727, and regn668 we rely on sanofi-aventis to lead much of the clinical development efforts and assist with obtaining regulatory approval, particularly outside the united states. we also rely on sanofi-aventis to lead the commercialization efforts to support all of the antibody products that are co-developed by sanofi-aventis and us. if sanofi-aventis does not elect to co-develop the antibodies that we discover or opts-out of their development, we would be required to fund and oversee on our own the clinical trials, any regulatory responsibilities, and the ensuing commercialization efforts to support our antibody products. if sanofi-aventis terminates the antibody collaboration or fails to comply with its payment obligations thereunder, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be materially harmed. we would be required to either expend substantially more resources than we have anticipated to support our research and development efforts, which could require us to seek additional funding that might not be available on favorable terms or at all, or materially cut back on such activities. while we cannot assure you that any of the antibodies from this collaboration will ever be successfully developed and commercialized, if sanofi-aventis does not perform its obligations with respect to antibodies that it elects to co-develop, our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize these antibody product candidates will be significantly adversely affected. if our collaboration with sanofi-aventis for aflibercept (vegf trap) is terminated, or sanofi-aventis materially breaches its obligations thereunder, our business operations and financial condition, and our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize aflibercept in the time expected, or at all, would be materially harmed. we rely heavily on sanofi-aventis to lead much of the development of aflibercept. sanofi-aventis funds all of the development expenses incurred by both companies in connection with the aflibercept program. if the aflibercept program continues, we will rely on sanofi-aventis to assist with funding the aflibercept program, provide commercial manufacturing capacity, enroll and monitor clinical trials, obtain regulatory approval, particularly outside the united states, and lead the commercialization of aflibercept. while we cannot assure you that aflibercept will ever be successfully developed and commercialized, if sanofi-aventis does not perform its obligations in a timely manner, or at all, our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize aflibercept in cancer indications will be significantly adversely affected. sanofi-aventis has the right to terminate its collaboration agreement with us at any time upon twelve months advance notice. if sanofi-aventis were to terminate its collaboration agreement with us, we would not have the resources or skills to replace those of our partner, which could require us to seek additional funding 22 that might not be available on favorable terms or at all, and could cause significant delays in the development and/or manufacture of aflibercept and result in substantial additional costs to us. we have limited commercial capabilities and would have to develop or outsource these capabilities. termination of the sanofi-aventis collaboration agreement for aflibercept would create substantial new and additional risks to the successful development and commercialization of aflibercept. if our collaboration with bayer healthcare for vegf trap-eye is terminated, or bayer healthcare materially breaches its obligations thereunder, our business, operations and financial condition, and our ability to develop and commercialize vegf trap-eye in the time expected, or at all, would be materially harmed. we rely heavily on bayer healthcare to assist with the development of vegf trap-eye. under our agreement with them, bayer healthcare is required to fund approximately half of the development expenses incurred by both companies in connection with the global vegf trap-eye development program. if the vegf trap-eye program continues, we will rely on bayer healthcare to assist with funding the vegf trap-eye development program, lead the development of vegf trap-eye outside the united states, obtain regulatory approval outside the united states, and provide all sales, marketing, and commercial support for the product outside the united states. in particular, bayer healthcare has responsibility for selling vegf trap-eye outside the united states using its sales force. while we cannot assure you that vegf trap-eye will ever be successfully developed and commercialized, if bayer healthcare does not perform its obligations in a timely manner, or at all, our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize vegf trap-eye outside the united states will be significantly adversely affected. bayer healthcare has the right to terminate its collaboration agreement with us at any time upon six or twelve months advance notice, depending on the circumstances giving rise to termination. if bayer healthcare were to terminate its collaboration agreement with us, we would not have the resources or skills to replace those of our partner, which could require us to seek additional funding that might not be available on favorable terms or at all, and could cause significant delays in the development and/or commercialization of vegf trap-eye outside the united states and result in substantial additional costs to us. we have limited commercial capabilities and would have to develop or outsource these capabilities outside the united states. termination of the bayer healthcare collaboration agreement would create substantial new and additional risks to the successful development and commercialization of vegf trap-eye. our collaborators and service providers may fail to perform adequately in their efforts to support the development, manufacture, and commercialization of arcalyst (rilonacept) and our drug candidates. we depend upon third-party collaborators, including sanofi-aventis, bayer healthcare, and service providers such as clinical research organizations, outside testing laboratories, clinical investigator sites, and third-party manufacturers and product packagers and labelers, to assist us in the manufacture and preclinical and clinical development of our product candidates. if any of our existing collaborators or service providers breaches or terminates its agreement with us or does not perform its development or manufacturing services under an agreement in a timely manner or in compliance with applicable good manufacturing practices (gmps), good laboratory practices (glps), or good clinical practice (gcp) standards, we could experience additional costs, delays, and difficulties in the manufacture or development or in obtaining approval by regulatory authorities for our product candidates. we rely on third party service providers to support the distribution of arcalyst and many other related activities in connection with the commercialization of arcalyst for the treatment of caps. we cannot be certain that these third parties will perform adequately. if these service providers do not perform their services adequately, our efforts to market and sell arcalyst for the treatment of caps will not be successful. risks related to the manufacture of our product candidates we have limited manufacturing capacity, which could inhibit our ability to successfully develop or commercialize our drugs. our manufacturing facility is likely to be inadequate to produce sufficient quantities of product for commercial sale. we intend to rely on our corporate collaborators, as well as contract manufacturers, to produce the large quantities of drug material needed for commercialization of our products. we rely entirely on third-party manufacturers for filling and finishing services. we will have to depend on these manufacturers to deliver material on a timely basis 23 and to comply with regulatory requirements. if we are unable to supply sufficient material on acceptable terms, or if we should encounter delays or difficulties in our relationships with our corporate collaborators or contract manufacturers, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially harmed. we must expand our own manufacturing capacity to support the planned growth of our clinical pipeline. moreover, we may expand our manufacturing capacity to support commercial production of active pharmaceutical ingredients, or api, for our product candidates. this will require substantial additional expenditures, and we will need to hire and train significant numbers of employees and managerial personnel to staff our facility. start-up costs can be large and scale-up entails significant risks related to process development and manufacturing yields. we may be unable to develop manufacturing facilities that are sufficient to produce drug material for clinical trials or commercial use. this may delay our clinical development plans and interfere with our efforts to commercialize our products. in addition, we may be unable to secure adequate filling and finishing services to support our products. as a result, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially harmed. we may be unable to obtain key raw materials and supplies for the manufacture of arcalyst (rilonacept) and our product candidates. in addition, we may face difficulties in developing or acquiring production technology and managerial personnel to manufacture sufficient quantities of our product candidates at reasonable costs and in compliance with applicable quality assurance and environmental regulations and governmental permitting requirements. if any of our clinical programs are discontinued, we may face costs related to the unused capacity at our manufacturing facilities. we have large-scale manufacturing operations in rensselaer, new york. we use our facilities to produce bulk product for clinical and preclinical candidates for ourselves and our collaborations. if our clinical candidates are discontinued, we will have to absorb one hundred percent of related overhead costs and inefficiencies. third-party supply failures, business interruptions, or natural disasters affecting our manufacturing facilities in rensselaer, new york could adversely affect our ability to supply our products. we manufacture all of our bulk drug materials for arcalyst and our product candidates at our manufacturing facilities in rensselaer, new york. we would be unable to supply our product requirements if we were to cease production due to regulatory requirements or action, business interruptions, labor shortages or disputes, contaminations, fire, natural disasters, or other problems at the facilities. certain raw materials necessary for manufacturing and formulation of arcalyst and our product candidates are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. in addition, we rely on certain third parties to perform filling, finishing, distribution, and other services related to the manufacture of our products. we would be unable to obtain these raw materials or services for an indeterminate period of time if any of these third-parties were to cease or interrupt production or otherwise fail to supply these materials, products, or services to us for any reason, including due to regulatory requirements or action, adverse financial developments at or affecting the supplier, failure by the supplier to comply with gmps, business interruptions, or labor shortages or disputes. this, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our ability to manufacture or supply arcalyst or our product candidates for use in clinical trials, which could materially and adversely affect our business and future prospects. also, certain of the raw materials required in the manufacturing and the formulation of our clinical candidates may be derived from biological sources, including mammalian tissues, bovine serum, and human serum albumin. there are certain european regulatory restrictions on using these biological source materials. if we are required to substitute for these sources to comply with european regulatory requirements, our clinical development activities may be delayed or interrupted. risks related to commercialization of products if we are unable to establish sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities, or enter into agreements with third parties to do so, we will be unable to successfully market and sell future products. we are marketing and selling arcalyst for the treatment of caps ourselves in the united states, primarily through third party service providers. we have no sales or distribution personnel in the united states and have only a small staff with commercial capabilities. we currently have no sales, marketing, commercial, or distribution 24 capabilities outside the united states. if we are unable to obtain those capabilities, either by developing our own organizations or entering into agreements with service providers, even if our current or future product candidates receive marketing approval, we will not be able to successfully sell those products. in that event, we will not be able to generate significant revenue, even if our product candidates are approved. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to hire the qualified sales and marketing personnel we need or that we will be able to enter into marketing or distribution agreements with third-party providers on acceptable terms, if at all. under the terms of our collaboration agreement with sanofi-aventis, we will rely on sanofi-aventis for sales, marketing, and distribution of aflibercept in cancer indications, should it be approved in the future by regulatory authorities for marketing. we will have to rely on a third party or devote significant resources to develop our own sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities for our other product candidates, including vegf trap-eye in the united states, and we may be unsuccessful in developing our own sales, marketing, and distribution organization. there may be too few patients with caps to profitably commercialize arcalyst (rilonacept) in this indication. our only approved product is arcalyst for the treatment of caps, a group of rare, inherited auto-inflammatory diseases. these rare diseases affect a very small group of people. the incidence of caps has been reported to be approximately 1 in 1,000,000 people in the united states. although the incidence rate of caps in europe has not been reported, it is known to be a rare set of diseases. in october 2009 we received european marketing authorization for rilonacept for caps. in 2009, novartis received regulatory approval in the u.s. and europe for its il-1 antibody product for the treatment of caps. given the very rare nature of the disease and the competition from novartis' il-1 antibody product, we may be unable to profitably commercialize arcalyst in this indication. even if our product candidates are approved for marketing, their commercial success is highly uncertain because our competitors have received approval for products with a similar mechanism of action, and competitors may get to the marketplace with better or lower cost drugs. there is substantial competition in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries from pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and chemical companies. many of our competitors have substantially greater research, preclinical and clinical product development and manufacturing capabilities, and financial, marketing, and human resources than we do. our smaller competitors may also enhance their competitive position if they acquire or discover patentable inventions, form collaborative arrangements, or merge with large pharmaceutical companies. even if we achieve product commercialization, our competitors have achieved, and may continue to achieve, product commercialization before our products are approved for marketing and sale. genentech has an approved vegf antagonist, avastin, on the market for treating certain cancers and many different pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are working to develop competing vegf antagonists, including novartis, amgen, imclone/eli lilly, pfizer, astrazeneca, and glaxosmithkline. many of these molecules are farther along in development than aflibercept and may offer competitive advantages over our molecule. each of pfizer and onyx, (together with its partner bayer healthcare) has received approval from the fda to market and sell an oral medication that targets tumor cell growth and new vasculature formation that fuels the growth of tumors. the marketing approvals for genentech's vegf antagonist, avastin, and their extensive, ongoing clinical development plan for avastin in other cancer indications, make it more difficult for us to enroll patients in clinical trials to support aflibercept and to obtain regulatory approval of aflibercept in these cancer settings. this may delay or impair our ability to successfully develop and commercialize aflibercept. in addition, even if aflibercept is ever approved for sale for the treatment of certain cancers, it will be difficult for our drug to compete against avastin (genentech) and the fda approved kinase inhibitors, because doctors and patients will have significant experience using these medicines. in addition, an oral medication may be considerably less expensive for patients than a biologic medication, providing a competitive advantage to companies that market such products. the market for eye disease products is also very competitive. novartis and genentech are collaborating on the commercialization and further development of a vegf antibody fragment, lucentis, for the treatment of age-related macular degeneration (wet amd), dme, and other eye indications. lucentis (genentech) was approved by the fda in june 2006 for the treatment of wet amd. many other companies are working on the development of product candidates for the potential treatment of wet amd and dme that act by blocking vegf and vegf receptors, 25 and through the use of small interfering ribonucleic acids (sirnas) that modulate gene expression. in addition, ophthalmologists are using off-label, with success for the treatment of wet amd, a third-party repackaged version of genentech's approved vegf antagonist, avastin. the national eye institute is conducting a phase 3 trial comparing lucentis (genentech) to avastin (genentech) in the treatment of wet amd. the marketing approval of lucentis (genentech) and the potential off-label use of avastin (genentech) make it more difficult for us to enroll patients in our clinical trials and successfully develop vegf trap-eye. even if vegf trap-eye is ever approved for sale for the treatment of eye diseases, it may be difficult for our drug to compete against lucentis (genentech), because doctors and patients will have significant experience using this medicine. moreover, the relatively low cost of therapy with avastin (genentech) in patients with wet amd presents a further competitive challenge in this indication. while we believe that aflibercept would not be well tolerated if administered directly to the eye, if aflibercept is ever approved for the treatment of certain cancers, there is a risk that third parties will attempt to repackage aflibercept for use and sale for the treatment of wet amd and other diseases of the eye, which would present a potential low-cost competitive threat to the vegf trap-eye if it is ever approved for sale. the availability of highly effective fda approved tnf-antagonists such as enbrel (amgen and wyeth), remicade (centocor), humira (adalimumab), marketed by abbott, and simponi tm (golimumab), marketed by centocor, and the il-1 receptor antagonist kineret (biovitrum), and other marketed therapies makes it more difficult to successfully develop and commercialize rilonacept in other indications. this is one of the reasons we discontinued the development of rilonacept in adult rheumatoid arthritis. in addition, even if rilonacept is ever approved for sale in indications where tnf-antagonists are approved, it will be difficult for our drug to compete against these fda approved tnf-antagonists because doctors and patients will have significant experience using these effective medicines. moreover, in such indications these approved therapeutics may offer competitive advantages over rilonacept, such as requiring fewer injections. there are both small molecules and antibodies in development by other companies that are designed to block the synthesis of interleukin-1 or inhibit the signaling of interleukin-1. for example, eli lilly, xoma, and novartis are each developing antibodies to interleukin-1 and amgen is developing an antibody to the interleukin-1 receptor. novartis received marketing approval for its il-1 antibody for the treatment of caps from the fda in june 2009 and from the european medicines agency in october 2009. novartis is also developing this il-1 antibody in gout and other inflammatory diseases. novartis' il-1 antibody and these other drug candidates could offer competitive advantages over arcalyst. for example, novartis' il-1 antibody is dosed once every eight weeks compared to the once-weekly dosing regimen for arcalyst. the successful development and/or commercialization of these competing molecules could impair our ability to successfully commercialize arcalyst. we have plans to develop rilonacept for the treatment of certain gout indications. in october 2009, novartis announced positive phase 2 results showing that canakinumab is more effective than an injectable corticosteroid at reducing pain and preventing recurrent attacks or flares in patients with hard-to-treat gout. novartis' il-1 antibody is dosed less frequently for the treatment of caps and may be perceived as offering competitive advantages over rilonacept in gout by some physicians, which would make it difficult for us to successfully commercialize rilonacept in that disease. currently, inexpensive, oral therapies such as analgesics and other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are used as the standard of care to treat the symptoms of these gout diseases. these established, inexpensive, orally delivered drugs may make it difficult for us to successfully commercialize rilonacept in these diseases. the successful commercialization of arcalyst (rilonacept) and our product candidates will depend on obtaining coverage and reimbursement for use of these products from third-party payers and these payers may not agree to cover or reimburse for use of our products. our product candidates, if commercialized, may be significantly more expensive than traditional drug treatments. for example, we have announced plans to initiate a phase 3 program studying the use of rilonacept for the treatment of certain gout indications. patients suffering from these gout indications are currently treated with inexpensive therapies, including non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. these existing treatment options are likely to be considerably less expensive and may be preferable to a biologic medication for some patients. our future revenues and profitability will be adversely affected if united states and foreign governmental, private third-party insurers and payers, and other third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid, do not agree to defray 26 or reimburse the cost of our products to the patients. if these entities refuse to provide coverage and reimbursement with respect to our products or provide an insufficient level of coverage and reimbursement, our products may be too costly for many patients to afford them, and physicians may not prescribe them. many third-party payers cover only selected drugs, making drugs that are not preferred by such payers more expensive for patients, and require prior authorization or failure on another type of treatment before covering a particular drug. payers may especially impose these obstacles to coverage on higher-priced drugs, as our product candidates are likely to be. we market and sell arcalyst in the united states for the treatment of a group of rare genetic disorders called caps. we recently received european union marketing authorization for rilonacept for the treatment of caps. there may be too few patients with caps to profitably commercialize arcalyst. physicians may not prescribe arcalyst, and caps patients may not be able to afford arcalyst, if third party payers do not agree to reimburse the cost of arcalyst therapy and this would adversely affect our ability to commercialize arcalyst profitably. in addition to potential restrictions on coverage, the amount of reimbursement for our products may also reduce our profitability. in the united states, there have been, and we expect will continue to be, actions and proposals to control and reduce healthcare costs. government and other third-party payers are challenging the prices charged for healthcare products and increasingly limiting, and attempting to limit, both coverage and level of reimbursement for prescription drugs. since arcalyst and our product candidates in clinical development will likely be too expensive for most patients to afford without health insurance coverage, if our products are unable to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement by third-party payers our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates may be adversely impacted. any limitation on the use of our products or any decrease in the price of our products will have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve profitability. in certain foreign countries, pricing, coverage, and level of reimbursement of prescription drugs are subject to governmental control, and we may be unable to negotiate coverage, pricing, and reimbursement on terms that are favorable to us. in some foreign countries, the proposed pricing for a drug must be approved before it may be lawfully marketed. the requirements governing drug pricing vary widely from country to country. for example, the european union provides options for its member states to restrict the range of medicinal products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices of medicinal products for human use. a member state may approve a specific price for the medicinal product or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the medicinal product on the market. our results of operations may suffer if we are unable to market our products in foreign countries or if coverage and reimbursement for our products in foreign countries is limited. risk related to employees we are dependent on our key personnel and if we cannot recruit and retain leaders in our research, development, manufacturing, and commercial organizations, our business will be harmed. we are highly dependent on certain of our executive officers. if we are not able to retain any of these persons or our chairman, our business may suffer. in particular, we depend on the services of p. roy vagelos, m.d., the chairman of our board of directors, leonard schleifer, m.d., ph.d., our president and chief executive officer, george d. yancopoulos, m.d., ph.d., our executive vice president, chief scientific officer and president, regeneron research laboratories, and neil stahl, ph.d., our senior vice president, research and development sciences. there is intense competition in the biotechnology industry for qualified scientists and managerial personnel in the development, manufacture, and commercialization of drugs. we may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for developing our business. 27 risks related to our common stock our stock price is extremely volatile. there has been significant volatility in our stock price and generally in the market prices of biotechnology companies' securities. various factors and events may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. these factors include, by way of example: progress, delays, or adverse results in clinical trials; announcement of technological innovations or product candidates by us or competitors; fluctuations in our operating results; third party claims that our products or technologies infringe their patents; public concern as to the safety or effectiveness of arcalyst (rilonacept) or any of our product candidates; developments in our relationship with collaborative partners; developments in the biotechnology industry or in government regulation of healthcare; large sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors, or significant shareholders; arrivals and departures of key personnel; and general market conditions. the trading price of our common stock has been, and could continue to be, subject to wide fluctuations in response to these and other factors, including the sale or attempted sale of a large amount of our common stock in the market. broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the market price of our common stock. future sales of our common stock by our significant shareholders or us may depress our stock price and impair our ability to raise funds in new share offerings. a small number of our shareholders beneficially own a substantial amount of our common stock. as of december 31, 2009, our four largest shareholders plus leonard schleifer, m.d, ph.d., our chief executive officer, beneficially owned 41.6% of our outstanding shares of common stock, assuming, in the case of our chief executive officer, the conversion of his class a stock into common stock and the exercise of all options held by him which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2009. as of december 31, 2009, sanofi-aventis beneficially owned 14,799,552 shares of common stock, representing approximately 18.8% of the shares of common stock then outstanding. under our investor agreement, as amended, with sanofi-aventis, sanofi-aventis may not sell these shares until december 20, 2017 except under limited circumstances and subject to earlier termination of these restrictions upon the occurrence of certain events. notwithstanding these restrictions, if sanofi-aventis, or our other significant shareholders or we, sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur exists, the market price of our common stock could fall. sales of common stock by our significant shareholders, including sanofi-aventis, also might make it more difficult for us to raise funds by selling equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. our existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval. holders of class a stock, who are generally the shareholders who purchased their stock from us before our initial public offering, are entitled to ten votes per share, while holders of common stock are entitled to one vote per share. as of december 31, 2009, holders of class a stock held 22.2% of the combined voting power of all shares of common stock and class a stock then outstanding, including any voting power associated with any shares of common stock beneficially owned by such class a stock holders. these shareholders, if acting together, would be in a position to significantly influence the election of our directors and to effect or prevent certain corporate 28 transactions that require majority or supermajority approval of the combined classes, including mergers and other business combinations. this may result in us taking corporate actions that you may not consider to be in your best interest and may affect the price of our common stock. as of december 31, 2009: our current executive officers and directors beneficially owned 14.0% of our outstanding shares of common stock, assuming conversion of their class a stock into common stock and the exercise of all options held by such persons which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2009, and 28.5% of the combined voting power of our outstanding shares of common stock and class a stock, assuming the exercise of all options held by such persons which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2009; and our four largest shareholders plus leonard s. schleifer, m.d., ph.d. our chief executive officer, beneficially owned 41.6% of our outstanding shares of common stock, assuming, in the case of our chief executive officer, the conversion of his class a stock into common stock and the exercise of all options held by him which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2009. in addition, these five shareholders held 48.5% of the combined voting power of our outstanding shares of common stock and class a stock, assuming the exercise of all options held by our chief executive officer which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2009. pursuant to an investor agreement, as amended, sanofi-aventis has agreed to vote its shares, at sanofi-aventis' election, either as recommended by our board of directors or proportionally with the votes cast by our other shareholders, except with respect to certain change of control transactions, liquidation or dissolution, stock issuances equal to or exceeding 10% of the then outstanding shares or voting rights of common stock and class a stock, and new equity compensation plans or amendments if not materially consistent with our historical equity compensation practices. the anti-takeover effects of provisions of our charter, by-laws, and of new york corporate law and the contractual standstill provisions in our investor agreement with sanofi-aventis, could deter, delay, or prevent an acquisition or other change in control of us and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our by-laws, and the new york business corporation law contain various provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company or our management that shareholders may consider favorable or beneficial. some of these provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other shareholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. these provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. these provisions include: authorization to issue blank check preferred stock, which is preferred stock that can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior shareholder approval, with rights senior to those of our common shareholders; a staggered board of directors, so that it would take three successive annual meetings to replace all of our directors; a requirement that removal of directors may only be effected for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of at least eighty percent (80%) of the outstanding shares entitled to vote for directors, as well as a requirement that any vacancy on the board of directors may be filled only by the remaining directors; any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of shareholders may be taken without a meeting, only if, prior to such action, all of our shareholders consent, the effect of which is to require that shareholder action may only be taken at a duly convened meeting; any shareholder seeking to bring business before an annual meeting of shareholders must provide timely notice of this intention in writing and meet various other requirements; and under the new york business corporation law, in addition to certain restrictions which may apply to business combinations involving the company and an interested shareholder , a plan of merger or consolidation of the company must be approved by two-thirds of the votes of all outstanding shares entitled to vote thereon. see the risk factor immediately above captioned our existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval. 29 until the later of the fifth anniversaries of the expiration or earlier termination of our antibody collaboration agreements with sanofi-aventis or our aflibercept collaboration with sanofi-aventis, sanofi-aventis will be bound by certain standstill provisions, which contractually prohibit sanofi-aventis from acquiring more than certain specified percentages of our class a stock and common stock (taken together) or otherwise seeking to obtain control of the company. in addition, we have a change in control severance plan and our chief executive officer has an employment agreement that provides severance benefits in the event our officers are terminated as a result of a change in control of the company. many of our stock options issued under our amended and restated 2000 long-term incentive plan may become fully vested in connection with a change in control of our company, as defined in the plan. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our earnings and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to changes in interest rates principally in connection with our investment of excess cash in direct obligations of the u.s. government and its agencies, other debt securities guaranteed by the u.s. government, and money market funds that invest in u.s. government securities and, to a lesser extent, investment grade debt securities issued by corporations, bank deposits, and asset-backed securities. we do not believe we are materially exposed to changes in interest rates. under our current policies, we do not use interest rate derivative instruments to manage exposure to interest rate changes. we estimate that a one percent unfavorable change in interest rates would have resulted in approximately a $0.6 million and $1.9 million decrease in the fair value of our investment portfolio at december 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. credit quality risk we have an investment policy that includes guidelines on acceptable investment securities, minimum credit quality, maturity parameters, and concentration and diversification. nonetheless, deterioration of the credit quality of an investment security subsequent to purchase may subject us to the risk of not being able to recover the full principal value of the security. we have recognized other-than-temporary impairment charges related to certain marketable securities of $0.1 million, $2.5 million, and $5.9 million in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. the current economic environment and the deterioration in the credit quality of issuers of securities that we hold increase the risk of potential declines in the current market value of marketable securities in our investment portfolio. such declines could result in charges against income in future periods for other-than-temporary impairments and the amounts could be material.risk factors risks related to commercialization of products even if our product candidates are approved for marketing, their commercial success is highly uncertain because our competitors have received approval for and may be marketing products with a similar mechanism of action, or may enter the marketplace with better or lower cost drugs . ). our competitors include genentech/roche, novartis, pfizer inc., bayer healthcare, onyx pharmaceuticals, inc., eli lilly and company, abbott laboratories, sanofi-aventis, merck &amp; co., inc., amgen inc., astraz eneca, bristolmyerssquibb, johnson and johnson, glaxosmithkline, and others. many of our competitors have substantially greater research, preclinical, and clinical product development and manufacturing capabilities, and financial, marketing, and human resources than we do. competition from smaller competitors may also be or become more significant if those competitors acquire or discover patentable inventions, form collaborative arrangements, or merge with large pharmaceutical companies. even if we are able to commercialize additional product candidates, one or more of our competitors may have brought a competitive product to market earlier than us or may have obtained 11 or obtain patent protection that dominates or adversely affects our activities or products. our ability to compete will depend, to a great extent, on how fast we can develop safe and effective product candidates, complete clinical testing and approval processes, and supply commercial quantities of the product to the market. competition among product candidates approved for sale will also be based on efficacy, safety, reliability, availability, price, patent position, and other factors. arcalyst . in 2009, novartis received regulatory approval in the u.s. and europe for canakinumab, a fully human anti-interleukin-il1 antibody, for the treatment of caps. in january 2011, novartis announced that it had submitted an application to the ema for approval of canakinumab in gout. novartis has also announced that it plans to submit to the fda in the first quarter of 2011 an application for approval of canakinumab in gout. canakinumab is also in development for atherosclerosis and a number of other inflammatory diseases. in addition, there are both small molecules and antibodies in development by other third parties that are designed to block the synthesis of il-1 or inhibit the signaling of il-1. for example, xoma ltd., in collaboration with servier, is developing an antibody to il-1, and both amgen and medimmune are developing antibodies to the il-1 receptor. these drug candidates could offer competitive advantages over arcalyst . the successful development and/or commercialization of these competing molecules could adversely affect sales of arcalyst for caps and delay or impair our ability to commercialize arcalyst for indications other than caps. vegf trap-eye. the market for eye disease products is also very competitive. novartis and genentech are collaborating on the commercialization and further development of a vegf antibody fragment (lucentis ) for the treatment of wet amd, dme, and other eye indications. lucentis was approved by the fda in june 2006 for the treatment of wet amd and in june 2010 for the treatment of macular edema following retinal vein occlusion (rvo). lucentis was approved by the european medicines agency (ema) for wet amd in january 2007 and for the treatment of dme in january 2011. many other companies are working on the development of product candidates for the potential treatment of wet amd and dme including those that act by blocking vegf and vegf receptors as well as use of small interfering ribonucleic acids (sirnas) that modulate gene expression. in addition, ophthalmologists are using off-label, with success for the treatment of wet amd, dme, and rvo, a third-party repackaged version of genentech's approved vegf antagonist, avastin (bevacizumab). the relatively low cost of therapy with avastin in patients with wet amd presents a significant competitive challenge in this indication. the national eye institute (nei) initiated a phase 3 trial to compare lucentis to avastin in the treat ment of wet amd. data from this nei study are expected to be published in 2011. avastin is also being evaluated in eye diseases in trials that have been initiated in the united kingdom, canada, brazil, mexico, germany, israel, and other areas. aflibercept. many companies are developing therapeutic molecules designed to block the actions of vegf specifically and angiogenesis in general. a variety of approaches have been employed, including antibodies to vegf, antibodies to the vegf receptor, small molecule antagonists to the vegf receptor tyrosine kinase, and other anti-angiogenesis strategies. many of these alternative approaches may offer competitive advantages to aflibercept in efficacy, side-effect profile, or method of delivery. additionally, some of these molecules are either already approved for marketing or are at a more advanced stage of development than our product candidate. in particular, genentech has an approved vegf antagonist, avastin , on the market for treating certain cancers and a number of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are working to develop competing vegf antagonists, including novartis, amgen, imclone llc/eli lilly, pfizer, astrazeneca, and glaxosmithkline. many of these molecules are further along in development than aflibercept and may offer competitive advantages over our molecule. pfizer, onyx (together with its partner bayer healthcare), and glaxosmithkline are selling and marketing oral medications that target tumor cell growth and new vasculature formation that fuels the growth of tumors. monoclonal antibodies. our early-stage clinical candidates in development are all fully human monoclonal antibodies which were generated using our velocimmune technology. our antibody generation technologies and early-stage clinical candidates face competition from many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies using various technologies. numerous other companies are developing therapeutic antibody products. companies such as pfizer, johnson &amp; johnson, astrazeneca, amgen, biogen idec, inc., novartis, genentech/roche, bristol-myers squib, abbott, and glaxosmithkline have generated therapeutic products that are currently in development or on the market that are derived from recombinant dna that comprise human antibody sequences. as noted above, astrazeneca and astellas have licensed our velocimmune technology as part of their internal antibody development programs. 12 we are aware of several pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies actively engaged in the research and development of antibody products against targets that are also the targets of our early-stage product candidates. for example, pfizer, johnson &amp; johnson, and abbott are developing antibody product candidates against ngf. genentech/roche is marketing an antibody against il-6r (tocilizumab) for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, and several other companies, including centocor ortho biotech, inc. and bristol-myers squibb, have antibodies against il-6 in clinical development for this disease. glaxosmithkline, in partnership with oncomed pharmaceuticals, inc., has a dll4 antibody in clinical development for the treatment of solid tumors. aerovance has two formulations of a biologic directed against il-4 in clinical development. amgen previously had an antibody against il-4r in clinical development for the t reatment of asthma. we believe that several companies, including amgen and pfizer, have development programs for antibodies against pcsk9. amgen, pfizer, and astrazeneca have development programs underway for antibodies against ang2. other areas. many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are attempting to discover new therapeutics for indications in which we invest substantial time and resources. in these and related areas, intellectual property rights have been sought and certain rights have been granted to competitors and potential competitors of ours, and we may be at a substantial competitive disadvantage in such areas as a result of, among other things, our lack of experience, trained personnel, and expertise. a number of corporate and academic competitors are involved in the discovery and development of novel therapeutics that are the focus of other research or development programs we are now conducting. these competitors include amgen and genentech, as well as many others. many firms and entities are engaged in research and development in the areas of cytokines, interleukins, angiogenesis, and muscle conditions. some of these competitors are currently conducting advanced preclinical and clinical research programs in these areas. these and other competitors may have established substantial intellectual property and other competitive advantages. if any of these or other competitors announces a successful clinical study involving a product that may be competitive with one of our product candidates or the grant of marketing approval by a regulatory agency for a competitive product, such developments may have an adverse effect on our operations or future prospects. we also compete with academic institutions, governmental agencies, and other public or private research organizations, which conduct research, seek patent protection, and establish collaborative arrangements for the development and marketing of products that would provide royalties or other consideration for use of their technology. these institutions are becoming more active in seeking patent protection and licensing arrangements to collect royalties or other consideration for use of the technology they have developed. products developed in this manner may compete directly with products we develop. we also compete with others in acquiring technology from these institutions, agencies, and organizations. patents, trademarks, and trade secrets our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain patents, maintain trade secret protection, and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties (see item 1a. risk factors risks related to intellectual property we may be restricted in our development and/or commercialization activities by, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed, third party patents or other proprietary rights. ). our policy is to file patent applications to protect technology, inventions, and improvements that we consider important to our business and operations. as of december 31, 2010, we held an ownership interest in a total of approximately 170 issued patents in the united states and approximately 590 issued patents in foreign countries with respect to our products and technologies. in addition, we hold an ownership interest in hundreds of patent applications in the united states and foreign countries. our patent portfolio includes granted patents and pending patent applications covering our velocisuite technologies, including our velocimmune mouse platform which produces fully human monoclonal antibodies. our issued patents covering these technologies generally expire between 2020 and 2030. however, we continue to file patent applications directed to improvements to these technology platforms. our patent portfolio also includes issued patents and pending applications relating to our marketed product, arcalyst , and our product candidates in clinical development. these patents cover the proteins and dna encoding the proteins, manufacturing patents, method of use patents, and pharmaceutical compositions, as well as 13 various methods of using the products. for each of arcalyst and our late-stage product candidates, aflibercept and vegf trap-eye, these patents generally expire between 2020 and 2028. however, the projected patent terms may be subject to extension based on potential patent term extensions in countries where such extensions are available. we also are the nonexclusive licensee of a number of additional patents and patent applications. in july 2008 we entered into an amended and restated non-exclusive license agreement with cellectis s.a. pursuant to which we licensed certain patents and patent applications relating to a process for the specific replacement of a copy of a gene in the receiver genome by homologous recombination. pursuant to this agreement, we agreed to pay cellectis a low, single-digit royalty based on any future revenue received by us from any future licenses or sales of our velocigene or velocimmune products or services. no royalties are payable to cellectis on any revenue from commercial sales of antibodies from our velocimmune technology, including antibodies developed under our collaboration with sanofi-aventis. we also have non-exclusive license agreements with amgen and other organizations for patent rights related to arcalyst . in exchange for these licenses, we pay a mid-single digit royalty on net sales of arca lyst . patent law relating to the patentability and scope of claims in the biotechnology field is evolving and our patent rights are subject to this additional uncertainty. the degree of patent protection that will be afforded to our products in the united states and other important commercial markets is uncertain and is dependent upon the scope of protection decided upon by the patent offices, courts, and governments in these countries. there is no certainty that our existing patents or others, if obtained, will provide us protection from competition or provide commercial benefit. others may independently develop similar products or processes to those developed by us, duplicate any of our products or processes or, if patents are issued to us, design around any products and processes covered by our patents. we expect to continue, when appropriate, to file product and process applications with respect to our inventions. however, we may not file any such applications or, if filed, the patents may not be issued. patents issued to or licensed by us may be infringed by the products or processes of others. defense and enforcement of our intellectual property rights is expensive and time consuming, even if the outcome is favorable to us. it is possible that patents issued or licensed to us will be successfully challenged, that a court may find that we are infringing validly issued patents of third parties, or that we may have to alter or discontinue the development of our products or pay licensing fees to take into account patent rights of third parties (see item 1a. risk factors-risks related to intellectual property we may be restricted in our development, manufacturing, and/or commercialization rights by, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed, third party patents or other proprietary rights ) . government regulation regulation by government authorities in the united states and foreign countries is a significant factor in the research, development, manufacture, and marketing of arcalyst and our product candidates (see item 1a. risk factors regulatory and litigation risks if we do not obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, we will not be able to market or sell them. ) . all of our product candidates will require regulatory approval before they can be commercialized. in particular, human therapeutic products are subject to rigorous preclinical and clinical trials and other pre-market app roval requirements by the fda and foreign authorities. many aspects of the structure and substance of the fda and foreign pharmaceutical regulatory practices have been reformed during recent years, and continued reform is under consideration in a number of jurisdictions. the ultimate outcome and impact of such reforms and potential reforms cannot be predicted. the activities required before a product candidate may be marketed in the united states begin with preclinical tests. preclinical tests include laboratory evaluations and animal studies to assess the potential safety and efficacy of the product candidate and its formulations. the results of these studies must be submitted to the fda as part of an ind, which must be reviewed by the fda before proposed clinical testing can begin. typically, clinical testing involves a three-phase process. in phase 1, trials are conducted with a small number of subjects to determine the early safety profile of the product candidate. in phase 2, clinical trials are conducted with subjects afflicted with a specific disease or disorder to provide enough data to evaluate the preliminary safety, tolerability, and efficacy of different potential doses of the product candidate. in phase 3, large-scale clinical trials are conducted with patients afflicted with the specific disease or disorder in order to provide enough data to understand the efficacy and safety profile of the product candidate, as required by the fda. the results of the preclinical and clinical testing of a biologic product 14 candidate are then submitted to the fda in the form of a bla for evaluation to determine whether the product candidate may be approved for commercial sale. in responding to a bla, the fda may grant marketing approval, request additional information, or deny the application. any approval required by the fda for any of our product candidates may not be obtained on a timely basis, or at all. the designation of a clinical trial as being of a particular phase is not necessarily indicative that such a trial will be sufficient to satisfy the parameters of a particular phase, and a clinical trial may contain elements of more than one phase notwithstanding the designation of the trial as being of a particular phase. the results of preclinical studies or early stage clinical trials may not predict long-term safety or efficacy of our compounds when they are tested or used more broadly in humans. approval of a product candidate by comparable regulatory authorities in foreign countries is generally required prior to commencement of marketing of the product in those countries. the approval procedure varies among countries and may involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain such approval may differ from that required for fda approval. various federal, state, and foreign statutes and regulations also govern or influence the research, manufacture, safety, labeling, storage, record keeping, marketing, transport, and other aspects of pharmaceutical product candidates. the lengthy process of seeking these approvals and the compliance with applicable statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial resources. any failure by us or our collaborators or licensees to obtain, or any delay in obtaining, regulatory approvals could adversely affect the manufacturing or marketing of our products and our ability to receive product or royalty revenue. in addition to the foregoing, our present and future business will be subject to regulation under the united states atomic energy act, the clean air act, the clean water act, the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act, the national environmental policy act, the toxic substances control act, the resource conservation and recovery act, national restrictions, and other current and potential future local, state, federal, and foreign regulations. business segments we manage our business as one segment which includes all activities related to the discovery of pharmaceutical products for the treatment of serious medical conditions and the development and commercialization of these discoveries. this segment also includes revenues and expenses related to (i) research and development activities conducted under our collaboration agreements with third parties and our grant from the nih, (ii) arcalyst product sales for the treatment of caps, (iii) licensing agreements to utilize our velocimmune technology, and (iv) t he supply of specified, ordered research materials using our velocigen e technology platform. employees as of december 31, 2010, we had 1,395 full-time employees, of whom 276 held a ph.d. and/or m.d., or pharmd degree. we believe that we have been successful in attracting skilled and experienced personnel in a highly competitive environment; however, competition for these personnel is intense. none of our personnel are covered by collective bargaining agreements and our management considers its relations with our employees to be good. available information we make available free of charge on or through our internet website (http://www.regeneron.com) our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the securities and exchange commission (sec). item 1a. risk factors we operate in an environment that involves a number of significant risks and uncertainties. we caution you to read the following risk factors, which have affected, and/or in the future could affect, our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. the risks described below include forward-looking statements, and actual events 15 and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. furthermore, additional risks and uncertainties are described under other captions in this report and should be considered by our investors. risks related to our financial results and need for additional financing we have had a history of operating losses and we may never achieve profitability. if we continue to incur operating losses, we may be unable to continue our operations. from inception on january 8, 1988 through december 31, 2010, we had a cumulative loss of $1.0 billion. if we continue to incur operating losses and fail to become a profitable company, we may be unable to continue our operations. in the absence of substantial revenue from the sale of products or other sources, the amount, timing, nature or source of which cannot be predicted, our losses will continue as we conduct our research and development activities. we may need additional funding in the future, which may not be available to us, and which may force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts. we will need to expend substantial resources for research and development, including costs associated with clinical testing of our product candidates, and to prepare for potential commercialization of our late-stage product candidates and, if one or more of those product candidates receive(s) regulatory approval, to fund the launch of the product(s). we believe our existing capital resources, including the $174.8 million net proceeds from our october 2010 public offering of common stock and the $165.0 million up-front payment we received in august 2010 pursuant to our amended velocimmune technology license agreement with astellas pharma inc., together with funding we are entitled to receive under our collaboration agreements, will enable us to meet operating needs through at least 2013; however, one or more of our collaboration agreements may terminate, our projected revenue may decrease, or our expenses may increase and that would lead to our capital being consumed significantly before such time. our expenses may increase for many reasons, including expenses in connection with the potential commercial launch of our products, expenses related to new clinical trials testing arcalyst or vegf trap-eye, and expenses related to the potential requirement for us to fund 20% of phase 3 clinical trial costs for any of our antibody product candidates pursuant to the terms of our collaboration with sanofi-aventis. we may require additional financing in the future and we may not be able to raise such additional funds. if we are able to obtain additional financing through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, such sales may be dilutive to our shareholders. debt financing arrangements may require us to pledge certain assets or enter into covenants that would restrict our business activities or our ability to incur further indebtedness and may contain other terms that are not favorable to our shareholders. in october 2010, we filed a shelf registration statement on form s-3 registering the sale, in one or more offerings, of an indeterminate amount of equity or debt securities, together or separately. our october 2010 public offering of approximately 6.3 million shares of common stock was completed under this shelf registration statement; however, there is no assurance that we will be able to complete any additional offerings of securities. should we require and be unable to raise sufficient funds to complete the development of our product candidates and also to successfully commercialize our late-stage product candidates if they obtain regulatory approval, we may face delay, reduction or elimination of our research and development or preclinical or clinical programs, and even if regulatory approval is obtained for such product candidates, they may never be successfully launched or become profitable, in which case our business, financial condition, or results of operations may be materially harmed. the value of our investment portfolio, which includes cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, is influenced by varying economic and market conditions. a decrease in the value of an asset in our investment portfolio or a default by the issuer may result in our inability to recover the principal we invested and/or a recognition of a loss charged against income. as of december 31, 2010, cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities totaled $626.9 million (including $7.5 million of restricted cash and marketable securities) and represented 58% of our total assets. we have invested our excess cash primarily in direct obligations of the u.s. government and its agencies, other debt securities guaranteed by the u.s. government, and money market funds that invest in u.s. government securities. we consider assets 16 classified as marketable securities to be available-for-sale, as defined by fasb authoritative guidance. marketable securities totaled $506.8 million at december 31, 2010, are carried at fair value, and the unrealized gains and losses are included in other accumulated comprehensive income (loss) as a separate component of stockholders' equity. if the decline in the value of a security in our investment portfolio is deemed to be other-than-temporary, we write down the security to its current fair value and recognize a loss which may be fully charged against income. for example, we recognized other-than-temporary impairment charges related to certain marketable securities of $2.5 million, $0.1 million, and $0.1 million in 2008, 2009, and 2010, respectively. the current economic environment and the continued volatility of securities markets increase the risk that we may not recover the principal we invested and/or there may be further declines in the market value of securities in our investment portfolio. as a result, we may incur additional charges against income in future periods for other-than-temporary impairments or realized losses upon a security's sale or maturity, and such amounts may be material. risks related to arcalyst and the development of our product candidates successful development of any of our product candidates is highly uncertain. only a small minority of all research and development programs ultimately result in commercially successful drugs. even if clinical trials demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of any of our product candidates for a specific disease and the necessary regulatory approvals are obtained, the commercial success of any of our product candidates will depend upon their acceptance by patients, the medical community, and third-party payers and on our partners' ability to successfully manufacture and commercialize our product candidates. our product candidates are delivered either by intravenous infusion or by intravitreal or subcutaneous injections, which are generally less well received by patients than tablet or capsule delivery. if our products are not successfully commercialized, we will not be able to recover the significant investment we have made in developing such products and our business would be sever ely harmed. we are testing aflibercept, vegf trap-eye, and arcalyst in a number of late-stage clinical trials. clinical trials may not demonstrate statistically sufficient effectiveness and safety to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for these product candidates. in a number of instances, we have terminated the development of product candidates due to a lack of or only modest effectiveness. aflibercept is in phase 3 clinical trials in combination with standard chemotherapy regimens for the treatment of 2 nd -line metastatic colorectal cancer, 1 st -line androgen independent prostate cancer, and 2 nd -line metastatic non-small cell lung cancer. aflibercept may not demonstrate the required safety or efficacy to support an application for approval in any of these indications. we do not have proof of concept data from early-stage, double-blind, controlled clinical trials that aflibercept will be safe or effective in any of these cancer settings. in march 2010, genentech, inc. announced that a phase 3 trial of its vegf antagonist, avastin , in combination with chemotherapy in men with prostate cancer, did not meet its primary endpoint. this trial had a very similar design to our ongoing phase 3 trial of aflibercept in prostate cancer. we are testing vegf trap-eye in phase 3 trials for the treatment of wet amd and the treatment of crvo. although we reported positive phase 3 trial results with vegf trap-eye in wet amd after one year of treatment, the trial will continue for an additional year and there is a risk that the results from the second year of the study could differ from the previously reported results, and such difference could delay or preclude regulatory approval. we also reported positive results in the first of two phase 3 trials in the treatment of crvo. the trial is continuing and there is a risk that the final results could differ from the previously reported results, and such final results could delay or preclude regulatory approval. there is also a risk that the results of the second phase 3 trial in crvo may demonstrate different results, and such results could delay or preclude regulatory approval. a number of other potential new drugs and biologics which showed promising results in initial clinical trials subsequently failed to establish sufficient safety and efficacy data to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. arcalyst is in phase 3 clinical trials for the prevention of gout flares in patients initiating uric acid-lowering drug therapy. although we reported positive phase 3 data from one trial in patients with gout initiating uric acid-lowering drug therapy, there is a risk that the results of the other ongoing trials of arcalyst in patients initiating 17 uric acid-lowering drug therapy will differ from the previously reported phase 3 trial. a number of potential new drugs and biologics which showed promising results in initial clinical trials subsequently failed to establish sufficient safety and efficacy data to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. we are studying our antibody candidates in a wide variety of indications in early stage clinical trials. many of these trials are exploratory studies designed to evaluate the safety profile of these compounds and to identify what diseases and uses, if any, are best suited for these product candidates. these early stage product candidates may not demonstrate the requisite efficacy and/or safety profile to support continued development for some or all of the indications that are being, or are planned to be, studied. clinical trials required for our product candidates are expensive and time-consuming, and their outcome is highly uncertain. if any of our drug trials are delayed or yield unfavorable results, we will have to delay or may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates. we must conduct extensive testing of our product candidates before we can obtain regulatory approval to market and sell them. we need to conduct both preclinical animal testing and human clinical trials. conducting these trials is a lengthy, time-consuming, and expensive process. these tests and trials may not achieve favorable results for many reasons, including, among others, failure of the product candidate to demonstrate safety or efficacy, the development of serious or life-threatening adverse events (or side effects) caused by or connected with exposure to the product candidate, difficulty in enrolling and maintaining subjects in the clinical trial, lack of sufficient supplies of the product candidate or comparator drug, and the failure of clinical investigators, trial monitors, contractors, consultants, or trial subjects to comply with the trial p lan, protocol, or applicable regulations related to gcps. a clinical trial may fail because it did not include a sufficient number of patients to detect the endpoint being measured or reach statistical significance. a clinical trial may also fail because the dose(s) of the investigational drug included in the trial were either too low or too high to determine the optimal effect of the investigational drug in the disease setting. many of our clinical trials are conducted under the oversight of idmcs. these independent oversight bodies are made up of external experts who review the progress of ongoing clinical trials, including available safety and efficacy data, and make recommendations concerning a trial's continuation, modification, or termination based on interim, unblinded data. any of our ongoing clinical trials may be discontinued or amended in response to recommendations made by responsible idmcs based on their review of such interim trial results. for example, in september 2009, a phase 3 trial that was evaluating aflibercept as a 1 st -line treatment for metastic pancreatic cancer in combination with gemcitabine was discontinued at the recommendation of an idmc after a planned analysis of interim efficacy data determined that the trial would not meet its efficacy endpoint. the recommended termination of any of our ongoing late-stage clinical trials by an idmc could negatively impact the future development of our product candidate(s), and our business may be materially harmed. we will need to reevaluate any drug candidate that does not test favorably and either conduct new trials, which are expensive and time consuming, or abandon the drug development program. even if we obtain positive results from preclinical or clinical trials, we may not achieve the same success in future trials. many companies in the biopharmaceutical industry, including regeneron, have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, even after promising results have been obtained in earlier trials. the failure of clinical trials to demonstrate safety and effectiveness for the desired indication(s) could harm the development of our product candidate(s), and our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially harmed. serious complications or side effects have occurred, and may continue to occur, in connection with the use of our approved product and in clinical trials of some of our product candidates which could cause our regulatory approval to be revoked or otherwise negatively affected or lead to delay or discontinuation of development of our product candidates which could severely harm our business. during the conduct of clinical trials, patients report changes in their health, including illnesses, injuries, and discomforts, to their study doctor. often, it is not possible to determine whether or not the drug candidate being studied caused these conditions. various illnesses, injuries, and discomforts have been reported from time-to-time during clinical trials of our product candidates. it is possible that as we test our drug candidates in larger, longer, and more extensive clinical programs, illnesses, injuries, and discomforts that were observed in earlier trials, as well as conditions that did not occur or went undetected in smaller previous trials, will be reported by patients. many times, 18 side effects are only detectable after investigational drugs are tested in large scale, phase 3 clinical trials or, in some cases, after they are made available to patients after approval. if additional clinical experience indicates that any of our product candidates has many side effects or causes serious or life-threatening side effects, the development of the product candidate may fail or be delayed, which would severely harm our business. aflibercept is being studied for the potential treatment of certain types of cancer and our vegf trap-eye candidate is being studied in diseases of the eye. there are many potential safety concerns associated with significant blockade of vegf, that may limit our ability to successfully develop aflibercept and vegf trap-eye. these serious and potentially life-threatening risks, based on clinical and preclinical experience of vegf inhibitors, include bleeding, intestinal perforation, hypertension, proteinuria, congestive heart failure, heart attack, and stroke. in addition, patients given infusions of any protein, including vegf trap delivered through intravenous administration, may develop severe hypersensitivity reactions or infusion reactions. other vegf blockers have reported side effects that became evident only after large scale trials or after marketing approval when large numbers of patients were treated. there are risks inherent in the intravitreal administration of drugs like vegf trap-eye, which can cause injury to the eye and other complications. these and other complications or side effects could harm the development of aflibercept for the treatment of cancer or vegf trap-eye for the treatment of diseases of the eye. we have tested arcalyst in only a small number of patients. as more patients begin to use our product and as we test it in new disease settings, new risks and side effects associated with arcalyst may be discovered, and risks previously viewed as inconsequential could be determined to be significant. like cytokine antagonists such as kineret (anakinra), a registered trademark of biovitrum, enbrel (etanercept), a registered trademark of amgen and pfizer, and remicade (infliximab) a registered trademark of centocor, arcaly st affects the immune defense system of the body by blocking some of its functions. therefore, arcalyst may interfere with the body's ability to fight infections. treatment with kineret , a medication that works through the inhibition of il-1, has been associated with an increased risk of serious infections, and serious, life threatening infections have been reported in patients taking arcalyst . these or other complications or side effects could cause regulatory authorities to revoke approvals of arcalyst for the treatment of caps or deny the approval of arcalyst in gout or other disease settings. alter natively, we may be required to conduct additional clinical trials, make changes in the labeling of our product, or limit or abandon our efforts to develop arcalyst in new disease settings. any such side effects may also result in a reduction, or even the elimination, of sales of arcalyst in approved indications. we are studying regn475, a fully human monoclonal antibody to ngf, in a variety of pain indications, including osteoarthritis of the knee. in december 2010, the company was informed by the fda that a case confirmed as avascular necrosis of a joint was seen in another company's anti-ngf program. the fda believes this case, which follows previously-reported cases of joint replacements in patients on an anti-ngf drug candidate being developed by another pharmaceutical company, provides evidence to suggest a class-effect and has placed regn475 on clinical hold. there are currently no ongoing trials with regn475 that are either enrolling or treating patients. arcalyst and our product candidates in development are recombinant proteins that could cause an immune response, resulting in the creation of harmful or neutralizing antibodies against the therapeutic protein. in addition to the safety, efficacy, manufacturing, and regulatory hurdles faced by our product candidates, the administration of recombinant proteins frequently causes an immune response, resulting in the creation of antibodies against the therapeutic protein. the antibodies can have no effect or can totally neutralize the effectiveness of the protein, or require that higher doses be used to obtain a therapeutic effect. in some cases, the antibody can cross react with the patient's own proteins, resulting in an auto-immune type disease. whether antibodies will be created can often not be predicted from preclinical or clinical experiments, and their detection or appearance is often delayed, so that there can be no assurance that neutralizing antibodies will not be detected at a later date, in some cases even after pivotal clinical tri als have been completed. antibodies directed against the receptor domains of arcalyst were detected in patients with caps after treatment with arcalyst . nineteen of 55 subjects (35%) who received arcalyst for at least 6 weeks tested positive for treatment-emerging binding antibodies on at least one occasion. to date, no side effects related to antibodies were observed in these subjects and there were no observed effects on drug efficacy or drug levels. it is possible that as we continue to test aflibercept and vegf trap-eye with more sensitive assays in different patient populations and possibly larger clinical trials, we will find that subjects given aflibercept and vegf trap-eye develop antibodies to these product candidates, and may also experience side effects related to the antibodies, which could adver sely impact the development of such candidates. 19 we may be unable to formulate or manufacture our product candidates in a way that is suitable for clinical or commercial use. changes in product formulations and manufacturing processes may be required as product candidates progress in clinical development and are ultimately commercialized. if we are unable to develop suitable product formulations or manufacturing processes to support large scale clinical testing of our product candidates, including our antibody candidates, we may be unable to supply necessary materials for our clinical trials, which would delay the development of our product candidates. similarly, if we are unable to supply sufficient quantities of our product or develop product formulations suitable for commercial use, we will not be able to successfully commercialize our product candidates. risks related to intellectual property if we cannot protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets or our patents are insufficient to protect our proprietary rights, our business and competitive position will be harmed. our business requires using sensitive and proprietary technology and other information that we protect as trade secrets. we seek to prevent improper disclosure of these trade secrets through confidentiality agreements. if our trade secrets are improperly exposed, either by our own employees or our collaborators, it would help our competitors and adversely affect our business. we will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our rights are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. the patent position of biotechnology companies involves complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, enforceability cannot be predicted with certainty. our patents may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented. patent applications filed outside the united states may be challenged by third parties who file an opposition. such opposition proceedings are increasingly common in the european union and are costly to defend. we have pending patent applications in the european patent office and it is likely that we will need to defend patent applications from third party challengers from time to time in the future. our patent rights may not provide us with a proprietary position or competitive advantages against competitors. furthermore, even if the outcome is favorable to us, the enforcement of our intellectual property rights can be extremely expensive and time consuming. we may be restricted in our development, manufacturing, and/or commercialization activities by, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed, third party patents or other proprietary rights. our commercial success depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of third parties. other parties may allege that they have blocking patents to our products in clinical development, either because they claim to hold proprietary rights to the composition of a product or the way it is manufactured or used. moreover, other parties may allege that they have blocking patents to antibody products made using our velocimmune technology, either because of the way the antibodies are discovered or produced or because of a proprietary position covering an ant ibody or the antibody's target. we are aware of patents and pending applications owned by genentech that claim certain chimeric vegf receptors. we do not believe that aflibercept or vegf trap-eye infringes any valid claim in these patents or patent applications. however, genentech could seek to initiate a lawsuit or present a counterclaim for patent infringement in the declaratory judgment action we have filed, and assert that its patents are valid and cover aflibercept or vegf trap-eye or uses thereof. genentech may be motivated to take such action(s) in an effort to impair our ability to develop and sell aflibercept or vegf trap-eye, which represent potential competitive threats to genentech's vegf-binding products and product candidates. we commenced in november 2010 a lawsuit against genentech seeking a declaratory judgment that no activities relating to the regeneron ve gf trap infringe any valid claim of certain genentech patents. it is possible that the court may decide to dismiss the action on procedural grounds or reach an adverse determination that would likely materially harm our business by requiring us to seek a license, which may not be available, or precluding the manufacture, further development, or sale of aflibercept or vegf trap-eye, or resulting in a damage award. similar patent actions may be taken in other countries, which could have similar or other adverse outcomes that would materially harm our business. we are aware of patents and pending applications owned by roche that claim antibodies to il-6r and methods of treating rheumatoid arthritis with such antibodies. we are developing regn88, an antibody to il-6r, for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. although we do not believe that regn88 infringes any valid claim in these patents or patent applications, roche could initiate a lawsuit for patent infringement and assert its patents are valid and cover regn88. 20 we are aware of a u.s. patent jointly owned by genentech and city of hope relating to the production of recombinant antibodies in host cells. we currently produce our antibody product candidates using recombinant antibodies from host cells and may choose to produce additional antibody product candidates in this manner. neither arcalyst , aflibercept, nor vegf trap-eye are recombinant antibodies. if any of our antibody product candidates are produced in a manner subject to valid claims in the genentech patent, then we may need to obtain a license from genentech, should one be available. genentech has licensed this patent to several different companies under confidential license agreements. if we desire a license for any of our antibody product candidates and are unable to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms or at all, we may be restr icted in our ability to use genentech's techniques to make recombinant antibodies in or to import them into the united states. further, we are aware of a number of other third party patent applications that, if granted with claims as currently drafted, may cover our current or planned activities. we cannot assure you that our products and/or actions in manufacturing and selling our product candidates will not infringe such patents. any patent holders could sue us for damages and seek to prevent us from manufacturing, selling, or developing our drug candidates, and a court may find that we are infringing validly issued patents of third parties. in the event that the manufacture, use, or sale of any of our clinical candidates infringes on the patents or violates other proprietary rights of third parties, we may be prevented from pursuing product development, manufacturing, and commercialization of our drugs and may be required to pay costly damages. such a result may materially harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. legal disputes are likely to be costly and time consuming to defend. we seek to obtain licenses to patents when, in our judgment, such licenses are needed. if any licenses are required, we may not be able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. the failure to obtain any such license could prevent us from developing or commercializing any one or more of our product candidates, which could severely harm our business. regulatory and litigation risks if we do not obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, we will not be able to market or sell them. we cannot sell or market products without regulatory approval. if we do not obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our product candidates, including arcalyst for the treatment of diseases other than caps or vegf trap-eye for the treatment of ophthalmologic disease, the value of our company and our results of operations will be harmed. in the united states, we must obtain and maintain approval from the fda for each drug we intend to sell. obtaining fda approval is typically a lengthy and expensive process, and approval is highly uncertain. foreign governments also regulate drugs distributed in their country and approval in any country is likely to be a lengthy and expensive process, and approval is highly uncertain. except for the fda approval of arcalyst and ema approval of rilonacept for the treatment of caps, none of our product candidates has ever received regulatory approval to be marketed and sold in the united states or any other country. we may never receive regulatory approval for any of our product candidates. the fda enforces good clinical practices (gcps) and other regulations through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, clinical research organizations (cros), principal investigators, and trial sites. if we or any of the third parties conducting our clinical studies are determined to have failed to fully comply with gcps, the study protocol or applicable regulations, the clinical data generated in our studies may be deemed unreliable. this could result in non-approval of our product candidates by the fda, or we or the fda may decide to conduct additional audits or require additional clinical studies, which would delay our development programs and substantially harm our business. before approving a new drug or biologic product, the fda requires that the facilities at which the product will be manufactured be in compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cgmp requirements. manufacturing product candidates in compliance with these regulatory requirements is complex, time-consuming, and expensive. to be successful, our products must be manufactured for development, following approval, in commercial quantities, in compliance with regulatory requirements, and at competitive costs. if we or any of our product collaborators or third-party manufacturers, product packagers, or labelers are unable to maintain regulatory compliance, the fda can impose regulatory sanctions, including, among other things, refusal to approve a pending application for a new drug or biologic product, or revocation of a pre-existing approval. as a r esult, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially harmed. 21 in addition to the fda and other regulatory agency regulations in the united states, we are subject to a variety of foreign regulatory requirements governing human clinical trials, manufacturing, marketing and approval of drugs, and commercial sale and distribution of drugs in foreign countries. the foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with fda approval as well as country specific regulations. whether or not we obtain fda approval for a product in the united states, we must obtain approval by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries before we can commence clinical trials or marketing of arcalyst or any of our product candidates in those countries. if we fail to meet the stringent requirements of governmental regulation in the manufacture of our marketed product and clinical candidates, we could incur substantial remedial costs, delays in the development of our clinical candidates and/or in their commercial launch if they obtain regulatory approval, and a reduction in sales. we and our third party providers are required to maintain compliance with cgmp, and are subject to inspections by the fda or comparable agencies in other jurisdictions to confirm such compliance. changes of suppliers or modifications of methods of manufacturing may require amending our application to the fda and acceptance of the change by the fda prior to release of product. because we produce multiple product candidates at our facility in rensselaer, new york, there are increased risks associated with cgmp compliance. our inability, or the inability of our third party service providers, to demonstrate ongoing cgmp compliance could require us to engage in lengthy and expensive remediation efforts, withdraw or recall product, halt or interrupt clinical trials, and/or interrupt commercial supply of our marketed product. any delay, interruption or other is sues that arise in the manufacture, fill-finish, packaging, or storage of our marketed product and product candidates as a result of a failure of our facilities or the facilities or operations of third parties to pass any regulatory agency inspection or maintain cgmp compliance could significantly impair our ability to develop and commercialize our products. any finding of non-compliance could increase our costs, cause us to delay the development of our product candidates, and cause us to lose revenue from our marketed product. if the testing or use of our products harms people, we could be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims. the testing, manufacturing, marketing, and sale of drugs for use in people expose us to product liability risk. any informed consent or waivers obtained from people who sign up for our clinical trials may not protect us from liability or the cost of litigation. we may be subject to claims by patients who use arcalyst that they have been injured by a side effect associated with the drug. our product liability insurance may not cover all potential liabilities or may not completely cover any liability arising from any such litigation. moreover, in the future we may not have access to liability insurance or be able to maintain our insurance on acceptable terms. if we market and sell arcalyst in a way that violates federal or state fraud and abuse laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. in addition to fda and related regulatory requirements, we are subject to health care fraud and abuse laws, such as the federal false claims act, the anti-kickback provisions of the federal social security act, and other state and federal laws and regulations. federal and state anti-kickback laws prohibit, among other things, payments or other remuneration to induce or reward someone to purchase, prescribe, endorse or recommend a product that is reimbursed under federal or state healthcare programs. if we provide payments or other remuneration to a healthcare professional to induce the prescribing of our products, we could face liability under state and federal anti-kickback laws. federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, such as allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; reporting to pricing services inflated average wholesale prices that were then used by federal programs to set reimbursement rates; engaging in promotion for uses that the fda has not approved, known as off-label uses, that caused claims to be submitted to medicaid for non-covered off-label uses, and submitting inflated best price information to the medica id rebate program. 22 the majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payer. sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer's products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines, and imprisonment. even if it is determined that we have not violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which would harm our business and financial results and condition. because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the safe harbors, it is possible that some of our business activities could be challenged under one or more of such laws. in recent years, several states and localities, including california, the district of columbia, massachusetts, maine, minnesota, nevada, new mexico, vermont, and west virginia, have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, and file periodic reports with the state or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, and other activities. similar requirements are being considered in other states. in addition, as part of the federal patient protection and affordable care act, or ppaca, pharmaceutical companies will be required to file reports with the federal government regarding payments made to healthcare professionals. many of these requirements are new and uncertain, and the penalties for failure to comply with these requirements are unclear. nonetheless, if we are f ound not to be in full compliance with these laws, we could face enforcement actions, fines, and other penalties, and could receive adverse publicity, which would harm our business and financial results and condition. our operations may involve hazardous materials and are subject to environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations. we may incur substantial liability arising from our activities involving the use of hazardous materials. as a biopharmaceutical company with significant manufacturing operations, we are subject to extensive environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations, including those governing the use of hazardous materials. our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of chemicals, viruses, radioactive compounds, and other hazardous materials. the cost of compliance with environmental, health, and safety regulations is substantial. if an accident involving these materials or an environmental discharge were to occur, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, or face regulatory actions, which could exceed our resources or insurance coverage. our business is subject to increasingly complex corporate governance, public disclosure, and accounting requirements and regulations that could adversely affect our business and financial results and condition. we are subject to changing rules and regulations of various federal and state governmental authorities as well as the stock exchange on which our common stock is listed. these entities, including the public company accounting oversight board (pcaob), the sec and the nasdaq global market, have issued a significant number of new and increasingly complex requirements and regulations over the course of the last several years and continue to develop additional requirements and regulations in response to laws enacted by congress, including the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and, most recently, the dodd-frank wall street reform and protection act, or the dodd-frank act. there are significant corporate governance and executive compensation-related provisions in the dodd-frank act that expressly authorized or required the sec to adopt additional rules in these areas, such as shareholder approval of executive compensation (so-called say on pay ) and proxy access. on january 25, 2011, the sec adopted final rules concerning say on pay . our efforts to comply with these requirements and regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, an increase in expenses and a diversion of management's time from other business activities. in future years, if we are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, the market value of our common stock could be adversely affected. as directed by section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, the sec adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company's internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on form 10-k that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. in addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing our financial statements must 23 attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. our independent registered public accounting firm provided us with an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2010, which report is included in this annual report on form 10-k. however, we cannot assure you that management or our independent registered public accounting firm will be able to provide such an unqualified report as of future year-ends. in this event, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the market value of our common stock. in addition, if it is determined that deficiencies in the design or operation of internal controls exist and that they are reasonably likely to adversely affect our ability to record, process, summarize, and report financial information, we would likely incur additio nal costs to remediate these deficiencies and the costs of such remediation could be material. changes in laws and regulations affecting the healthcare industry could adversely affect our business. all aspects of our business, including research and development, manufacturing, marketing, pricing, sales, litigation, and intellectual property rights, are subject to extensive legislation and regulation. changes in applicable federal and state laws and agency regulations could have a materially negative impact on our business. these include: changes in the fda and foreign regulatory processes for new therapeutics that may delay or prevent the approval of any of our current or future product candidates; new laws, regulations, or judicial decisions related to healthcare availability or the payment for healthcare products and services, including prescription drugs, that would make it more difficult for us to market and sell products once they are approved by the fda or foreign regulatory agencies; changes in fda and foreign regulations that may require additional safety monitoring prior to or after the introduction of new products to market, which could materially increase our costs of doing business; and changes in fda and foreign cgmps that make it more difficult for us to manufacture our marketed product and clinical candidates in accordance with cgmps. the ppaca potential regulations easing the entry of competing follow-on biologics in the marketplace, new legislation or implementation of existing statutory provisions on importation of lower-cost competing drugs from other jurisdictions, and legislation on comparative effectiveness research are examples of previously enacted and possible future changes in laws that could adversely affect our business. risks related to our reliance on third parties if our antibody collaboration with sanofi-aventis is terminated, our business operations and financial condition, and our ability to discover, develop, manufacture, and commercialize our pipeline of product candidates in the time expected, or at all, would be materially harmed. we rely heavily on funding from sanofi-aventis to support our target discovery and antibody research and development programs. sanofi-aventis has committed to pay up to $1.28 billion between 2010 and 2017 to fund our efforts to identify and validate drug discovery targets and pre-clinically develop fully human monoclonal antibodies against such targets. in addition, sanofi-aventis funds almost all of the development expenses incurred by both companies in connection with the clinical development of antibodies that sanofi-aventis elects to co-develop with us. we rely on sanofi-aventis to fund these activities. in addition, with respect to those antibodies that sanofi-aventis elects to co-develop with us, such as regn727, regn88, regn668, regn421, regn910, and regn475, we rely on sanofi-aventis to lead much of the clinical development efforts and assist wit h obtaining regulatory approval, particularly outside the united states. we also rely on sanofi-aventis to lead the commercialization efforts to support all of the antibody products that are co-developed by sanofi-aventis and us. if sanofi-aventis does not elect to co-develop the antibodies that we discover or opts-out of their development, we would be required to fund and oversee on our own the clinical trials, any regulatory responsibilities, and the ensuing commercialization efforts to support our antibody products. if sanofi-aventis terminates the antibody collaboration or fails to comply with its payment obligations thereunder, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be materially harmed. we would be required to either expend substantially more resources than we have anticipated to support our research 24 and development efforts, which could require us to seek additional funding that might not be available on favorable terms or at all, or materially cut back on such activities. while we cannot assure you that any of the antibodies from this collaboration will ever be successfully developed and commercialized, if sanofi-aventis does not perform its obligations with respect to antibodies that it elects to co-develop, our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize these antibody product candidates will be significantly adversely affected. if our collaboration with sanofi-aventis for aflibercept is terminated, or sanofi-aventis materially breaches its obligations thereunder, our business operations and financial condition, and our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize aflibercept in the time expected, or at all, would be materially harmed. we rely heavily on sanofi-aventis to lead much of the development of aflibercept. sanofi-aventis funds all of the development expenses incurred by both companies in connection with the aflibercept program. if the aflibercept program continues, we will rely on sanofi-aventis to assist with funding the aflibercept program, provide commercial manufacturing capacity, enroll and monitor clinical trials, obtain regulatory approval, particularly outside the united states, and lead the commercialization of aflibercept. while we cannot assure you that aflibercept will ever be successfully developed and commercialized, if sanofi-aventis does not perform its obligations in a timely manner, or at all, our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize aflibercept in cancer indications will be significantly adversely affected. sanofi-aventis has the right to terminate its collaboration agreement with us at any time upon twelve months advance notice. if sanofi-aventis were to terminate its collaboration agreement with us, we would not have the resources or skills to replace those of our partner, which could require us to seek additional funding that might not be available on favorable terms or at all, and could cause significant delays in the development and/or manufacture of aflibercept and result in substantial additional costs to us. we have limited commercial capabilities and would have to develop or outsource these capabilities. termination of the sanofi-aventis collaboration agreement for aflibercept would create substantial new and additional risks to the successful development and commercialization of aflibercept. if our collaboration with bayer healthcare for vegf trap-eye is terminated, or bayer healthcare materially breaches its obligations thereunder, our business operations and financial condition, and our ability to develop and commercialize vegf trap-eye in the time expected, or at all, would be materially harmed. we rely heavily on bayer healthcare to assist with the development of vegf trap-eye. under our agreement with them, bayer healthcare is required to fund approximately half of the development expenses incurred by both companies in connection with the global vegf trap-eye development program. if the vegf trap-eye program continues, we will rely on bayer healthcare to assist with funding the vegf trap-eye development program, lead the development of vegf trap-eye outside the united states, obtain regulatory approval outside the united states, and provide all sales, marketing, and commercial support for the product outside the united states. in particular, bayer healthcare has responsibility for selling vegf trap-eye outside the united states using its sales force. while we cannot assure you that vegf trap-eye will ever be successfully developed and commerci alized, if bayer healthcare does not perform its obligations in a timely manner, or at all, our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize vegf trap-eye outside the united states will be significantly adversely affected. bayer healthcare has the right to terminate its collaboration agreement with us at any time upon six or twelve months advance notice, depending on the circumstances giving rise to termination. if bayer healthcare were to terminate its collaboration agreement with us, we would not have the resources or skills to replace those of our partner, which could require us to seek additional funding that might not be available on favorable terms or at all, and could cause significant delays in the development and/or commercialization of vegf trap-eye outside the united states and result in substantial additional costs to us. we currently have limited commercial capabilities and would have to develop or outsource these capabilities outside the united states. termination of the bayer healthcare collaboration agreement would create substantial new and additional risks to the successful development and commercialization of vegf trap-eye. our collaborators and service providers may fail to perform adequately in their efforts to support the development, manufacture, and commercialization of arcalyst and our drug candidates. we depend upon third-party collaborators, including sanofi-aventis, bayer healthcare, and service providers such as cros, outside testing laboratories, clinical investigator sites, and third-party manufacturers and product packagers and labelers, to assist us in the manufacture and preclinical and clinical development of our product candidates. if any of our existing collaborators or service providers breaches or terminates its agreement with us or does not perform its development or manufacturing services under an agreement in a timely manner or in compliance 25 with applicable gmps, good laboratory practices (glps), or gcp standards, we could experience additional costs, delays, and difficulties in the manufacture or development of, or in obtaining approval by regulatory authorities for our product candidates. we rely on third party service providers to support the distribution of arcalyst and many other related activities in connection with the commercialization of arcalyst for the treatment of caps. we cannot be certain that these third parties will perform adequately. if these service providers do not perform their services adequately, our efforts to market and sell arcalyst for the treatment of caps will not be successful. risks related to the manufacture of our product candidates we have limited manufacturing capacity, which could inhibit our ability to successfully develop or commercialize our drugs. our manufacturing facility is likely to be inadequate to produce sufficient quantities of product for commercial sale. we intend to rely on our corporate collaborators, as well as contract manufacturers, to produce the large quantities of drug material needed for commercialization of our products. we rely entirely on third-party manufacturers for filling and finishing services. we will have to depend on these manufacturers to deliver material on a timely basis and to comply with regulatory requirements. if we are unable to supply sufficient material on acceptable terms, or if we should encounter delays or difficulties in our relationships with our corporate collaborators or contract manufacturers, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially harmed. we must expand our own manufacturing capacity to support the planned growth of our clinical pipeline. moreover, we may expand our manufacturing capacity to supply commercial quantities of the active pharmaceutical ingredients for our product candidates. this will require substantial additional expenditures, and we will need to hire and train significant numbers of employees and managerial personnel to staff our facility. start-up costs can be large and scale-up entails significant risks related to process development and manufacturing yields. we may be unable to develop manufacturing facilities that are sufficient to produce drug material for all our clinical trials or for commercial use. this may delay our clinical development plans and interfere with our efforts to commercialize our products. in addition, we may be unable to secure adequate filling and finishing services for our products. as a result, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially harmed. we may also be unable to obtain key raw materials and supplies for the manufacture of arcalyst and our product candidates. in addition, we may face difficulties in developing or acquiring production technology and managerial personnel to manufacture sufficient quantities of our product candidates at reasonable costs and in compliance with applicable quality assurance and environmental regulations and governmental permitting requirements. our ability to manufacture our products may be impaired if any of our manufacturing activities are found to infringe third-party patents. the ability for us to manufacture our products in our rensselaer, new york facilities, or to utilize contract manufacturers to produce our products, depends on our ability to operate without infringing the patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. other parties may allege that our manufacturing activities infringe patents or other intellectual property rights. a judicial decision in favor of such third parties could preclude such manufacture of our products. if any of our clinical programs are delayed or discontinued, we may face costs related to the unused capacity at our manufacturing facilities. we have large-scale manufacturing operations in rensselaer, new york. we use our facilities to produce bulk product for clinical and preclinical candidates for ourselves and our collaborations. if our clinical candidates are discontinued, or their clinical development is delayed, we may have to absorb one hundred percent of related overhead costs and inefficiencies. 26 third-party supply failures, business interruptions, or natural disasters affecting our manufacturing facilities in rensselaer, new york could adversely affect our ability to supply our products. we manufacture all of our bulk drug materials at our manufacturing facilities in rensselaer, new york. we would be unable to manufacture these materials if our rensselaer facilities were to cease production due to regulatory requirements or action, business interruptions, labor shortages or disputes, contaminations, fire, natural disasters, or other problems at the facilities. certain raw materials necessary for the manufacture and formulation of arcalyst and of our product candidates are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. in addition, we rely on certain third parties to perform filling, finishing, distribution, and other services related to the manufacture of arcalyst and our product candidates. we would be unable to obtain these raw materials or services for an indeterminate period of time if any of these third-parties were to cease or interrupt production or otherwise fail to supply these materials, products, or services to us for any reason, including due to regulatory requirements or action, adverse financial developments at or affecting the supplier, failure by the supplier to comply with gmps, business interruptions, or labor shortages or disputes. this, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our ability to manufacture or supply arcalyst or our product candidates for use in clinical trials or commercial supply, which could materially and adversely affect our business and future prospects. also, certain of the raw materials required in the manufacture and the formulation of our clinical candidates may be derived from biological sources, including mammalian tissues, bovine serum, and human serum albumin. there are certain european regulatory restrictions on using these biological source materials. if we are required to substitute for these sources to comply with european regulatory requirements, our clinical development activities may be delayed or interrupted. risks related to commercialization of products if we are unable to establish sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities, or to enter into agreements with third parties to do so, we will be unable to successfully market and sell future products. we are marketing and selling arcalyst for the treatment of caps ourselves in the united states, primarily through third party service providers. we have no sales or distribution personnel in the united states and have only a small staff with commercial capabilities. we currently have no sales, marketing, commercial, or distribution capabilities outside the united states. if we are unable to obtain those capabilities, either by developing our own organizations or entering into agreements with service providers, even if our current or future product candidates receive marketing approval, we will not be able to successfully sell those products. in that event, we will not be able to generate significant revenue, even if our product candidates receive regulatory approval. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to hire the qualified sales and marketing personnel we need or that we will be able to enter into marketing or distribution agreements with third-party providers on acceptable terms, if at all. under the terms of our collaboration agreement with sanofi-aventis, we will rely on sanofi-aventis for sales, marketing, and distribution of aflibercept in cancer indications, should it be approved in the future by regulatory authorities for marketing. we will have to rely on a third party or devote significant resources to develop our own sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities for our other product candidates, including vegf trap-eye in the united states and arcalyst for patients with gout initiating uric acid-lowering drug therapy if such products receive regulatory approval. though we are currently actively pursuing establishing our own sales, marketing, and distribution organization in anticipation of filing for and r eceiving regulatory approval to market and sell in the united states vegf trap-eye and arcalyst for patients with gout initiating uric acid-lowering drug therapy, we may be unsuccessful in doing so, which would harm our business and adversely affect our future prospects. there may be too few patients with caps to profitably commercialize arcalyst in this indication. our only approved product is arcalyst for the treatment of caps, a group of rare, inherited auto-inflammatory diseases. these rare diseases affect a very small group of people. the incidence of caps has been reported to be approximately 1 in 1,000,000 people in the united states. although the incidence rate of caps in europe has not been reported, it is known to be a rare set of diseases. in october 2009, we received european marketing authorization for rilonacept for caps. in 2009, novartis received regulatory approval in the u.s. and europe for its il-1 antibody product for the treatment of caps. given the very rare nature of the disease and the competition from novartis' il-1 antibody product, we may be unable to profitably commercialize arcalyst in this indication. 27 even if our product candidates are approved for marketing, their commercial success is highly uncertain because our competitors have received approval for and may be marketing products with a similar mechanism of action or may enter the marketplace with better or lower cost drugs. there is substantial competition in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries from pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and chemical companies. many of our competitors have substantially greater research, preclinical and clinical product development and manufacturing capabilities, and financial, marketing, and human resources than we do. our smaller competitors may also enhance their competitive position if they acquire or discover patentable inventions, form collaborative arrangements, or merge with large pharmaceutical companies. even if we achieve product commercialization, our competitors have achieved, and may continue to achieve, product commercialization before our products are approved for marketing and sale. genentech has an approved vegf antagonist, avastin , on the market for treating certain cancers and many different pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are working to develop competing vegf antagonists, including novartis, amgen, imclone/eli lilly, pfizer, astrazeneca, and glaxosmithkline. many of these molecules are farther along in development than aflibercept and may offer competitive advantages over our molecule. each of pfizer, onyx pharmaceuticals (together with its partner bayer healthcare), and glaxosmithkline are marketing and selling oral medications that target tumor cell growth and new vasculature fo rmation that fuels the growth of tumors. the marketing approvals for genentech's vegf antagonist, avastin , and their extensive, ongoing clinical development plan for avastin in other cancer indications, make it more difficult for us to enroll patients in clinical trials to support aflibercept and to obtain regulatory approval of aflibercept in these cancer settings. this may delay or impair our ability to successfully develop and commercialize aflibercept. in addition, even if aflibercept is ever approved for sale for the treatment of certain cancers, it will be difficult for our drug to compete against avastin and the fda approved kinase inhibitors, because doctors and patients will have significant experience using these medicines. in addition, an oral medication may be considerably less expensive fo r patients than a biologic medication, providing a competitive advantage to companies that market such products. the market for eye disease products is also very competitive. novartis and genentech are collaborating on the commercialization and further development of a vegf antibody fragment, lucentis , for the treatment of wet amd, dme, and other eye indications. lucentis was approved by the fda in june 2006 for the treatment of wet amd and in june 2010 for the treatment of macular edema following rvo. lucentis was also approved by the ema for wet amd in january 2007 and for dme in january 2011. many other companies are working on the development of product candidates for the potential treatment of wet amd and dme including those that act by blocking vegf and vegf receptors, as well as sirnas that modulate gene expression. in addition, ophthalmologists are using off-label, with success for the treatment of wet amd, dme, and rvo, a third-party repackaged version of genentech's approved vegf antagonist, avastin . the nei and others are conducting long-term, controlled clinical trials comparing lucentis to avastin in the treatment of wet amd. data from these trials are expected in 2011. even if vegf trap-eye is ever approved for sale for the treatment of eye diseases, it may be difficult for our drug to compete against lucentis , because doctors and patients have had significant experience using this medicine. moreover, the relatively low cost of therapy with avastin in patients with wet amd presents a significant competitive challenge in this indication. while we believe that aflibercept would not be well tolerated if administered directly to the eye, if aflibercept is ever approved for the treatment of certain cancers, there is a risk that third parties will attempt to repackage aflibercept for use and sale for the treatment of wet amd and other diseases of the eye, which would present a potential low-cost competitive threat to the vegf trap-eye if it is ever approved for sale. the availability of highly effective fda approved tnf-antagonists such as enbrel , remicade , humira (adalimumab), a registered trademark of abbott, and simponi (golimumab), a registered trademark of centocor, and the il-1 receptor antagonist kineret , and other marketed therapies makes it more difficult to successfully develop and commercialize arcalyst in other indications, and this is one of the reasons we discontinued the development of arcalyst in adult rheumatoid arthritis. in addition, even if arcalyst is ever approved for sale in indications where tnf-antagonists are approved, it will be difficult for our drug to compete against these fda approved tnf-antagonists because doctors and patients have had significant experience using these effective medicines. moreover, in such indications these approved therapeutics may offer competitive advantages over arcalyst , such as requiring fewer injections. 28 there are both small molecules and antibodies in development by other companies that are designed to block the synthesis of il-1 or inhibit the signaling of il-1. for example, eli lilly, xoma (in collaboration with servier), and novartis are each developing antibodies to il-1 and both amgen and medimmune are developing antibodies to the il-1 receptor. in 2009, novartis received regulatory approval in the u.s. and europe for canakinumab, a fully human anti-interleukin-il1 antibody, for the treatment of caps. canakinumab is also in development for atherosclerosis and a number of other inflammatory diseases. novartis' il-1 antibody and these other drug candidates could offer competitive advantages over arcalyst . for example, canakinumab is dosed once every eight weeks co mpared to the once-weekly dosing regimen for arcalyst . the successful development and/or commercialization of these competing molecules could adversely affect sales of arcalyst for caps and delay or impair our ability to commercialize arcalyst for indications other than caps. we are developing arcalyst for the prevention of gout flares in patients initiating uric acid-lowering therapy. in january 2011, novartis announced that the results of two phase 3 studies with canakinumab focused on reducing pain and preventing recurrent attacks or flares in patients with hard-to-treat gout were positive. in addition, novartis announced that it had submitted an application to the ema for approval of canakinumab in gout. novartis also announced that it plans to submit to the fda in the first quarter of 2011 an application for approval of canakinumab in gout. canakinumab is dosed less frequently for the treatment of caps and may be perceived as offering competitive advantages over arcalyst in gout by some physicians, which would make it difficult for us to successfully commercialize arcalyst in that disease. currently, inexpensive, oral therapies such as analgesics and other nsaids are used as the standard of care to treat the symptoms of gout diseases. these established, inexpensive, orally delivered drugs will make it difficult for us to successfully commercialize arcalyst in these diseases. our early-stage clinical candidates in development are all fully human monoclonal antibodies, which were generated using our velocimmune technology. our antibody generation technologies and early-stage clinical candidates face competition from many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies using various technologies. numerous other companies are developing therapeutic antibody products. companies such as pfizer, johnson &amp; johnson, astrazeneca, amgen, biogen idec, novartis, genentech/roche, bristol-myers squib, abbott, and glaxosmithkline have generated therapeutic products that are currently in development or on the market that are derived from recombinant dna that comprise human antibody sequences. we are aware of several pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies actively engaged in the research and development of antibody products against targets that are also the targets of our early-stage product candidates. for example, pfizer, johnson &amp; johnson, and abbott are developing antibody product candidates against ngf. genentech/roche is marketing an antibody against il-6r (tocilizumab) for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, and several other companies, including centocor ortho biotech and bristol-myers squibb, have antibodies against il-6 in clinical development for this disease. glaxosmithkline, in partnership with oncomed pharmaceuticals, has a dll4 antibody in clinical development for the treatment of solid tumors. aerovance has two formulations of a biologic directed against il-4 in clinical development. amgen previously had an antibody against il-4r in clinical development for the treatment of asthma. we believe that several companies, including amgen and pfizer, have development programs for antibodies against pcsk9. amgen, pfizer, and astrazeneca have development programs underway for antibodies against ang2. if any of these or other competitors announces a successful clinical study involving a product that may be competitive with one of our product candidates or the grant of marketing approval by a regulatory agency for a competitive product, such developments may have an adverse effect on our operations or future prospects. the successful commercialization of arcalyst and our product candidates will depend on obtaining coverage and reimbursement for use of these products from third-party payers and these payers may not agree to cover or reimburse for use of our products. our product candidates, if commercialized, may be significantly more expensive than traditional drug treatments. for example, we are developing arcalyst for the prevention of gout flares in patients initiating uric acid-lowering drug therapy. patients suffering from this gout indication are currently treated with inexpensive therapies, including nsaids. these existing treatment options are likely to be considerably less expensive and may be preferable to a biologic medication for some patients. our future revenues and profitability will be adversely 29 affected if united states and foreign governmental, private third-party insurers and payers, and other third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid, do not agree to defray or reimburse the cost of our products to the patients. if these entities refuse to provide coverage and reimbursement with respect to our products or provide an insufficient level of coverage and reimbursement, our products may be too costly for many patients to afford them, and physicians may not prescribe them. many third-party payers cover only selected drugs, making drugs that are not preferred by such payers more expensive for patients, and require prior authorization or failure on another type of treatment before covering a particular drug. in particular, payers may impose these obstacles to coverage on higher-priced drugs, as our product candidates are likely to be. we market and sell arcalyst in the united states for the treatment of a group of rare genetic disorders called caps. we have received european union marketing authorization for rilonacept for the treatment of caps. there may be too few patients with caps to profitably commercialize arcalyst . physicians may not prescribe arcalyst , and caps patients may not be able to afford arcalyst , if third party payers do not agree to reimburse the cost of arcalyst therapy and this would adversely affect our ability to commerciali ze arcalyst profitably. in addition to potential restrictions on coverage, the amount of reimbursement for our products may also reduce our profitability. government and other third-party payers are challenging the prices charged for healthcare products and increasingly limiting, and attempting to limit, both coverage and level of reimbursement for prescription drugs. in march 2010, the ppaca and a related reconciliation bill were enacted in the u.s. this legislation imposes cost containment measures that are likely to adversely affect the amount of reimbursement for our future products. the full effects of this legislation are unknown at this time and will not be known until regulations and guidance are issued by the centers for medicare and medicaid services and other federal and state agencies. some states are also considering legislation that would control the prices o f drugs, and state medicaid programs are increasingly requesting manufacturers to pay supplemental rebates and requiring prior authorization by the state program for use of any drug for which supplemental rebates are not being paid. it is likely that federal and state legislatures and health agencies will continue to focus on additional health care reform in the future that will impose additional constraints on prices and reimbursements for our products. since arcalyst and our product candidates in clinical development will likely be too expensive for most patients to afford without health insurance coverage, if our products are unable to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement by third-party payers, our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates may be adversely impacted. any limitation on the use of our products or any decrease in the price of our products will have a material negative effect on our ability to achieve profitability. in certain foreign countries, pricing, coverage, and level of reimbursement of prescription drugs are subject to governmental control, and we may be unable to negotiate coverage, pricing, and reimbursement on terms that are favorable to us. in some foreign countries, the proposed pricing for a drug must be approved before it may be lawfully marketed. the requirements governing drug pricing vary widely from country to country. for example, the european union provides options for its member states to restrict the range of medicinal products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices of medicinal products for human use. a member state may approve a specific price for the medicinal product or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the medicinal product on the market. our results of operations may suffer if we are unable to market our products in foreign countries or if coverage and reimbursement for our products in foreign countries is limited or delayed. risk related to employees we are dependent on our key personnel and if we cannot recruit and retain leaders in our research, development, manufacturing, and commercial organizations, our business will be harmed. we are highly dependent on certain of our executive officers and other key members of our senior management team. if we are not able to retain any of these persons or our chairman, our business may suffer. in particular, we depend on the services of p. roy vagelos, m.d., the chairman of our board of directors, leonard schleifer, m.d., ph.d., our president and chief executive officer, george d. yancopoulos, m.d., ph.d., our executive vice president, chief scientific officer and president, regeneron research laboratories, and neil stahl, ph.d., our senior vice president, research and development sciences. as we prepare for commercialization in the united states of our late-stage 30 product candidates should they receive regulatory approval, we will also be highly dependent on the expertise and services of members of our senior management leading these commercialization efforts. there is intense competition in the biotechnology industry for qualified scientists and managerial personnel in the development, manufacture, and commercialization of drugs. we may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary to continue to advance our business and achieve our strategic objectives. risks related to our common stock our stock price is extremely volatile. there has been significant volatility in our stock price and generally in the market prices of biotechnology companies' securities. various factors and events may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. these factors include, by way of example: progress, delays, or adverse results in clinical trials; announcement of technological innovations or product candidates by us or competitors; fluctuations in our operating results; third party claims that our products or technologies infringe their patents; public concern as to the safety or effectiveness of arcalyst or any of our product candidates; developments in our relationship with collaborative partners; developments in the biotechnology industry or in government regulation of healthcare; large sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors, or significant shareholders; arrivals and departures of key personnel; and general market conditions. the trading price of our common stock has been, and could continue to be, subject to wide fluctuations in response to these and other factors, including the sale or attempted sale of a large amount of our common stock in the market. broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the market price of our common stock. future sales of our common stock by our significant shareholders or us may depress our stock price and impair our ability to raise funds in new share offerings. a small number of our shareholders beneficially own a substantial amount of our common stock. as of december 31, 2010, our four largest shareholders plus leonard s. schleifer, m.d, ph.d., our chief executive officer, beneficially owned 50.9% of our outstanding shares of common stock, assuming, in the case of our chief executive officer, the conversion of his class a stock into common stock and the exercise of all options held by him which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2010. in september 2003, sanofi-aventis (then aventis pharmaceuticals inc.) purchased 2,799,552 newly issued, unregistered shares of our common stock, and in december 2007 sanofi-aventis purchased an additional 12 million newly issued, unregistered shares of our common stock. under our investor agreement, as amended, with sanofi-aventis, these shares may not be sold un til december 20, 2017 except under limited circumstances and subject to earlier termination of these restrictions upon the occurrence of certain events. in addition, in october 2010, sanofi-aventis purchased an additional 1,017,401 shares of common stock in our underwritten public offering. as of december 31, 2010, sanofi-aventis beneficially owned 15,816,953 shares of our common stock, representing approximately 18.1% of the shares of common stock then outstanding. if sanofi-aventis, or our other significant shareholders or we, sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur exists, the market price of our common stock could fall. sales of common stock by our significant shareholders, including sanofi-aventis, also might make it more difficult for us to raise funds by selling equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. our existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval. 31 holders of class a stock, who are generally the shareholders who purchased their stock from us before our initial public offering, are entitled to ten votes per share, while holders of common stock are entitled to one vote per share. as of december 31, 2010, holders of class a stock held 20.0% of the combined voting power of all shares of common stock and class a stock then outstanding. these shareholders, if acting together, would be in a position to significantly influence the election of our directors and to effect or prevent certain corporate transactions that require majority or supermajority approval of the combined classes, including mergers and other business combinations. this may result in our taking corporate actions that other shareholders may not consider to be in their best interest and may affect the price of our common stock. as of d ecember 31, 2010: our current executive officers and directors beneficially owned 13.1% of our outstanding shares of common stock, assuming conversion of their class a stock into common stock and the exercise of all options held by such persons which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2010, and 26.7% of the combined voting power of our outstanding shares of common stock and class a stock, assuming the exercise of all options held by such persons which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2010; and our four largest shareholders plus leonard s. schleifer, m.d., ph.d. our chief executive officer, beneficially owned 50.9% of our outstanding shares of common stock, assuming, in the case of our chief executive officer, the conversion of his class a stock into common stock and the exercise of all options held by him which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2010. in addition, these five shareholders held 55.8% of the combined voting power of our outstanding shares of common stock and class a stock, assuming the exercise of all options held by our chief executive officer which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2010. pursuant to an investor agreement, as amended, sanofi-aventis has agreed to vote its shares, at sanofi-aventis' election, either as recommended by our board of directors or proportionally with the votes cast by our other shareholders, except with respect to certain change of control transactions, liquidation or dissolution, stock issuances equal to or exceeding 10% of the then outstanding shares or voting rights of common stock and class a stock, and new equity compensation plans or amendments if not materially consistent with our historical equity compensation practices. the anti-takeover effects of provisions of our charter, by-laws, and of new york corporate law and the contractual standstill provisions in our investor agreement with sanofi-aventis, could deter, delay, or prevent an acquisition or other change in control of us and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our by-laws, and the new york business corporation law contain various provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company or our management that shareholders may consider favorable or beneficial. some of these provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. these provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. these provisions include: authorization to issue blank check preferred stock, which is preferred stock that can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior shareholder approval, with rights senior to those of our common shareholders; a staggered board of directors, so that it would take three successive annual meetings to replace all of our directors; a requirement that removal of directors may only be effected for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of at least eighty percent (80%) of the outstanding shares entitled to vote for directors, as well as a requirement that any vacancy on the board of directors may be filled only by the remaining directors; any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of shareholders may be taken without a meeting, only if, prior to such action, all of our shareholders consent, the effect of which is to require that shareholder action may only be taken at a duly convened meeting; any shareholder seeking to bring business before an annual meeting of shareholders must provide timely notice of this intention in writing and meet various other requirements; and 32 under the new york business corporation law, in addition to certain restrictions which may apply to business combinations involving the company and an interested shareholder , a plan of merger or consolidation of the company must be approved by two-thirds of the votes of all outstanding shares entitled to vote thereon. see the risk factor immediately above captioned our existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval. until the later of the fifth anniversaries of the expiration or earlier termination of our antibody collaboration agreements with sanofi-aventis or our aflibercept collaboration with sanofi-aventis, sanofi-aventis will be bound by certain standstill provisions, as amended, which contractually prohibit sanofi-aventis from acquiring more than certain specified percentages of our class a stock and common stock (taken together) or otherwise seeking to obtain control of the company. in addition, we have a change in control severance plan and our chief executive officer has an employment agreement that provides severance benefits in the event our officers are terminated as a result of a change in control of the company. many of our stock options issued under our amended and restated 2000 long-term incentive plan may become fully vested in connection with a change in control of our company, as defined in the plan. these contractual provisions may also have the effect of deterring, delaying, or preventing an acquisition or other change in control. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our earnings and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to changes in interest rates, principally in connection with our investments in marketable securities, which consist primarily of direct obligations of the u.s. government and its agencies, other debt securities guaranteed by the u.s. government, and money market funds that invest in u.s. government securities. we do not believe we are materially exposed to changes in interest rates. under our current policies, we do not use interest rate derivative instruments to manage exposure to interest rate changes. we estimate that a one percent unfavorable change in interest rates would have resulted in approximately a $5.9 million and $0.6 million decrease in the fair value of our investment portfolio at december 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. the increase in interest rate risk year over year is due primarily to higher balances of marketable debt securities with maturities in excess of one year that we held at december 31, 2010 compared to 2009. credit quality risk we have an investment policy that includes guidelines on acceptable investment securities, minimum credit quality, maturity parameters, and concentration and diversification. nonetheless, deterioration of the credit quality of an investment security subsequent to purchase may subject us to the risk of not being able to recover the full principal value of the security. we have recognized other-than-temporary impairment charges related to certain marketable securities of $0.1 million, $0.1 million, and $2.5 million in 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively.risk factors risks related to commercialization of eylea for the treatment of wet amd and risks related to commercialization of products ). our competitors include genentech (a member of the roche group), novartis, pfizer inc., bayer healthcare, onyx pharmaceuticals, inc., eli lilly and company, abbott laboratories, sanofi, merck &amp; co., inc., amgen inc., astrazeneca, bristol-myers squibb , johnson &amp; johnson, glaxosmithkline, and others. many of our competitors have substantially greater research, preclinical, and clinical product development and manufacturing capabilities, and financial, marketing, and human resources than we do. competition from smaller competitors may also be or become more significant if those competitors acquire or discover patentable inventions, form collaborative arrangements, or merge with large pharmaceutical companies. even if we are able to commercialize additional product candidates, one or more of our competitors may have brought a competitive product to market earlier than us or may have obtained or obtain patent protection that dominates or adversely affects our activities or products. our ability to compete will depend, to a great extent, on how fast we can develop safe and effective product candidates, complete clinical testing and approval processes, and supply commercial quantities of the product to the market. competition among product candidates approved for sale will also be based on efficacy, safety, reliability, availability, price, patent position, and other factors. eylea . the market for eye disease products is very competitive. novartis and genentech are collaborating on the commercialization and further development of a vegf antibody fragment (lucentis ) for the treatment of wet amd, dme, rvo, and other eye indications. lucentis was approved by the fda in june 2006 for the treatment of wet amd and in june 2010 for the treatment of macular edema following retinal vein occlusion (rvo). lucentis was approved by the european medicines agency (ema) for wet amd in january 2007, for the treatment of dme in january 2011, and for the treatment of rvo in june 2011. many other companies, including genentech, are working on the development of product candidates and extended delivery devices for the potential treatment of wet amd, dme, and rvo including those that act by blocking vegf and vegf receptors, as well as use of small interfering ribonucleic acids (sirnas) that modulate gene expression. for example, in january, 2012, genentech submitted an ind for an extended delivery device. in addition, ophthalmologists are using off-label, with success for the treatment of wet amd, dme, and rvo, a third-party repackaged version of genentech approved vegf antagonist, avastin (bevacizumab). the relatively low cost of therapy with avastin in patients with wet amd presents a significant competitive challenge in this indication. the national eye institute (nei) and others are conducting long-term, controlled clinical trials comparing lucentis to avastin in the treatment of wet amd. one-year data from the comparison of age-related macular degeneration treatments trial (catt) were reported in april 2011 and indicated that avastin dosed monthly was non-inferior to lucentis dosed monthly in the primary efficacy endpoint of mean visual acuity gain at 52 weeks. avastin is also being evaluated in eye diseases in trials that have been initiated in the united kingdom, canada, brazil, mexico, germany, israel, and other areas. it may be difficult for eylea to compete in this or other eye indications for which it may be approved against lucentis and off-label use of avastin because doctors and patients have had significant experience using these medicines and because of the relatively low cost of avastin . moreover, the recently reported results of the catt study, combined with the relatively low cost of avastin in treating patients with wet amd, may well exacerbate the competitive challenge which eylea will face in this or other eye indications for which it may be approved. in addition, while we believe that zaltrap would not be well tolerated if administered directly to the eye, if zaltrap is approved for the treatment of certain cancers, there is a risk that third parties will attempt to repackage zaltrap for off-label use and sale for the treatment of wet amd and other diseases of the eye, which would present a potential low-cost competitive threat to eylea for wet amd or other eye indications. 14 arcalyst . in 2009, novartis received regulatory approval in the united states and europe for canakinumab, a fully human anti-interleukin-il1 antibody, for the treatment of caps. in january 2011, novartis announced that it had submitted an application to the ema for approval of canakinumab in the treatment of gout flares. novartis submitted a supplemental bla to the fda in the first quarter of 2011 for approval of canakinumab in gout, which was denied in august 2011 based upon safety concerns. canakinumab is also in development for atherosclerosis and a number of other inflammatory diseases. in addition, there are both small molecules and antibodies in development by other third parties that are designed to block the synthesis of il-1 or inhibit the signaling of il-1. for example, xoma ltd., in collaboration with servier, is developing an antibody to il-1, and both amgen and medimmune are developing antibodies to the il-1 receptor. these drug candidates could offer competitive advantages over arcalyst . the successful development and/or commercialization of these competing molecules could adversely affect sales of arcalyst for caps and delay or impair our ability to commercialize arcalyst for indications other than caps. zaltrap . many companies are developing therapeutic molecules designed to block the actions of vegf specifically and angiogenesis in general. a variety of approaches have been employed, including antibodies to vegf, antibodies to the vegf receptor, small molecule antagonists to the vegf receptor tyrosine kinase, and other anti-angiogenesis strategies. many of these alternative approaches may offer competitive advantages to aflibercept in efficacy, side-effect profile, durability of effect, or method of delivery. additionally, some of these molecules are already approved for marketing and have a broader range of indications than our product candidate. in particular, genentech has an approved vegf antagonist, avastin , on the market for treating certain cancers and a number of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are working to develop competing vegf antagonists, including novartis, amgen, imclone llc/eli lilly, pfizer, astrazeneca, and glaxosmithkline. many of these molecules are further along in development than zaltrap and may offer competitive advantages over our molecule. pfizer, onyx (together with its partner bayer healthcare), and glaxosmithkline are selling and marketing oral medications that target tumor cell growth and new vasculature formation that fuels the growth of tumors. monoclonal antibodies. our clinical candidates in development are all fully human monoclonal antibodies which were generated using our velocimmune technology. our antibody generation technologies and clinical candidates face competition from many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies using various technologies. numerous other companies are developing therapeutic antibody products. companies such as pfizer, johnson &amp; johnson, astrazeneca, amgen, biogen idec, inc., novartis, genentech, bristol-myers squib, abbott, and glaxosmithkline have generated therapeutic products that are currently in development or on the market that are derived from recombinant dna that comprise human antibody sequences. as noted above, astellas has licensed our velocimmune technology as part of their internal antibody development programs. we are aware of several pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies actively engaged in the research and development of antibody products against targets that are also the targets of our early-stage product candidates. for example, pfizer, johnson &amp; johnson, and abbott are developing antibody product candidates against ngf. genentech is marketing an antibody against il-6r (tocilizumab) for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis, and several other companies, including centocor ortho biotech, inc. and bristol-myers squibb, have antibodies against il-6 in clinical development for this disease. glaxosmithkline, in partnership with oncomed pharmaceuticals, inc., has a dll4 antibody in clinical development for the treatment of solid tumors. aerovance has completed initial clinical trials of two formulations of a biologic directed against il-4. amgen previously had an antibody against il-4r in clinical development for the treatment of asthma. amgen and pfizer have development programs for antibodies against pcsk9; alnylam has a clinical program underway with an rnai molecule against pcsk9. amgen, pfizer, and astrazeneca have development programs underway for antibodies against ang2. 15 other areas. many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are attempting to discover new therapeutics for indications in which we invest substantial time and resources. in these and related areas, intellectual property rights have been sought and certain rights have been granted to competitors and potential competitors of ours, and we may be at a substantial competitive disadvantage in such areas as a result of, among other things, our lack of experience, trained personnel, and expertise. a number of corporate and academic competitors are involved in the discovery and development of novel therapeutics that are the focus of other research or development programs we are now conducting. these competitors include amgen and roche, as well as many others. many firms and entities are engaged in research and development in the areas of cytokines, interleukins, angiogenesis, and muscle conditions. some of these competitors are currently conducting advanced preclinical and clinical research programs in these areas. these and other competitors may have established substantial intellectual property and other competitive advantages. if any of these or other competitors announces a successful clinical study involving a product that may be competitive with one of our product candidates or the grant of marketing approval by a regulatory agency for a competitive product, such developments may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, cash flows, or future prospects. we also compete with academic institutions, governmental agencies, and other public or private research organizations, which conduct research, seek patent protection, and establish collaborative arrangements for the development and marketing of products that would provide royalties or other consideration for use of their technology. these institutions are becoming more active in seeking patent protection and licensing arrangements to collect royalties or other consideration for use of the technology they have developed. products developed in this manner may compete directly with products we develop. we also compete with others in acquiring technology from these institutions, agencies, and organizations. patents, trademarks, and trade secrets our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain patents, maintain trade secret protection, and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties (see item 1a. risk factors risks related to intellectual property and market exclusivity we may be restricted in our development, manufacturing, and/or commercialization activities by, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed, third-party patents or other proprietary rights, and the costs and expenses of ongoing patent litigation have been and will likely continue to be significant. ). our policy is to file patent applications to protect technology, inventions, and improvements that we consider important to our business and operations. as of december 31, 2011, we held an ownership interest in a total of approximately 186 issued patents in the united states and approximately 570 issued patents in foreign countries with respect to our products and technologies. in addition, we hold an ownership interest in hundreds of patent applications in the united states and foreign countries. our patent portfolio includes granted patents and pending patent applications covering our velocisuite technologies, including our velocimmune mouse platform which produces fully human monoclonal antibodies. our issued patents covering these technologies generally expire between 2020 and 2028. however, we continue to file patent applications directed to improvements to these technology platforms. our patent portfolio also includes issued patents and pending applications relating to our marketed products, arcalyst and eylea , and our product candidates in clinical development. these patents cover the proteins and dna encoding the proteins, manufacturing patents, method of use patents, and pharmaceutical compositions, as well as various methods of using the products. for each of arcalyst , eylea and our late-stage product candidate, zaltrap , these patents generally expire between 2020 and 2028. however, the projected patent terms may be subject to extension based on potential patent term extensions in countries where such extensions are available. we also are the nonexclusive licensee of a number of additional patents and patent applications. in december 2011, we and genentech entered into a non-exclusive license and partial settlement agreement relating to ophthalmic sales of eylea in the united states. pursuant to this agreement, we received a non-exclusive license to certain patents relating to vegf receptor proteins, known as the davis-smyth patents, and other technology patents. under the terms of the agreement, we agreed to make payments to genentech based on u.s. sales of eylea commencing upon fda approval of eylea in november 2011 through may 7, 2016. we will be required to make a one-time, non-refundable $60 million payment upon cumulative u.s. sales of eylea reaching $400 million. in addition, we agreed to pay royalties of 4.75% on cumulative u.s. sales of eylea between $400 million and $3 billion and 5.5% on any cumulative u.s. sales of eylea over $3 billion. in july 2008 we entered into an amended and restated non-exclusive license agreement with cellectis s.a. pursuant to which we licensed certain patents and patent applications relating to a process for the specific replacement of a copy of a gene in the receiver genome by homologous recombination. pursuant to this agreement, we agreed to pay cellectis a low, single-digit royalty based on any future revenue received by us from any future licenses or sales of our velocigene or velocimmune products or services. no royalties are payable to cellectis on any revenue from commercial sales of antibodies from our velocimmune technology, including antibodies developed under our collaboration with sanofi. we also have non-exclusive license agreements with amgen and other organizations for patent rights related to arcalyst . in connection with these licenses, we pay a combined mid-single digit royalty on net sales of arcalyst . 16 patent law relating to the patentability and scope of claims in the biotechnology field is evolving and our patent rights are subject to this additional uncertainty. the degree of patent protection that will be afforded to our products in the united states and other important commercial markets is uncertain and is dependent upon the scope of protection decided upon by the patent offices, courts, and governments in these countries. there is no certainty that our existing patents or others, if obtained, will provide us protection from competition or provide commercial benefit. others may independently develop similar products or processes to those developed by us, duplicate any of our products or processes or, if patents are issued to us, design around any products and processes covered by our patents. we expect to continue, when appropriate, to file product and process applications with respect to our inventions. however, we may not file any such applications or, if filed, the patents may not be issued. patents issued to or licensed by us may be infringed by the products or processes of others. defense and enforcement of our intellectual property rights is expensive and time consuming, even if the outcome is favorable to us. it is possible that patents issued or licensed to us will be successfully challenged, that a court may find that we are infringing validly issued patents of third parties, or that we may have to alter or discontinue the development of our products or pay licensing fees to take into account patent rights of third parties (see item 1a. risk factors - risks related to intellectual property and market exclusivity we may be restricted in our development, manufacturing, and/or commercialization activities by, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed, third-party patents or other proprietary rights, and the costs and expenses of ongoing patent litigation have been and will likely continue to be significant. ). government regulation regulation by government authorities in the united states and foreign countries is a significant factor in the research, development, manufacture, and marketing of arcalyst , eylea , and our product candidates (see item 1a. risk factors risks related to commercialization of eylea for wet amd - our regulatory approval for sales of eylea is limited to the treatment of wet amd and is limited to sales in the united states. if we don't receive approval for eylea for other indications, or if approvals are not obtained for sales in other countries, our sales and profits will be limited and risks related to the development and approval of our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products if we do not obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, or maintain regulatory approval for eylea in the united states, we will not be able to market or sell them, which would materially and negatively impact our business, results of operations, and prospects. ) . all of our product candidates will require regulatory approval before they can be commercialized. in particular, human therapeutic products are subject to rigorous preclinical and clinical trials and other pre-market approval requirements by the fda and foreign authorities. many aspects of the structure and substance of the fda and foreign pharmaceutical regulatory practices have been reformed during recent years, and continued reform is under consideration in a number of jurisdictions. the ultimate outcome and impact of such reforms and potential reforms cannot be predicted. the activities required before a product candidate may be marketed in the united states begin with preclinical tests. preclinical tests include laboratory evaluations and animal studies to assess the potential safety and efficacy of the product candidate and its formulations. the results of these studies must be submitted to the fda as part of an ind, which must be reviewed by the fda before proposed clinical testing can begin. typically, clinical testing involves a three-phase process. in phase 1, trials are conducted with a small number of subjects to determine the early safety profile of the product candidate. in phase 2, clinical trials are conducted with subjects afflicted with a specific disease or disorder to provide enough data to evaluate the preliminary safety, tolerability, and efficacy of different potential doses of the product candidate. in phase 3, large-scale clinical trials are conducted with patients afflicted with the specific disease or disorder in order to provide enough data to understand the efficacy and safety profile of the product candidate, as required by the fda. the results of the preclinical and clinical testing of a biologic product candidate are then submitted to the fda in the form of a bla for evaluation to determine whether the product candidate may be approved for commercial sale. in responding to a bla, the fda may grant marketing approval, request additional information, or deny the application. any approval required by the fda for any of our product candidates may not be obtained on a timely basis, or at all. the designation of a clinical trial as being of a particular phase is not necessarily indicative that such a trial will be sufficient to satisfy the parameters of a particular phase, and a clinical trial may contain elements of more than one phase notwithstanding the designation of the trial as being of a particular phase. the results of preclinical studies or early stage clinical trials may not predict long-term safety or efficacy of our compounds when they are tested or used more broadly in humans. 17 approval of a product candidate by comparable regulatory authorities in foreign countries is generally required prior to commencement of marketing of the product in those countries. the approval procedure varies among countries and may involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain such approval may differ from that required for fda approval. various federal, state, and foreign statutes and regulations also govern or influence the research, manufacture, safety, labeling, storage, record keeping, marketing, transport, and other aspects of pharmaceutical product candidates. the lengthy process of seeking these approvals and the compliance with applicable statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial resources. any failure by us or our collaborators or licensees to obtain, or any delay in obtaining, regulatory approvals could adversely affect the manufacturing or marketing of our products and our ability to receive product or royalty revenue. in addition to the foregoing, our present and future business will be subject to regulation under the united states atomic energy act, the clean air act, the clean water act, the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act, the national environmental policy act, the toxic substances control act, the resource conservation and recovery act, national restrictions, and other current and potential future local, state, federal, and foreign regulations. business segments we manage our business as one segment which includes all activities related to the discovery of pharmaceutical products for the treatment of serious medical conditions and the development and commercialization of these discoveries. this segment also includes revenues and expenses related to (i) research and development activities conducted under our collaboration agreements with third parties and our grant from the nih, (ii) product sales, including eylea for the treatment of wet amd and arcalyst for the treatment of caps, (iii) licensing agreements to utilize our velocimmune technology, and (iv) the supply of specified, ordered research materials using our velocigen e technology platform. employees as of december 31, 2011, we had 1,704 full-time employees, of whom 330 held a ph.d. and/or m.d., or pharmd degree. we believe that we have been successful in attracting skilled and experienced personnel in a highly competitive environment; however, competition for these personnel is intense. none of our personnel are covered by collective bargaining agreements and our management considers its relations with our employees to be good. available information we make available free of charge on or through our internet website ( http://www.regeneron.com ) our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the securities and exchange commission (sec). item 1a. risk factors we operate in an environment that involves a number of significant risks and uncertainties. we caution you to read the following risk factors, which have affected, and/or in the future could affect, our business, prospects, operating results , and financial condition. the risks described below include forward-looking statements, and actual events and our actual results may differ materially from these forward-looking statements. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business, prospects, operating results , and financial condition. furthermore, additional risks and uncertainties are described under other captions in this report and should also be considered by our investors. risks related to our financial results and need for additional financing we have had a history of operating losses and we may never achieve profitability. if we continue to incur operating losses, we may be unable to continue our operations. from inception on january 8, 1988 through december 31, 2011, we had a cumulative loss of $1.3 billion. if we continue to incur operating losses and fail to become a profitable company, we may be unable to continue our operations. in the absence of substantial revenue from the sale of products, including our current sales of eylea , and arcalyst or from other sources, the amount, timing, nature or source of which cannot be predicted, our substantial losses will continue as we conduct our research and development activities, commercialize our approved products, and prepare for possible commercialization of our other product candidates and new indications of our marketed products. 18 we may need additional funding in the future, which may not be available to us, and which may force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts. we will need to expend substantial resources for research and development, including costs associated with clinical testing of our product candidates and new indications of our marketed products, continued commercialization of eylea in the united states, to prepare for potential commercialization of our late-stage product candidates and new indications for our marketed products and, if one or more of those product candidates or additional indications receive(s) regulatory approval, to fund the launch of those product(s) or new indications. we believe our existing capital resources, together with funds generated by anticipated eylea net product sales and funding we are entitled to receive under our collaboration agreements, will enable us to meet our anticipated operating needs; however, one or more of our collaboration agreements may terminate, our revenues may fall short of our projections or be delayed, or our expenses may increase, which could result in our capital being consumed significantly faster than anticipated . our expenses may increase for many reasons, including expenses in connection with the launch and marketing of eylea and the potential commercial launches of our late-stage product candidates and new indications for our marketed products, manufacturing scale-up, expenses related to clinical trials testing arcalyst , eylea , regn475, regn846, or regn1154, and expenses related to the potential requirement for us to fund 20% of phase 3 clinical trial costs for any of our antibody product candidates being developed in collaboration with sanofi. we may require additional financing in the future and we may not be able to raise additional funds. if we are able to obtain additional financing through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, such sales will likely be dilutive to our shareholders. debt financing arrangements, if available given the current uncertainties in the global credit and financial markets, may require us to pledge certain assets or enter into covenants that would restrict our business activities or our ability to incur further indebtedness and may be at interest rates and contain other terms that are not favorable to our shareholders. should we require and be unable to (i) raise sufficient funds to complete the development of our product candidates, (ii) to successfully commercialize our late-stage product candidates or new indications for our marketed products if they obtain regulatory approval, and (iii) to continue our manufacturing and marketing of eylea for the treatment of wet amd, we may face delay, reduction, or elimination of our research and development or preclinical or clinical programs and our commercialization activities, which would significantly limit our potential to generate revenue. we cannot be certain how profitable, if at all, our current marketing of eylea for the treatment of wet amd will be and, even if we obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, they may never be successfully launched or become profitable, in which case our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed. the value of our investment portfolio is influenced by varying economic and market conditions and may experience losses. as of december 31, 2011, our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities totaled $810.6 million (including $7.7 million of restricted cash and marketable securities). we have invested our excess cash primarily in direct obligations of the u.s. government and its agencies, other debt securities guaranteed by the u.s. government, and money market funds that invest in u.s. government securities. we consider assets classified as marketable securities to be available-for-sale, as defined by fasb authoritative guidance. unrestricted and restricted marketable securities totaled $325.2 million at december 31, 2011, are carried at fair value, and the unrealized gains and losses are included in other accumulated comprehensive income (loss) as a separate component of stockholders equity. if the decline in the value of a security in our investment portfolio is deemed to be other-than-temporary, we write down the security to its current fair value and recognize a loss which may be fully charged against income. the current economic environment and the volatility of securities markets increase the risk that we may not recover the principal we invested and/or there may be further declines in the market value of securities in our investment portfolio. as a result, we may incur additional charges against income in future periods for other-than-temporary impairments or realized losses upon a security sale or maturity, and such amounts may be material. risks related to the development and approval of our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products we believe that a significant portion of the value attributed to our company by investors is based on the commercial potential of eylea . if approval for eylea is not obtained in countries outside the united states, or approval is not obtained for other indications, or if we fail to maintain regulatory compliance and lose the marketing approval we have in the united states, or if the product is withdrawn for any reason, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition will be materially harmed. 19 whether eylea is approved by regulatory authorities outside the united states or approved by the fda for new indications, and the timing thereof, will depend on many factors, including the following: whether or not the fda determines that the evidence gathered in well-controlled clinical trials, other clinical trials and nonclinical studies of eylea demonstrates that it is safe and effective as a treatment for the indication under review; and whether or not the fda is satisfied that the manufacturing facilities, processes, and controls for eylea are adequate, that the labeling is satisfactory, and that plans for post-marketing studies, safety monitoring, and risk evaluation and management are sufficient; in june 2011, bayer healthcare submitted regulatory applications for marketing approval of elyea in wet amd in the european union and japan. analogous regulatory authorities in these and other countries outside the united states have similar discretion to the fda as to approval of eylea in those countries. if bayer healthcare does not obtain approval to market eylea in the european union, japan, or other countries, or if there are material delays in obtaining such approvals, our business, prospects, operating results , and financial condition will be materially harmed. if we do not obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, or maintain regulatory approval for eylea in the united states, we will not be able to market or sell them, which would materially and negatively impact our business, results of operations, and prospects. we cannot sell or market products without regulatory approval. if we do not obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our product candidates, including arcalyst for the treatment of diseases other than caps, eylea for the treatment of ophthalmologic diseases other than wet amd, and/or zaltrap for one or more oncology indications, the value of our company, our results of operations, and our prospects will be materially harmed. our product candidates, including zaltrap for previously treated mcrc, eylea for crvo and dme, and arcalyst for the prevention of gout flares in patients initiating uric acid-lowering therapy, may not receive regulatory approval. if we are unable to obtain such approval(s), or if we are materially delayed in doing so, our business, prospects, results of operations, and financial condition will be materially harmed. in addition, if we fail to maintain regulatory approval for eylea for the treatment of wet amd, we may lose marketing approval and the ability to generate eylea product sales revenue, which would materially and negatively impact our business, prospects, results of operations, and financial condition. obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval for drug products is costly, time-consuming, and highly uncertain. in the united states, we must obtain and maintain approval from the fda for each drug we intend to sell. obtaining fda approval is typically a lengthy and expensive process, and approval is highly uncertain. foreign governments also regulate drugs distributed in their country and approval in any country is likely to be a lengthy and expensive process, and approval is highly uncertain. the fda enforces good clinical practices (gcps) and other regulations through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, clinical research organizations (cros), principal investigators, and trial sites. if we or any of the third parties conducting our clinical studies are determined to have failed to fully comply with gcps, the study protocol or applicable regulations, the clinical data generated in those studies may be deemed unreliable. this could result in non-approval of our product candidates by the fda, or we or the fda may decide to conduct additional audits or require additional clinical studies, which would delay our development programs, require us to incur additional costs, and could substantially harm our business. before approving a new drug or biologic product, the fda requires that the facilities at which the product will be manufactured or advanced through the supply chain be in compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cgmp, requirements and regulations governing the shipment and storage of the product. manufacturing product candidates in compliance with these regulatory requirements is complex, time-consuming, and expensive. to be successful, our products must be manufactured for development, and following approval in commercial quantities, in compliance with regulatory requirements, and at competitive costs. if we or any of our product collaborators, or third-party manufacturers, product packagers, labelers, or other parties performing steps in the supply chain are unable to maintain regulatory compliance, the fda can impose regulatory sanctions, including, among other things, refusal to approve a pending application for a new drug or biologic product, or revocation of a pre-existing approval. as a result, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed. 20 in addition to the fda and other regulatory agency regulations in the united states, we are subject to a variety of foreign regulatory requirements governing human clinical trials, manufacturing, marketing and approval of drugs, and commercial sale and distribution of drugs in foreign countries. the foreign regulatory approval process and requirements include all of the risks associated with fda approval as well as country specific regulations, and actions by a regulatory agency in a country or region with respect to a product candidate may have an impact on the approval process for that product candidate in another country or region. whether or not we obtain fda approval for a product in the united states, we must obtain approval of the product by the comparable regulatory authorities in foreign countries before we can conduct clinical trials of or market that product or any other product in those countries. clinical trials required for our product candidates and new indications of our marketed products are expensive and time-consuming, and their outcome is highly uncertain. if any of our drug trials are delayed or yield unfavorable results, regulatory approval for our product candidates or new indications of our marketed products may be delayed or become unobtainable. as described above, we must conduct extensive testing of our product candidates and new indications of our marketed products before we can obtain regulatory approval to market and sell them. we need to conduct both preclinical animal testing and human clinical trials. conducting these trials is a lengthy, time-consuming, and expensive process. these tests and trials may not achieve favorable results for many reasons, including, among others, failure of the product candidate to demonstrate safety or efficacy, the development of serious or life-threatening adverse events (or side effects) caused by or connected with exposure to the product candidate, difficulty in enrolling and maintaining subjects in the clinical trial, lack of sufficient supplies of the product candidate or comparator drug, and the failure of clinical investigators, trial monitors, contractors, consultants, or trial subjects to comply with the trial plan, protocol, or applicable regulations related to gcps. a clinical trial may fail because it did not include and retain a sufficient number of patients to detect the endpoint being measured or reach statistical significance. a clinical trial may also fail because the dose(s) of the investigational drug included in the trial were either too low or too high to determine the optimal effect of the investigational drug in the disease setting. we will need to reevaluate any drug candidate that does not test favorably and either conduct new trials, which are expensive and time consuming, or abandon that drug development program. the failure of clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of our clinical candidates for the desired indication(s) would preclude the successful development of those candidates for such indication(s), in which event our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed. successful development of our current and future product candidates is uncertain. only a small minority of all research and development programs ultimately result in commercially successful drugs. we are testing zaltrap and eylea in a number of late-stage clinical trials in various indications and arcalyst for the prevention of gout flares in patients initiating uric acid-lowering drug therapy. clinical trials may not demonstrate statistically sufficient effectiveness and safety to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for these product candidates in these indications. in a number of instances, we have terminated the development of product candidates due to a lack of or only modest effectiveness. moreover, even if we obtain positive results from preclinical testing or clinical trials, we may not achieve the same success in future trials. many companies in the biopharmaceutical industry, including our company, have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, even after promising results have been obtained in earlier trials. in april 2011 we announced that our phase 3 velour trial of zaltrap met its primary endpoint of improving overall survival in the treatment of patients with previously treated mcrc. based upon these positive results, we and sanofi submitted regulatory applications for marketing approval to the fda and ema. in january 2012, roche announced that a phase 3 trial of avastin (bevacizumab) had met the primary endpoint of overall survival in mcrc in patients who had previously received avastin with standard chemotherapy. the positive results of this trial in a similar patient population could impact the potential commercial opportunity for zaltrap in mcrc. zaltrap is also in a phase 3 clinical trial in combination with a standard chemotherapy regimen for the treatment of first-line androgen independent prostate cancer. we do not have proof of concept data from early-stage, double-blind, controlled clinical trials that zaltrap will be safe or effective in this cancer setting. in march 2010, genentech announced that a phase 3 trial of avastin , in combination with chemotherapy in men with prostate cancer, did not meet its primary endpoint. this trial had a very similar design to our ongoing phase 3 trial of zaltrap in prostate cancer. we also reported positive phase 3 trial results with eylea in crvo after six months of treatment and, based on these results, have submitted a supplemental bla filing to the fda for marketing approval in the united states of eylea in crvo. under pdufa, we were granted a target date for an fda decision on our eylea in crvo supplemental bla of september 23, 2012. however, this expected timing for an fda decision may not be met, and the fda may not grant such approval or such approval may be substantially delayed. the fda could also require us to provide additional clinical data in connection with this application. there can be no assurance that we will receive regulatory approval for eylea in crvo. 21 we also reported positive results of a phase 2 trial of eylea for the treatment of dme and that we have initiated a phase 3 program in that indication. a number of other potential new drugs and biologics which showed promising results in phase 1 and 2 clinical trials subsequently failed to establish sufficient safety and efficacy data to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, and this could occur with respect to subsequent clinical trials of eylea for the treatment of dme. based on the results of three phase 3 studies, we have submitted a supplemental bla filing to the fda seeking approval of arcalyst for the prevention of gout flares in patients initiating uric acid-lowering drug therapy and, under pdufa, we were granted a target date for an fda decision on our arcalyst supplemental bla of july 30, 2012. however, this expected timing for an fda decision may not be met, and the fda may not grant such approval or such approval may be substantially delayed. the fda could also require us to provide additional clinical data in connection with this application. for example, in june 2011, following two positive phase 3 trials, the arthritis advisory committee of the fda, voted to recommend against approval in a gout indication for ilaris (canikinumab), novartis il-1 inhibitor which works through a similar mechanism as arcalyst and, in august 2011, novartis received a complete response letter from the fda requesting additional information, including clinical data to evaluate the benefit-risk profile of ilaris in refractory patients. many of our clinical trials are conducted under the oversight of idmcs. these independent oversight bodies are made up of external experts who review the progress of ongoing clinical trials, including available safety and efficacy data, and make recommendations concerning a trial continuation, modification, or termination based on interim, unblinded data. any of our ongoing clinical trials may be discontinued or amended in response to recommendations made by responsible idmcs based on their review of such interim trial results. for example, in september 2009, a phase 3 trial that was evaluating zaltrap as a first-line treatment for metastic pancreatic cancer in combination with gemcitabine was discontinued at the recommendation of an idmc after a planned analysis of interim efficacy data determined that the trial would not meet its efficacy endpoint. the recommended termination of any of our ongoing late-stage clinical trials by an idmc could negatively impact the future development of our product candidate(s), and our business may be materially harmed. we are studying our antibody candidates in a wide variety of indications in clinical trials. many of these trials are exploratory studies designed to evaluate the safety profile of these compounds and to identify what diseases and uses, if any, are best suited for these product candidates. these product candidates may not demonstrate the requisite efficacy and/or safety profile to support continued development for some or all of the indications that are being, or are planned to be, studied, which would diminish our clinical pipeline and could negatively affect our future prospects and the value of our company. serious complications or side effects in connection with the use of our products and in clinical trials for our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products could cause our regulatory approvals to be revoked or limited or lead to delay or discontinuation of development of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, which could severely harm our business. during the conduct of clinical trials, patients report changes in their health, including illnesses, injuries, and discomforts, to their study doctor. often, it is not possible to determine whether or not the drug candidate being studied caused these conditions. various illnesses, injuries, and discomforts have been reported from time-to-time during clinical trials of our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products. it is possible that as we test our drug candidates or new indications in larger, longer, and more extensive clinical programs, or as use of these drugs becomes more widespread if they receive regulatory approval, illnesses, injuries, and discomforts that were observed in earlier trials, as well as conditions that did not occur or went undetected in previous trials, will be reported by patients. many times, side effects are only detectable after investigational drugs are tested in large scale, phase 3 clinical trials or, in some cases, after they are made available to patients after approval. if additional clinical experience indicates that any of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products has many side effects or causes serious or life-threatening side effects, the development of the product candidate may fail or be delayed, or if the product candidate has received regulatory approval such approval may be revoked, which would severely harm our business. zaltrap is being studied for the potential treatment of certain types of cancer and eylea is being studied in diseases of the eye in addition to wet amd. there are many potential safety concerns associated with significant blockade of vegf that may limit our ability to successfully develop zaltrap and eylea in each of the indications for which we are studying these product candidates. these serious and potentially life-threatening risks, based on clinical and preclinical experience of vegf inhibitors, include bleeding, intestinal perforation, hypertension, proteinuria, congestive heart failure, heart attack, and stroke. in addition, patients given infusions of any protein, including zaltrap delivered through intravenous administration, may develop severe hypersensitivity reactions or infusion reactions. other vegf blockers have reported side effects that became evident only after large scale trials or after marketing approval when large numbers of patients were treated. there are risks inherent in the intravitreal administration of drugs like eylea , which can cause injury to the eye and other complications. for example, in our phase 3 trials of eylea in wet amd, the most frequent ocular adverse events were conjunctival hemorrhage, macular degeneration, eye pain, retinal hemorrhage, and vitreous floaters. these and other complications or side effects could harm the development and/or commercialization of zaltrap for the treatment of cancer or eylea for the treatment of diseases of the eye. 22 as more patients begin to use arcalyst if it receives regulatory approval for the prevention of gout flares in patients initiating uric acid-lowering therapy, and to the extent it is tested in new disease settings, new risks and side effects associated with arcalyst may be discovered, and risks previously viewed as inconsequential could be determined to be significant. like cytokine antagonists such as ilaris (canakinumab), a registered trademark of novartis, kineret (anakinra) and enbrel (etanercept), registered trademarks of amgen, and remicade (infliximab) a registered trademark of centocor ortho biotech, arcalyst affects the immune defense system of the body by blocking some of its functions. therefore, arcalyst may interfere with the body ability to fight infections. as noted above, in june 2011, following two positive phase 3 trials, the arthritis advisory committee of the fda voted to recommend against approval in a gout indication for ilaris , novartis il-1 inhibitor which works through a similar mechanism as arcalyst and, in august 2011, novartis received a complete response letter from the fda requesting additional information, including clinical data to evaluate the benefit-risk profile of ilaris in refractory patients. treatment with kineret , a medication that works through the inhibition of il-1, has been associated with an increased risk of serious infections, and serious, life threatening infections have been reported in patients taking arcalyst . these or other complications or side effects could cause regulatory authorities to revoke approvals of arcalyst for the treatment of caps or deny the approval of arcalyst for the prevention of gout flares in patients initiating uric acid-lowering treatment or other disease settings. alternatively, we may be required to conduct additional clinical trials, make changes in the labeling of our product, or limit or abandon our efforts to develop arcalyst in new disease settings. any such side effects may also result in a reduction, or even the elimination, of sales of arcalyst in the current or future approved indications. we are studying regn475, a fully human monoclonal antibody to ngf, in a variety of pain indications, including osteoarthritis of the knee. in december 2010, we were informed by the fda that a case confirmed as avascular necrosis of a joint was seen in another company anti-ngf program. the fda believes this case, which follows previously-reported cases of joint replacements in patients on an anti-ngf drug candidate being developed by another pharmaceutical company, provides evidence to suggest a class-effect and placed regn475 on clinical hold. the fda arthritis advisory committee is scheduled for march 12, 2012 to discuss possible safety issues related to anti-ngf compounds. there are currently no ongoing trials with regn475 that are either enrolling or treating patients. our product candidates in development are recombinant proteins that could cause an immune response, resulting in the creation of harmful or neutralizing antibodies against the therapeutic protein. in addition to the safety, efficacy, manufacturing, and regulatory hurdles faced by our product candidates, the administration of recombinant proteins frequently causes an immune response, resulting in the creation of antibodies against the therapeutic protein. the antibodies can have no effect or can totally neutralize the effectiveness of the protein, or require that higher doses be used to obtain a therapeutic effect. in some cases, the antibody can cross react with the patient own proteins, resulting in an auto-immune type disease. whether antibodies will be created can often not be predicted from preclinical or clinical experiments, and their detection or appearance is often delayed, so neutralizing antibodies may be detected at a later date, in some cases even after pivotal clinical trials have been completed. we may be unable to formulate or manufacture our product candidates in a way that is suitable for clinical or commercial use, which would delay or prevent continued development of such candidates and/or receipt of regulatory approval or commercial sale, which could materially harm our business. if we are unable to continue to develop suitable product formulations or manufacturing processes to support large scale clinical testing of our product candidates, including our antibody candidates, we may be unable to supply necessary materials for our clinical trials, which would delay or prevent the development of our product candidates. similarly, if we are unable, directly or through our collaborators or third parties, to supply sufficient quantities of our products or develop formulations of our product candidates suitable for commercial use, we will be unable to obtain regulatory approval for those product candidates. risks related to commercialization of eylea for the treatment of wet amd we are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight with respect to eylea for the treatment of wet amd. if we fail to maintain regulatory compliance for eylea , we may lose marketing approval, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. 23 eylea is currently approved for treatment of wet amd in the united states and bayer healthcare is seeking approval in other countries. we are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations with respect to eylea for the treatment of wet amd in the united states, and, if approved outside the united states, commercialization of eylea will be subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight in those countries where approval is obtained as well. if we fail to maintain regulatory compliance for eylea for the treatment of wet amd, we may lose marketing approval, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. failure to comply may also subject us to sanctions, product recalls, or withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications. see also if we fail to meet the stringent requirements of governmental regulation in the manufacture of drug products or product candidates, we could incur substantial remedial costs, delays in the development or approval of our product candidates and/or in their commercial launch if they obtain regulatory approval, and a reduction in sales. serious complications or side effects in connection with the use of eylea could materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. there are risks inherent in intravitreal injections, including with eylea , such as intraocular inflammation, sterile and culture positive endophthalmitis, corneal decomposition, retinal detachment, retinal tear, and other side effects, all of which are reported from time to time to the fda. serious complications or serious, unexpected side effects in connection with the use of eylea could materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. our regulatory approval for sales of eylea is limited to the treatment of wet amd and is limited to sales in the united states. if we don't receive approval for eylea for other indications, or if approvals are not obtained for sales in other countries, sales and profits will be limited. we have received regulatory approval for sale of eylea for the treatment of wet amd only in the united states. if we do not receive approval for eylea for other uses, or if approvals for sales in other countries are not obtained, sales will be limited and our potential for profits will be limited. as a result, our business, prospects, results of operations, and financial condition would be materially impacted. our sales of eylea for the treatment of wet amd are dependent on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third party payers, and changes to such reimbursement may materially harm our sales and potential revenue and harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. our current sales in the united states of eylea for the treatment of wet amd are dependent, in part, on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payers, including government programs such as medicare and medicaid and private payer healthcare and insurance programs. if approved for sale in other countries, such sales will be dependent, in part, on similar programs in these countries. in the united states, there is an increased focus from the federal government and others on analyzing the impact of various regulatory programs on the federal deficit, which could result in increased pressure on federal programs to reduce costs, including limiting federal healthcare expenditures. economic pressure on state budgets may also have a similar impact. a reduction in the availability or extent of reimbursement from u.s. government programs could have a material adverse effect on the sales of eylea . since eylea for the treatment of wet amd is too expensive for most patients to afford without health insurance coverage, if adequate coverage and reimbursement by third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid in the united states, is not available, our ability to successfully commercialize eylea will be materially adversely impacted. our sales and potential profits and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be materially harmed. see also " the successful commercialization of eylea for the treatment of wet amd as well as our late-stage product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if approved, will depend on obtaining coverage and reimbursement for use of these products from third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid in the united states, and these payers may not agree to cover or adequately reimburse for use of our products or may do so at levels that make our products uncompetitive and/or unprofitable, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition ." the status of a j-code for eylea could also affect reimbursement. j-codes are permanent reimbursement codes maintained by centers for medicare and medicaid services (cms) that are a component of the healthcare common procedure coding system (hcpcs), and are typically used to report injectable drugs that ordinarily cannot be self-administered. we do not currently have a j-code for eylea , although we anticipate assignment of a j-code for eylea in january 2013. without a unique j-code identifier, eylea must be billed using a non-specific miscellaneous j-code. since such codes may be used for a wide variety of products, health plans may have more difficulty determining the actual product used and billed for the patient. as a result, these claims must often be submitted with additional information and manually processed, which can create delays in claims processing times as well as increasing the likelihood for claim errors. 24 the commercial success of eylea currently being marketed for the treatment of wet amd is subject to strong competition. the market for eye disease products is very competitive. novartis and genentech are collaborating on the commercialization and further development of a vegf antibody fragment, lucentis for the treatment of wet amd, crvo, dme, and other eye indications. lucentis was approved by the fda in june 2006 for the treatment of wet amd and in june 2010 for the treatment of macular edema following retinal vein occlusion (rvo), crvo, and branch retinal vein occlusion (brvo). lucentis was also approved by the ema for wet amd in january 2007 and for dme in january 2011. many other companies are working on the development of product candidates for the potential treatment of wet amd and dme including those that act by blocking vegf and vegf receptors, as well as small interfering ribonucleic acids (sirnas) that modulate gene expression. in addition, ophthalmologists are using off-label, with success for the treatment of wet amd, dme, and rvo, third-party repackaged versions of genentech approved vegf antagonist, avastin . the relatively low cost of therapy with avastin in patients with wet amd presents a significant competitive challenge in this indication. the national eye institute (nei) and others are conducting long-term, controlled clinical trials comparing lucentis to avastin in the treatment of wet amd. one-year data from the catt were reported in april 2011 and indicated that avastin dosed monthly was non-inferior to lucentis dosed monthly in the primary efficacy endpoint of mean visual acuity gain at 52 weeks. avastin is also being evaluated in eye diseases in trials that have been initiated in the united kingdom, canada, brazil, mexico, germany, israel, and other countries. it may be difficult for eylea in this or other eye indications for which it may be approved to compete against lucentis and off-label use of avastin because doctors and patients have had significant experience using these medicines. moreover, the recently reported results of the catt study, combined with the relatively low cost of avastin in treating patients with wet amd, may well exacerbate the competitive challenge which eylea will face in this or other eye indications for which it may be approved. in addition, while we believe that zaltrap would not be well tolerated if administered directly to the eye, if zaltrap is approved for the treatment of certain cancers, there is a risk that third parties will attempt to repackage zaltrap for off-label use and sale for the treatment of wet amd and other diseases of the eye, which would present a potential low-cost competitive threat to eylea for wet amd or other eye indications. see also the commercial success of eylea currently being marketed for the treatment of wet amd, and for our other product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if any are approved for marketing, is highly uncertain given their method of administration, and because our competitors have received approval for and may be marketing products with a similar mechanism of action or may enter the marketplace with better or lower cost drugs. risks related to intellectual property and market exclusivity if we cannot protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets or our patents are insufficient to protect our proprietary rights, our business and competitive position will be harmed. our business requires using sensitive and proprietary technology and other information that we protect as trade secrets. we seek to prevent improper disclosure of these trade secrets through confidentiality agreements. if our trade secrets are improperly disclosed, by our own employees, our collaborators or otherwise, it would help our competitors and adversely affect our business. we will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our rights are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. the patent position of biotechnology companies, including our company, involves complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, enforceability cannot be predicted with certainty. our patents may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented. patent applications filed outside the united states may be challenged by third parties who file an opposition. such opposition proceedings are increasingly common in the european union and are costly to defend. we have pending patent applications in the european patent office and it is likely that we will need to defend patent applications from third-party challengers from time to time in the future. patent applications filed in the united states may also be challenged by third parties who file a request for post-grant review under the america invents act of 2011, beginning on september 16, 2012. we expect that post-grant review proceedings will become common in the united states and will be costly to defend. we have pending patent applications in the united states patent and trademark office and it is likely that we will need to defend patent applications from third-party challengers from time to time in the future. our patent rights may not provide us with a proprietary position or competitive advantages against competitors. furthermore, even if the outcome is favorable to us, the enforcement of our intellectual property rights can be extremely expensive and time consuming. we may be restricted in our development, manufacturing, and/or commercialization activities by, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed, third-party patents or other proprietary rights, and the costs and expenses of ongoing patent litigation have been and will likely continue to be significant. 25 our commercial success depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of third parties. other parties may allege that they have blocking patents to our products in clinical development or even to products that have received regulatory approval and are being or have been commercialized, either because they claim to hold proprietary rights to the composition of a product or the way it is manufactured or used. moreover, other parties may allege that they have blocking patents to antibody products made using our velocimmune technology, either because of the way the antibodies are discovered or produced or because of a proprietary composition covering an antibody or the antibody target. we are aware of issued patents and pending patent applications owned by genentech that claim certain chimeric vegf receptors. we do not believe that zaltrap or eylea infringe any valid claim in these patents or patent applications. we are involved in five patent litigations with genentech, two in the united states and three in europe. in november 2010, we commenced a lawsuit against genentech in the u.s. district court for the southern district of new york (the court), seeking a declaratory judgment that no activities relating to our vegf trap infringe any valid claim of certain genentech patents referred to as the davis-smyth patents (the first davis-smyth case). genentech answered the complaint and asserted counterclaims that our prior or planned activities relating to vegf trap have infringed or will infringe claims of four of the five davis-smyth patents and requested a judgment against us for damages, including for willful infringement, and other relief as the court deems appropriate. on december 31, 2011, we entered into a non-exclusive license and partial settlement agreement (the agreement ) with genentech that covers making, using, and selling eylea in the united states for the prevention and treatment of human eye diseases and disorders in the united states. under the agreement, we received a non-exclusive license to the davis-smyth patents, and certain other technology patents owned or co-owned by genentech. the agreement does not cover any non-u.s. patent rights or non-u.s. patent disputes, and does not cover any use of aflibercept other than for prevention and treatment of human eye diseases and disorders in the united states. the first davis-smyth case is continuing with respect to matters not covered by the agreement. the agreement provides for us to make payments to genentech based on u.s. sales of eylea through may 7, 2016, the date the davis-smyth patents expire. we will make a lump-sum payment of $60 million once cumulative u.s. sales of eylea reach $400 million. we will also pay royalties of 4.75% on cumulative u.s. sales of eylea between $400 million and $3 billion and 5.5% on any cumulative u.s. sales of eylea over $3 billion. as a result of the agreement, on january 17, 2012 genentech filed a second amended answer and counterclaim in the first davis-smyth case, in which it amended its counterclaims alleging infringement of four of the five davis-smyth patents. on december 23, 2011, genentech initiated a related case in the court against regeneron and sanofi alleging infringement of four of the five davis-smyth patents by activities relating to vegf trap (but excluding eylea ) (the second davis-smyth case). as in the first davis-smyth case, in the new complaint genentech requests a judgment against us for damages, including for willful infringement, and other relief as the court deems appropriate. we believe genentech's claims in the first davis smyth case and the second davis smyth case are without merit and intend to continue to defend against all of genentech remaining claims vigorously. however, it is possible that there could be an adverse determination or judgment in either or both cases that would materially harm our business by requiring us to seek a license for matters not covered by the agreement, which may not be available at all or on reasonable terms, or precluding the manufacture, further development, or sale of eylea outside the united states or zaltrap , or resulting in a damage award. in addition, irrespective of the outcome of the davis-smyth cases, we have incurred and will likely continue to incur significant costs and expenses associated with them, which have negatively affected, and will likely continue to negatively affect, our results of operations. an adverse determination in any of the proceedings described herein may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, and financial condition. we have initiated patent-related actions against genentech in germany, the united kingdom, and italy, and may initiate other actions in other countries outside the united states, which could have similar or other adverse outcomes that would materially harm our business and which, irrespective of the outcomes, may also entail significant costs and expenses. we are aware of patents and pending applications owned by roche that claim antibodies to il-6r and methods of treating rheumatoid arthritis with such antibodies. we are developing sarilumab, an antibody to il-6r, for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. although we do not believe that sarilumab infringes any valid claim in these patents or patent applications, roche could initiate a lawsuit for patent infringement and assert its patents are valid and cover sarilumab. we are aware of a u.s. patent jointly owned by genentech and city of hope relating to the production of recombinant antibodies in host cells. we currently produce our antibody product candidates using recombinant antibodies from host cells and may choose to produce additional antibody product candidates in this manner. neither arcalyst , zaltrap , nor eylea are recombinant antibodies. if any of our antibody product candidates are produced in a manner subject to valid claims in the genentech patent, then we may need to obtain a license from genentech, should one be available. genentech has licensed this patent to several different companies under confidential license agreements. if we desire a license for any of our antibody product candidates and are unable to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms or at all, we may be restricted in our ability to use genentech techniques to make recombinant antibodies in or to import them into the united states. 26 further, we are aware of a number of other third-party patent applications that, if granted with claims as currently drafted, may cover our current or planned activities. it could be determined that our products and/or actions in manufacturing or selling our product candidates infringe such patents. patent holders in addition to genentech could assert claims against us for damages and seek to prevent us from manufacturing, selling, or developing our drug candidates, and a court may find that we are infringing validly issued patents of third parties. in the event that the manufacture, use, or sale of any of our drug candidates, including eylea or our other late-stage product candidates, infringes on the patents or violates other proprietary rights of third parties, we may be prevented from pursuing product development, manufacturing, and commercialization of those drugs and may be required to pay costly damages. such a result may materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. in any event, legal disputes are likely to be costly and time consuming to defend. we seek to obtain licenses to patents when, in our judgment, such licenses are needed or advisable. if any licenses are required, we may not be able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. the failure to obtain any such license could prevent us from developing or commercializing any one or more of our product candidates, which could severely harm our business. loss or limitation of patent rights, and new regulatory pathways for biosimilar competition, could reduce the duration of market exclusivity for our products. in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, the majority of an innovative product commercial value is usually realized during the period in which it has market exclusivity. in the united states and some other countries, when market exclusivity expires and generic versions of a product are approved and marketed, there usually are very substantial and rapid declines in the product sales. if our late-stage product candidates or other clinical candidates are approved for marketing in the u.s or elsewhere, market exclusivity for those products will generally be based upon patent rights and/or certain regulatory forms of exclusivity. as described above under " if we cannot protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets or our patents are insufficient to protect our proprietary rights, our business and competitive position will be harmed ", the scope and enforceability of our patent rights may vary from country to country. the failure to obtain patent and other intellectual property rights, or limitations on the use, or the loss, of such rights could be material to us. absent patent protection or regulatory exclusivity for our products, it is possible, both in the united states and elsewhere, that generic and/or biosimilar versions of those products may be approved and marketed which would likely result in substantial and rapid reductions in revenues from sales of those products. under the federal patient protection and affordable care act, or ppaca, enacted in 2010, there is now a new, abbreviated path in the united states for regulatory approval of biosimilar versions of biological products. the ppaca provides a regulatory mechanism that allows for fda approval of biologic drugs that are similar to (but not generic copies of) innovative drugs on the basis of less extensive data than is required by a full bla. under this new regulation, an application for approval of a biosimilar may be filed four years after approval of the innovator product. however, qualified innovative biological products will receive 12 years of regulatory exclusivity, meaning that the fda may not approve a biosimilar version until 12 years after the innovative biological product was first approved by the fda. however, the term of regulatory exclusivity may not remain at 12 years in the united states and could be shortened. the increased likelihood of biosimilar competition has increased the risk of loss of innovators market exclusivity. due to this risk, and uncertainties regarding patent protection, if our late-stage product candidates or other clinical candidates are approved for marketing, it is not possible to predict the length of market exclusivity for a particular product with certainty based solely on the expiration of the relevant patent(s) or the current forms of regulatory exclusivity. it is also not possible to predict changes in united states regulatory law that might reduce biological product regulatory exclusivity. the loss of market exclusivity for a product would likely materially and negatively affect revenues from product sales of that product and thus our financial results and condition. risks related to manufacturing and supply we rely on limited internal and contracted manufacturing and supply chain capacity, which could result in our being unable to continue to successfully commercialize eylea and to commercialize our other product candidates or other indications for our marketed products if they receive regulatory approval and are unable to continue to develop our clinical candidates. 27 our manufacturing facility would be inadequate to produce the active pharmaceutical ingredients of (a) eylea , zaltrap , and arcalyst for the treatment of gout flares in sufficient commercial quantities if these late-stage product candidates were all to receive regulatory approval, and (b) our earlier stage product candidates in sufficient clinical quantities if our clinical pipeline advances as planned. in addition to expanding our internal capacity, we intend to rely on our corporate collaborators, as well as contract manufacturers, to produce commercial quantities of drug material needed for commercialization of our products to the extent such quantities are not manufactured at our own facility. we rely entirely on third-parties and our collaborators for filling and finishing services. generally, in order for other parties to perform any step in the manufacturing and supply chain, we must transfer technology to the other party which can be time consuming and may not be successfully accomplished without considerable cost and expense, or at all. we will have to depend on these other parties to perform effectively on a timely basis and to comply with regulatory requirements. if for any reason they are unable to do so, and as a result we are unable to directly or through such third parties manufacture and supply sufficient commercial quantities of our products on acceptable terms, or if we should encounter delays or other difficulties in our relationships with our corporate collaborators, third-party manufacturers, or other parties involved in our supply chain which adversely affect the timely manufacture and supply of our products, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed. expanding our manufacturing capacity will be costly and we may be unsuccessful in doing so in a timely manner, which could delay or prevent the launch and successful commercialization of our late-stage product candidates or other indications for our marketed products if they are approved for marketing and could jeopardize our current and future clinical development programs. expanding our manufacturing capacity to supply commercial quantities of the active pharmaceutical ingredients for our late-stage product candidates if they are approved for marketing, and to supply clinical drug material to support the continued growth of our clinical programs, will require substantial additional expenditures, and we will need to hire and train significant numbers of employees and managerial personnel to staff our manufacturing and supply chain operations. start-up costs can be large and scale-up entails significant risks related to process development and manufacturing yields. in addition, we may face difficulties or delays in developing or acquiring the necessary production equipment and technology to manufacture sufficient quantities of our product candidates at reasonable costs and in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. the fda and analogous foreign regulatory authorities must determine that our existing and any expanded manufacturing facilities comply, or continue to comply, with cgmp requirements for both clinical and commercial production and license them, or continue to license them, accordingly, and such facilities must also comply with applicable environmental, safety, and other governmental permitting requirements. we may not successfully expand or establish sufficient manufacturing capabilities or manufacture our products economically or in compliance with cgmps and other regulatory requirements, and we and our collaborators may not be able to build or procure additional capacity in the required timeframe to meet commercial demand for our late-stage product candidates if they receive regulatory approval, and to continue to meet the requirements of our clinical programs. this would interfere with our efforts to successfully commercialize eylea , zaltrap , and arcalyst for the prevention of gout flares in patients initiating uric acid-lowering treatment if they receive regulatory approval, and could also delay or require us to discontinue one or more of our clinical development programs. as a result, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition could be materially harmed. our ability to manufacture our products may be impaired if any of our manufacturing activities, or the activities of third parties involved in our manufacture and supply chain, are found to infringe third-party patents. our ability to continue to manufacture arcalyst , eylea , and zaltrap in our rensselaer, new york facilities, or to utilize third parties to produce our products or perform fill/finish services or other steps in our manufacture and supply chain, depends on our and their ability to operate without infringing the patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. other parties may allege that our manufacturing activities, or the activities of third parties involved in our manufacture and supply chain, infringe patents or other intellectual property rights. a judicial decision in favor of one or more parties making such allegations could preclude the manufacture of our products where those intellectual property rights apply which could materially harm our business, results of operations, and prospects. if sales of eylea for the treatment of wet amd do not meet the levels currently expected, or if the launch of our late-stage product candidates or new indications of our marketed products, or any of our clinical programs, are delayed or discontinued, we may face costs related to unused capacity at our manufacturing facilities and at the facilities of third parties. 28 we have large-scale manufacturing operations in rensselaer, new york. we use our facilities to produce bulk product of arcalyst for the treatment of caps, bulk product of eylea for the treatment of wet amd and clinical and preclinical candidates for ourselves and our collaborations, and plan to use such facilities to produce bulk product for commercial supply of our late-stage product candidates or new indications of our marketed products if they are approved for marketing. if our clinical candidates are discontinued or their clinical development is delayed, if the launch of any of our late-stage product candidates or new indications or our marketed products is delayed or does not occur, or if such products are launched and subsequently recalled or marketing approval is rescinded, we may have to absorb one hundred percent of related overhead costs and inefficiencies, as well as similar costs of third-party contract manufacturers performing services for us. third-party service or supply failures, or other failures, business interruptions, or natural disasters affecting our manufacturing facilities in rensselaer, new york or the facilities of any other party participating in the supply chain, would adversely affect our ability to supply our products. we manufacture all of our bulk drug materials at our manufacturing facilities in rensselaer, new york. we would be unable to manufacture these materials if our rensselaer facilities were to cease production due to regulatory requirements or action, business interruptions, labor shortages or disputes, contaminations, fire, natural disasters, or other problems at the facilities. also, certain raw materials necessary for the manufacture and formulation of arcalyst and eylea and of our product candidates, including zaltrap , are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. in addition, we rely on certain third parties to perform filling, finishing, distribution, laboratory testing, and other services related to the manufacture of arcalyst and our product candidates. we would be unable to obtain these raw materials or services for an indeterminate period of time if any of these third parties were to cease or interrupt production or otherwise fail to supply these materials, products, or services to us for any reason, including due to regulatory requirements or action, adverse financial developments at or affecting the supplier, failure by the supplier to comply with cgmps, business interruptions, or labor shortages or disputes. this, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our ability to manufacture or supply arcalyst for the treatment of caps and eylea for the treatment of wet amd and to manufacture and supply commercial quantities of eylea for other ophthalmologic diseases, zaltrap , and arcalyst for the prevention of gout flares if they receive regulatory approval, which could materially and adversely affect our business and future prospects. certain of the raw materials required in the manufacture and the formulation of our product candidates may be derived from biological sources, including mammalian tissues, bovine serum, and human serum albumin. there are certain european regulatory restrictions on using these biological source materials. if we are required to substitute for these sources to comply with european regulatory requirements, our clinical development activities may be delayed or interrupted. if we fail to meet the stringent requirements of governmental regulation in the manufacture of drug products or product candidates, we could incur substantial remedial costs, delays in the development or approval of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products and/or in their commercial launch if they obtain regulatory approval, and a reduction in sales. we and our third-party providers are required to maintain compliance with cgmp, and are subject to inspections by the fda or comparable agencies in other jurisdictions to confirm such compliance. changes of suppliers or modifications of methods of manufacturing may require amending our application(s) to the fda or such comparable foreign agencies and acceptance of the change by the fda or such comparable foreign agencies prior to release of product(s). because we produce multiple product candidates at our facility in rensselaer, new york, including arcalyst , eylea , and zaltrap , there are increased risks associated with cgmp compliance. our inability, or the inability of our third-party fill/finish or other service providers, to demonstrate ongoing cgmp compliance could require us to engage in lengthy and expensive remediation efforts, withdraw or recall product, halt or interrupt clinical trials, and/or interrupt commercial supply of any marketed products, and could also delay or prevent our obtaining regulatory approval for our late-stage product candidates or new indications for our marketed products. any delay, interruption, or other issue that arises in the manufacture, fill/finish, packaging, or storage of any drug product or product candidate as a result of a failure of our facilities or the facilities or operations of third parties to pass any regulatory agency inspection or maintain cgmp compliance could significantly impair our ability to develop, obtain approval for, and successfully commercialize our products, which would substantially harm our business and prospects. any finding of non-compliance could also increase our costs, cause us to delay the development of our product candidates, result in delay in our obtaining, or our not obtaining, regulatory approval of product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, and cause us to lose revenue from any marketed products, which could be seriously detrimental to our business, prospects, and financial condition. 29 risks related to commercialization of products we may be unsuccessful in continuing our commercialization of eylea for the treatment of wet amd or commercializing our late stage product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if approved, which would materially delay or prevent our achieving profitability. even if clinical trials demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of any of our product candidates for a specific disease and the necessary regulatory approvals are obtained, the commercial success of any of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products will depend upon, among other things, their acceptance by patients, the medical community, and third-party payers and on our and our collaborators' ability to successfully manufacture and commercialize those products or new indications. even if we obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates or new indications, if they are not successfully commercialized, we will not be able to recover the significant investment we have made in developing such products and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be severely harmed. in particular, we are in the early stages of commercialization and cannot be sure that eylea for the treatment of wet amd will be commercially successful in the pharmaceutical market. in addition to the challenges we face related to a company launching its first major commercial drug, as described in detail in the risk factor immediately below, we and bayer healthcare will face intense competition from lucentis and from off-label use of avastin , both of which have been on the market for a number of years. we expect that the initial commercial success of eylea for the treatment of wet amd will depend on many factors, including the following: the effectiveness of our and bayer healthcare's commercial strategies for the launch and marketing of eylea in and outside the united states, respectively, including pricing strategy and the effectiveness of efforts to obtain, and the timing of obtaining, adequate third-party reimbursements; maintaining and successfully monitoring commercial manufacturing arrangements for eylea with third parties who perform fill/finish or other steps in the manufacture of eylea to ensure that they meet our standards and those of regulatory authorities, including the fda, which extensively regulate and monitor pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities; our ability to meet the demand for commercial supplies of eylea ; our ability to effectively communicate to the marketplace the benefits of the dosing regimen of eylea of every 2 months after three initial monthly doses as compared to the monthly dosing regimen of lucentis , and the willingness of retinal specialists and patients to switch from lucentis or off-label use of avastin to eylea for the treatment of wet amd; the ability of patients, retinal specialists, and other providers to obtain and maintain sufficient coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors, including medicare and medicaid in the united states and other government and private payors in the united states and foreign jurisdictions; and the effect of new health care legislation currently being implemented in the united states. while we believe that eylea for the treatment of wet amd has a commercially competitive profile, we cannot predict whether ophthalmologists, particularly retinal specialists, and patients, will accept or utilize eylea . our and bayer healthcare's efforts to educate the relevant medical community and third-party payors regarding the benefits of eylea for the treatment of wet amd will require significant resources and may not be successful in achieving our objectives. if eylea is approved for marketing but does not achieve significant market acceptance for the treatment of wet amd, our ability to achieve profitability would be materially impaired or delayed. if we are unable to establish, and effectively deploy and manage , sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities in the applicable markets or to enter into agreements with third parties to do so, we will not generate our expected sales of eylea for treatment of wet amd or successfully launch and commercialize our late-stage product candidates or new indications for our marketed products if they receive regulatory approval, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. we currently sell eylea in the united states to three distributors and several specialty pharmacies. we currently sell arcalyst for the treatment of caps in the united states to two specialty pharmacies. under these distribution models, we enter into written contracts with our distributors and specialty pharmacies (collectively, our customers ), and our customers generally take physical delivery of product. for eylea , the distributors and specialty pharmacies generally sell the product directly to healthcare providers, whereas for arcalyst , the specialty pharmacies sell the product directly to patients. 30 we have established our own sales and marketing organization for eylea in the united states for the treatment of wet amd, and in anticipation of filing for and receiving regulatory approval to market and sell eylea in the united states for the treatment of crvo. however, we may be unsuccessful in achieving a successful commercialization of eylea in the united states, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. we will have to rely on a third party or devote significant resources to develop our own sales and marketing capabilities, and our distribution network, for arcalyst for patients with gout initiating uric acid-lowering drug therapy if it receives regulatory approval. if we are unable to obtain these capabilities, either by developing our own organizations or entering into agreements with others to provide these functions, even if arcalyst for the prevention of gout flares receives marketing approval, we will not be able to successfully launch and commercialize this product, which would also materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. we have limited experience in sales, marketing, or distribution of products in substantial commercial quantities or in establishing and managing the required infrastructure to do so, including large-scale information technology systems and a large-scale distribution network, and we may be unable to establish such infrastructure on a timely basis. to the extent we determine to utilize third parties to provide sales, marketing, or distribution capabilities for arcalyst for the prevention of gout flares or any of our other product candidates or new indications for marketed products if they receive regulatory approval, we may encounter difficulties in retaining such parties on acceptable terms. even if we hire qualified sales and marketing personnel, and establish the required infrastructure we need to support our objectives, or enter into marketing and distribution agreements with third parties on acceptable terms, we may not do so in an efficient manner or on a timely basis. we may not be able to correctly judge the size and experience of the sales and marketing force and the scale of distribution capabilities necessary to successfully market and sell in the united states eylea , arcalyst for the prevention of gout flares, or any of our other product candidates or new indications if they receive regulatory approval in the united states and as to which we retain sales and marketing responsibility in that market. establishing and maintaining sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities are expensive and time-consuming. our expenses associated with building up and maintaining a sales force and distribution capabilities may be disproportional, particularly in the near term, compared to the revenues we may be able to generate on sales in the united states of eylea or arcalyst for the prevention of gout flares. ultimately neither we nor our collaborators may be successful in commercializing eylea , zaltrap , arcalyst for the prevention of gout flares, or any of our other product candidates. under the terms of our collaboration agreement, sanofi has primary responsibility for sales, marketing, and distribution of zaltrap in cancer indications, should it be approved in the future by regulatory authorities for marketing. we currently have no sales, marketing, commercial, or distribution capabilities outside the united states . under the terms of our license and collaboration agreement with bayer healthcare, we will rely on bayer healthcare for sales, marketing, and distribution of eylea in countries outside the united states should it be approved for marketing in such countries. the commercial success of eylea currently being marketed for the treatment of wet amd, and for our other product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if any are approved for marketing, is highly uncertain given their method of administration, and because our competitors have received approval for and may be marketing products with a similar mechanism of action or may enter the marketplace with better or lower cost drugs. our product candidates are delivered either by intravenous infusion or by intravitreal or subcutaneous injections, which are generally less well received by patients than tablet or capsule delivery and this could adversely affect the commercial success of those products if they receive marketing approval. there is substantial competition in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries from biotechnology, pharmaceutical, and chemical companies. many of our competitors have substantially greater research, preclinical and clinical product development and manufacturing capabilities, and financial, marketing, and human resources than we do. our smaller competitors may also enhance their competitive position if they acquire or discover patentable inventions, form collaborative arrangements, or merge with large pharmaceutical companies. even if we achieve commercialization of our product candidates, our competitors have achieved, and may continue to achieve, product commercialization before our products are approved for marketing and sale. as previously noted, genentech has an approved vegf antagonist, avastin , on the market for treating certain cancers and many different pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are working to develop competing vegf antagonists, including novartis, amgen, imclone llc/eli lilly, pfizer, astrazeneca, and glaxosmithkline. some of these molecules are further along in development than zaltrap and may offer competitive advantages over our molecule. each of pfizer, onyx (together with its partner bayer healthcare), and glaxosmithkline are marketing and selling oral medications that target tumor cell growth and new vasculature formation that fuels the growth of tumors. the marketing approvals for genentech vegf antagonist, avastin , and their extensive, ongoing clinical development plan for avastin in other cancer indications, make it more difficult for us to enroll patients in clinical trials to support zaltrap for those indications and to obtain regulatory approval of zaltrap in those indications. this may delay or impair our ability to successfully develop and commercialize zaltrap for various cancer indications. in addition, even if zaltrap is approved for sale for the treatment of certain cancers, it will be difficult for our drug to compete against avastin and the fda approved kinase inhibitors, because doctors and patients will have significant experience using these medicines. in addition, an oral medication may be considerably less expensive for patients than a biologic medication, providing a competitive advantage to companies that market such products. 31 the market for eye disease products is also very competitive. novartis and genentech are collaborating on the commercialization and further development of a vegf antibody fragment, lucentis for the treatment of wet amd, crvo, dme, and other eye indications. lucentis was approved by the fda in june 2006 for the treatment of wet amd and in june 2010 for the treatment of macular edema following retinal vein occlusion (rvo), crvo, and branch retinal vein occlusion (brvo). lucentis was also approved by the ema for wet amd in january 2007 and for dme in january 2011. many other companies are working on the development of product candidates for the potential treatment of wet amd and dme including those that act by blocking vegf and vegf receptors, as well as small interfering ribonucleic acids (sirnas) that modulate gene expression. in addition, ophthalmologists are using off-label, with success for the treatment of wet amd, dme, and rvo, third-party repackaged versions of genentech approved vegf antagonist, avastin . the national eye institute (nei) and others are conducting long-term, controlled clinical trials comparing lucentis to avastin in the treatment of wet amd. one-year data from the comparison of age-related macular degeneration treatments trial (catt) were reported in april 2011 and indicated that avastin dosed monthly was non-inferior to lucentis dosed monthly in the primary efficacy endpoint of mean visual acuity gain at 52 weeks. it may be difficult for eylea in this or other eye indications for which it may be approved to compete against lucentis and off-label use of avastin because doctors and patients have had significant experience using these medicines. moreover, the recently reported results of the catt study, combined with the relatively low cost of avastin in treating patients with wet amd, may well exacerbate the competitive challenge which eylea will face in this or other eye indications for which it may be approved. in addition, while we believe that zaltrap would not be well tolerated if administered directly to the eye, if zaltrap is approved for the treatment of certain cancers, there is a risk that third parties will attempt to repackage zaltrap for off-label use and sale for the treatment of wet amd and other diseases of the eye, which would present a potential low-cost competitive threat to eylea for wet amd or other eye indications. the availability of highly effective fda approved tumor necrosis factors-antagonists (tnf-antagonists) such as enbrel , remicade , humira (adalimumab), a registered trademark of abbott laboratories, simponi (golimumab), a registered trademark of johnson &amp; johnson, the il-1 receptor antagonist kineret , ilaris (canakinumab), and other marketed therapies makes it more difficult to successfully develop and commercialize arcalyst in indications other than caps, and this is one of the reasons we discontinued the development of arcalyst in adult rheumatoid arthritis. in addition, even if arcalyst is ever approved for sale in indications where tnf-antagonists are approved, it will be difficult for our drug to compete against these fda approved tnf-antagonists because doctors and patients have had significant experience using these effective medicines. moreover, in such indications these approved therapeutics may offer competitive advantages over arcalyst , such as requiring fewer injections. there are both small molecules and antibodies in development by other companies that are designed to block the synthesis of il-1 or inhibit the signaling of il-1. for example, eli lilly, xoma (in collaboration with servier), and novartis are each developing antibodies to il-1 and both amgen and medimmune are developing antibodies to the il-1 receptor. in 2009, novartis received regulatory approval in the united states and europe for ilaris , a fully human anti-interleukin-il1 antibody, for the treatment of caps. ilaris is also in development for atherosclerosis and a number of other inflammatory diseases. novartis il-1 antibody and these other drug candidates could offer competitive advantages over arcalyst . for example, ilaris is dosed once every eight weeks compared to the once-weekly dosing regimen for arcalyst . the successful development and/or commercialization of these competing molecules could adversely affect sales of arcalyst for the treatment of caps and delay or impair our ability to commercialize arcalyst for indications other than caps. we are developing arcalyst for the prevention of gout flares in patients initiating uric acid-lowering therapy and have submitted a supplemental bla filing for u.s. regulatory approval in this indication. in january 2011, novartis announced that the results of two phase 3 studies with ilaris focused on reducing pain and preventing recurrent attacks or flares in patients with hard-to-treat gout were positive. novartis has also reported that regulatory filings for the use of ilaris in gouty arthritis have been completed in the european union in 2010 and in the united states in the first quarter of 2011, based on the results of these two phase 3 studies. ilaris is dosed less frequently for the treatment of caps, and if it is approved for the treatment of gout, it may be perceived by some physicians as offering competitive advantages over arcalyst , which would make it difficult for us to successfully commercialize arcalyst in that disease. 32 currently, inexpensive, oral therapies such as analgesics and other nsaids, are used as the standard of care to treat the symptoms of gout diseases. these established, inexpensive, orally delivered drugs may make it difficult for us to successfully commercialize arcalyst in these diseases. our earlier-stage clinical candidates in development are all fully human monoclonal antibodies, which were generated using our velocimmune technology. our antibody generation technologies and earlier-stage clinical candidates face competition from many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies using various technologies. numerous other companies are developing therapeutic antibody products. companies such as pfizer, johnson &amp; johnson, astrazeneca, amgen, biogen idec, novartis, genentech/roche, bristol-myers squib, abbott, and glaxosmithkline have generated therapeutic products that are currently in development or on the market that are derived from recombinant dna that comprise human antibody sequences. we are aware of several pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies actively engaged in the research and development of antibody products against targets that are also the targets of our early-stage product candidates. for example, pfizer, johnson &amp; johnson, and abbott are developing antibody product candidates against ngf. genentech/roche is marketing an antibody against il-6r (tocilizumab) for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, and several other companies, including centocor/johnson &amp; johnson, and bristol-myers squibb, have antibodies against il-6 in clinical development for this disease. glaxosmithkline, in partnership with oncomed pharmaceuticals, has a dll4 antibody in clinical development for the treatment of solid tumors. aerovance has two formulations of a biologic directed against il-4 in clinical development. amgen previously had an antibody against il-4r in clinical development for the treatment of asthma. we believe that several companies, including amgen and pfizer, have development programs for antibodies against pcsk9. amgen, pfizer, and astrazeneca have development programs underway for antibodies against ang2. if any of these or other competitors announces a successful clinical study involving a product that may be competitive with one of our product candidates or the grant of marketing approval by a regulatory agency for a competitive product, such developments may have an adverse effect on our business or future prospects. the successful commercialization of eylea for the treatment of wet amd as well as our late-stage product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if approved, will depend on obtaining coverage and reimbursement for use of these products from third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid in the united states, and these payers may not agree to cover or adequately reimburse for use of our products or may do so at levels that make our products uncompetitive and/or unprofitable, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results , and financial condition. our product candidates, if commercialized, may be significantly more expensive than traditional drug treatments. for example, we are developing arcalyst for the prevention of gout flares in patients initiating uric acid-lowering drug therapy. patients suffering from this gout indication are currently treated with inexpensive therapies, including nsaids. these existing treatment options are likely to be considerably less expensive and may be preferable to a biologic medication for some patients. our future revenues and profitability will be adversely affected in a material manner if united states and foreign governmental, private third-party insurers and payers, and other third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid, do not agree to defray or reimburse the cost of our products to the patients. if these entities do not provide coverage and reimbursement with respect to our products or provide an insufficient level of coverage and reimbursement, our products may be too costly for many patients to afford them, and physicians may not prescribe them. many third-party payers cover only selected drugs, making drugs that are not preferred by such payers more expensive for patients, and require prior authorization or failure on another type of treatment before covering a particular drug. in particular, payers may impose these obstacles to coverage on higher-priced drugs, as our product candidates are likely to be. government and other third-party payers are challenging the prices charged for healthcare products and increasingly limiting, and attempting to limit, both coverage and level of reimbursement for prescription drugs. in march 2010, the ppaca and a related reconciliation bill were enacted in the united states. this legislation imposes cost containment measures that are likely to adversely affect the amount of reimbursement for our future products. the full effects of this legislation are unknown at this time and will not be known until regulations and guidance are issued by cms and other federal and state agencies. further, in september 2011 the office of inspector general (oig) of the department of health and human services issued a report entitled review of medicare part b avastin and lucentis treatments for age-related macular degeneration in which the oig details possible savings to the medicare program by using off-label avastin rather than lucentis for the treatment of wet amd. some states are also considering legislation that would control the prices of drugs, and state medicaid programs are increasingly requesting manufacturers to pay supplemental rebates and requiring prior authorization by the state program for use of any drug for which supplemental rebates are not being paid. it is likely that federal and state legislatures and health agencies will continue to focus on additional health care reform in the future that will impose additional constraints on prices and reimbursements for our products. 33 since eylea for the treatment of wet amd and other eye diseases, zaltrap for oncology indications, and arcalyst for the prevention of gout flares will likely be too expensive for most patients to afford without health insurance coverage, if these products are unable to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement by third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid in the united states, our ability to successfully commercialize these products would be materially adversely impacted. the status of a j-code for our marketed products could also affect reimbursement. j-codes are permanent reimbursement codes maintained by cms that are a component of hcpcs, and are typically used to report injectable drugs that ordinarily cannot be self-administered. although we have a j-code for arcalyst , we do not currently have a j-code for eylea , although we anticipate assignment of a j-code for eylea in january 2013. without a unique j-code identifier, eylea must be billed using a non-specific miscellaneous j-code. since such codes may be used for a wide variety of products, health plans may have more difficulty determining the actual product used and billed for the patient. as a result, these claims must often be submitted with additional information and manually processed, which can create delays in claims processing times as well as increasing the likelihood for claim errors. third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid in the united states, may not cover and/or reimburse for these products at levels required for us to successfully commercialize these products. any limitation imposed by third-party payers on the use of our products if they are approved for marketing, any action or decision by cms or analogous foreign agencies or authorities which for any reason denies coverage or reimbursement for our products or provides coverage or reimbursement at levels that harm our products competitiveness or leads to lower prices for those products, will have a material negative effect on our ability to achieve profitability. in certain foreign countries, pricing, coverage, and level of reimbursement of prescription drugs are subject to governmental control, and we and our collaborators may be unable to obtain coverage, pricing, and/or reimbursement on terms that are favorable to us or necessary for us or our collaborators to successfully commercialize our products in those countries. in some foreign countries, the proposed pricing for a drug must be approved before it may be lawfully marketed. the requirements governing drug pricing vary widely from country to country. for example, the european union provides options for its member states to restrict the range of medicinal products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices of medicinal products for human use. a member state may approve a specific price for the medicinal product or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the medicinal product on the market. our results of operations may suffer if we or our collaborators are unable to market our products in foreign countries or if coverage and reimbursement for our products in foreign countries is limited or delayed. regulatory and litigation risks if the testing or use of our products harms people, we could be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims. the testing, manufacturing, marketing, and sale of drugs for use in people expose us to product liability risk. any informed consent or waivers obtained from people who enroll in our clinical trials may not protect us from liability or the cost of litigation. we may also be subject to claims by patients who use our approved products, arcalyst for the treatment of caps, or eylea for the treatment of wet amd, or eylea for other indications, zaltrap , or arcalyst for the prevention of gout flares if those product candidates receive regulatory approval and become commercially available, that they have been injured by a side effect associated with the drug. we may face product liability claims and be found responsible even if injury arises from the acts or omissions of our third-party fill/finish or other providers. our product liability insurance may not cover all potential liabilities or may not completely cover any liability arising from any such litigation. moreover, in the future we may not have access to liability insurance or be able to maintain our insurance on acceptable terms. if we market and sell approved products, in a way that violates federal or state healthcare laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. in addition to fda and related regulatory requirements, we are subject to health care fraud and abuse laws, such as the federal false claims act, the anti-kickback provisions of the federal social security act, and other state and federal laws and regulations. federal and state anti-kickback laws prohibit, among other things, payments or other remuneration to induce or reward someone to purchase, prescribe, endorse, or recommend a product that is reimbursed under federal or state healthcare programs. if we provide payments or other remuneration to a healthcare professional to induce the prescribing of our products, we could face liability under state and federal anti-kickback laws. federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, such as allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; reporting to pricing services inflated average wholesale prices that were then used by federal programs to set reimbursement rates; engaging in promotion for uses that the fda has not approved, known as off-label uses, that caused claims to be submitted to medicaid for non-covered off-label uses, and submitting inflated best price information to the medicaid rebate program. 34 the majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payer. sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines, and imprisonment. even if it is determined that we have not violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which would harm our business and financial results and condition. because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the safe harbors, it is possible that some of our business activities could be challenged under one or more of such laws. in recent years, several states and localities, including california, the district of columbia, massachusetts, minnesota, nevada, new mexico, vermont, and west virginia, have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, and file periodic reports with the state or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, and other activities. similar requirements are being considered in other states. in addition, as part of the ppaca, pharmaceutical companies will be required to file reports with the federal government regarding payments made to healthcare professionals. many of these requirements are new and uncertain, and the penalties for failure to comply with these requirements are unclear. nonetheless, if we are found not to be in full compliance with these laws, we could face enforcement actions, fines, and other penalties, and could receive adverse publicity, which would harm our business and financial results and condition. risks from the improper conduct of employees, agents or contractors or collaborators could adversely affect our business or reputation. we cannot ensure that our compliance controls, policies, and procedures will in every instance protect us from acts committed by our employees, agents, contractors, or collaborators that would violate the laws or regulations of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including without limitation, healthcare, employment, foreign corrupt practices, environmental, competition, and privacy laws. such improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations, monetary and injunctive penalties and could adversely impact our ability to conduct business, results of operations, and reputation. our operations may involve hazardous materials and are subject to environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations. compliance with these laws and regulations is costly, and we may incur substantial liability arising from our activities involving the use of hazardous materials. as a biopharmaceutical company with significant manufacturing operations, we are subject to extensive environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations, including those governing the use of hazardous materials. our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of chemicals, viruses, radioactive compounds, and other hazardous materials. the cost of compliance with environmental, health, and safety regulations is substantial. if an accident involving these materials or an environmental discharge were to occur, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, or face regulatory actions, which could exceed our resources or insurance coverage. our business is subject to increasingly complex corporate governance, public disclosure, and accounting requirements and regulations that could adversely affect our business and financial results and condition. we are subject to changing rules and regulations of various federal and state governmental authorities as well as the stock exchange on which our common stock is listed. these entities, including the public company accounting oversight board (pcaob), the securities and exchange commission (sec), and the nasdaq stock market llc, have issued a significant number of new and increasingly complex requirements and regulations over the course of the last several years and continue to develop additional requirements and regulations in response to laws enacted by congress, including the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and, most recently, the dodd-frank wall street reform and protection act, or the dodd-frank act. there are significant corporate governance and executive compensation-related provisions in the dodd-frank act that expressly authorized or required the sec to adopt additional rules in these areas, such as shareholder approval of executive compensation (so-called say on pay ) and proxy access. on january 25, 2011, the sec adopted final rules concerning say on pay . our efforts to comply with these requirements and regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, an increase in expenses and a diversion of management time from other business activities. 35 changes in laws and regulations affecting the healthcare industry could adversely affect our business. all aspects of our business, including research and development, manufacturing, marketing, pricing, sales, litigation, and intellectual property rights, are subject to extensive legislation and regulation. changes in applicable federal and state laws and agency regulations could have a materially negative impact on our business. these include: changes in the fda and foreign regulatory processes for new therapeutics that may delay or prevent the approval of any of our current or future product candidates; new laws, regulations, or judicial decisions related to healthcare availability or the payment for healthcare products and services, including prescription drugs, that would make it more difficult for us to market and sell products once they are approved by the fda or foreign regulatory agencies; changes in fda and foreign regulations that may require additional safety monitoring prior to or after the introduction of new products to market, which could materially increase our costs of doing business; and changes in fda and foreign cgmps that may make it more difficult and costly for us to maintain regulatory compliance and/or manufacture our marketed product and product candidates in accordance with cgmps. as described above, the ppaca and potential regulations thereunder easing the entry of competing follow-on biologics into the marketplace, other new legislation or implementation of existing statutory provisions on importation of lower-cost competing drugs from other jurisdictions, and legislation on comparative effectiveness research are examples of previously enacted and possible future changes in laws that could adversely affect our business. risks related to our reliance on third parties if our antibody collaboration with sanofi is terminated, our business operations and financial condition, and our ability to discover, develop, manufacture, and commercialize our pipeline of product candidates in the time expected, or at all, would be materially harmed. we rely heavily on funding from sanofi to support our target discovery and antibody research and development programs. sanofi has committed to pay up to $160 million per year, or a total of $1.28 billion, between 2010 and 2017 to fund our efforts to identify and validate drug discovery targets and pre-clinically develop fully human monoclonal antibodies against such targets. sanofi has a one-time option to adjust the maximum reimbursement amount down to $120 million per year commencing in 2014 if over the prior two years certain specified criteria are not satisfied. if this downward adjustment occurs, it will reduce our resources available for antibody discovery activities and negatively affect our clinical pipeline. sanofi also initially funds almost all of the development expenses incurred by both companies in connection with the clinical development of antibodies that sanofi elects to co-develop with us. we rely on sanofi to fund these activities. in addition, with respect to those antibodies that sanofi elects to co-develop with us, such as sarilumab, regn727, regn668, regn421, regn910 , regn728, and regn1033, we rely on sanofi to lead much of the clinical development efforts and assist with obtaining regulatory approval, particularly outside the united states. we also rely on sanofi to lead the commercialization efforts to support all of the antibody products that are co-developed by sanofi and us if they receive regulatory approval. if sanofi does not elect to co-develop the antibodies that we discover or opts-out of their development, we would be required to fund and oversee on our own the clinical trials, any regulatory responsibilities, and the ensuing commercialization efforts to support those antibody products. for example, during 2011 and 2012 to date , sanofi elected not to continue co-development of regn846 and regn475, and decided not to opt-in to the regn1154 program. if sanofi terminates the antibody collaboration or fails to comply with its payment obligations thereunder, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be materially harmed. we would be required to either expend substantially more resources than we have anticipated to support our research and development efforts, which could require us to seek additional funding that might not be available on favorable terms or at all, or materially cut back on such activities. even though none of the antibodies from this collaboration may ever be successfully developed and commercialized, if sanofi does not perform its obligations with respect to antibodies that it elects to co-develop, our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize these antibody product candidates will be significantly adversely affected. if our collaboration with sanofi for zaltrap is terminated, or sanofi materially breaches its obligations thereunder, our business operations, prospects, and financial condition, and our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize zaltrap in the time expected, or at all, would be materially harmed. we rely heavily on sanofi to lead much of the development of zaltrap . sanofi initially funds all of the development expenses incurred by both companies in connection with the zaltrap program. if the zaltrap program continues, we will rely on sanofi to assist with funding the zaltrap program, provide commercial manufacturing capacity, enroll and monitor clinical trials, obtain regulatory approval, particularly outside the united states, and lead the commercialization of zaltrap . while zaltrap may not ever be successfully developed and commercialized, if sanofi fails to perform its obligations in a timely manner, or at all, our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize zaltrap in cancer indications will be significantly adversely affected. sanofi has the right to terminate its collaboration agreement with us at any time upon twelve months advance notice. if sanofi were to terminate its collaboration agreement with us, we would not have the resources or skills to replace those of our partner, which could require us to seek additional funding that might not be available on favorable terms or at all, and could cause significant delays in the development and/or manufacture of zaltrap and result in substantial additional costs to us. we have limited commercial capabilities and would have to develop or outsource these capabilities. termination of the sanofi collaboration agreement for zaltrap would create substantial new and additional risks to the successful development and commercialization of zaltrap . 36 if our collaboration with bayer healthcare for eylea is terminated, or bayer healthcare materially breaches its obligations thereunder, our business operations, prospects, and financial condition, and our ability to continue to develop eylea and commercialize eylea outside the united states in the time expected, or at all, would be materially harmed. we rely heavily on bayer healthcare to assist with the development, and the commercialization outside the united states, of eylea . under our agreement with them, bayer healthcare is required to fund approximately half of the development expenses incurred by both companies in connection with the global eylea development program. as the eylea program continues, we will continue to rely on bayer healthcare to assist with funding the eylea development program, continue to lead the development of eylea outside the united states, obtain regulatory approval outside the united states, and provide all sales, marketing, and commercial support for the product outside the united states. in particular, bayer healthcare has responsibility for selling eylea outside the united states using its sales force. while we cannot assure you that eylea will receive regulatory approval in or outside the united states or be successfully commercialized, if bayer healthcare does not perform its obligations in a timely manner, or at all, our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize eylea outside the united states will be significantly adversely affected. bayer healthcare has the right to terminate its collaboration agreement with us at any time upon six or twelve months advance notice, depending on the circumstances giving rise to termination. if bayer healthcare were to terminate its collaboration agreement with us, we would not have the resources or skills to replace those of our partner, which could require us to seek additional funding or another collaboration that might not be available on favorable terms or at all, and could cause significant delays in the development and/or commercialization of eylea outside the united states and result in substantial additional costs to us. we currently have limited commercial capabilities and would have to develop or outsource these capabilities outside the united states. termination of the bayer healthcare collaboration agreement would create substantial new and additional risks to the successful development and commercialization of eylea , particularly outside the united states. our collaborators and service providers may fail to perform adequately in their efforts to support the development, manufacture, and commercialization of our drug candidates and current and future products. we depend upon third-party collaborators, including sanofi, bayer healthcare, and service providers such as cros, outside testing laboratories, clinical investigator sites, and third-party manufacturers, fill/finish, and product packagers and labelers, to assist us in the manufacture and preclinical and clinical development of our product candidates. we also depend, or will depend, on some of these third parties in connection with the commercialization of eylea for the treatment of wet amd, arcalyst for the treatment of caps, and our late-stage product candidates and new indications for our marketed products if they are approved for marketing. if any of our existing collaborators or service providers breaches or terminates its agreement with us or does not perform its development or manufacturing services under an agreement in a timely manner or in compliance with applicable gmps, good laboratory practices (glps), or gcp standards, we could experience additional costs, delays, and difficulties in the manufacture or development of, or in obtaining approval by regulatory authorities for and successfully commercializing, our product candidates. we rely on third-party service providers to support the distribution of eylea and arcalyst and for many other related activities in connection with the commercialization of these marketed products. despite our arrangements with them, these third parties may not perform adequately. if these service providers do not perform their services adequately, our sales of eylea for the treatment of wet amd and arcalyst for the treatment of caps will suffer. risk related to employees we are dependent on our key personnel and if we cannot recruit and retain leaders in our research, development, manufacturing, and commercial organizations, our business will be harmed. we are highly dependent on certain of our executive officers, other key members of our senior management team, and our chairman. if we are not able to retain any of these persons, our business may suffer. in particular, we depend on the services of p. roy vagelos, m.d., the chairman of our board of directors, leonard s. schleifer, m.d., ph.d., our president and chief executive officer, george d. yancopoulos, m.d., ph.d., our executive vice president, chief scientific officer and president, regeneron research laboratories, and neil stahl, ph.d., our senior vice president, research and development sciences. as we commercialize eylea in the united states for the treatment of wet amd and prepare for commercialization in the united states of eylea for the treatment of crvo and arcalyst for the treatment of gout flares in patients initiating uric acid-lowering therapy, should they receive regulatory approval, we will also be highly dependent on the expertise and services of members of our senior management leading these commercialization efforts. there is intense competition in the biotechnology industry for qualified scientists and managerial personnel in the development, manufacture, and commercialization of drugs. we may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary to continue to advance our business and achieve our strategic objectives. 37 information technology risks significant disruptions of information technology systems or breaches of data security could adversely affect our business. our business is increasingly dependent on critical, complex, and interdependent information technology systems, including internet-based systems, to support business processes as well as internal and external communications. the size and complexity of our computer systems make them potentially vulnerable to breakdown, malicious intrusion, and computer viruses which may result in the impairment of production and key business processes. in addition, our systems are potentially vulnerable to data security breaches whether by employees or others which may expose sensitive data to unauthorized persons. such data security breaches could lead to the loss of trade secrets or other intellectual property, or could lead to the public exposure of personal information (including sensitive personal information) of our employees, clinical trial patients, customers, and others. such disruptions and breaches of security could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. risks related to our common stock our stock price is extremely volatile. there has been significant volatility in our stock price and generally in the market prices of biotechnology companies securities. various factors and events may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. these factors include, by way of example: announcement of actions by the fda or foreign regulatory authorities or their respective advisory committees regarding our, or our collaborators currently pending or future application(s) for regulatory approval of our product candidate(s) or new indications for our marketed products; announcement of submission of an application for regulatory approval of one or more of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products; progress, delays, or adverse results in clinical trials; announcement of technological innovations or product candidates by us or competitors; fluctuations in our operating results; in particular, net product sales of, and profits from, eylea and, if any of our product candidates or our new indications for our marketed products receive regulatory approval, net product sales of, and profits from, these product candidates and new indications; market acceptance of, and fluctuations in market share for, our marketed products, especially eylea , and whether these factors, including our net products sales, underperform, meet, or exceed the expectations of investors or analysts; third-party claims that our products or technologies infringe their patents; third-party challenges to our patents in the european patent office and in the u.s. patent and trademark office; public concern as to the safety or effectiveness of any of our marketed products or product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, including eylea , zaltrap , or arcalyst for the prevention of gout flares in patients initiating uric acid-lowering therapy; pricing or reimbursement actions or decisions by government authorities or insurers affecting the coverage or reimbursement of any of our marketed products or competitors products; our ability to raise additional capital as needed on favorable terms; developments in our relationship with collaborative partners; developments in the biotechnology industry or in government regulation of healthcare; large sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors, or significant shareholders; arrivals and departures of key personnel; and general market conditions. 38 the trading price of our common stock has been, and could continue to be, subject to wide fluctuations in response to these and other factors, including the sale or attempted sale of a large amount of our common stock in the market. broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the market price of our common stock. future sales of our common stock by our significant shareholders or us may depress our stock price and impair our ability to raise funds in new share offerings. a small number of our shareholders beneficially own a substantial amount of our common stock. as of december 31, 2011, our six largest shareholders plus leonard s. schleifer, m.d, ph.d., our chief executive officer, beneficially owned 61.9% of our outstanding shares of common stock, assuming, in the case of our chief executive officer, the conversion of his class a stock into common stock and the exercise of all options held by him which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2011. in september 2003, sanofi (then aventis pharmaceuticals inc.) purchased 2,799,552 newly issued, unregistered shares of our common stock, and in december 2007 sanofi purchased an additional 12,000,000 newly issued, unregistered shares of our common stock. under our investor agreement, as amended, with sanofi, these shares may not be sold until december 20, 2017 except under limited circumstances and subject to earlier termination of these restrictions upon the occurrence of certain events. in addition, in october 2010, sanofi purchased an additional 1,017,401 shares of common stock in our underwritten public offering. as of december 31, 2011, sanofi beneficially owned 15,816,953 shares of our common stock, representing approximately 17.4% of the shares of common stock then outstanding. if sanofi, or our other significant shareholders or we, sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur exists, the market price of our common stock could fall. sales of common stock by our significant shareholders, including sanofi, also might make it more difficult for us to raise funds by selling equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. our existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval. holders of class a stock, who are generally the shareholders who purchased their stock from us before our initial public offering, are entitled to ten votes per share, while holders of common stock are entitled to one vote per share. as of december 31, 2011, holders of class a stock held 18.9% of the combined voting power of all shares of common stock and class a stock then outstanding. these shareholders, if acting together, would be in a position to significantly influence the election of our directors and the vote on certain corporate transactions that require majority or supermajority approval of the combined classes, including mergers and other business combinations. this may result in our taking corporate actions that other shareholders may not consider to be in their best interest and may affect the price of our common stock. as of december 31, 2011: our current executive officers and directors beneficially owned 12.0% of our outstanding shares of common stock, assuming conversion of their class a stock into common stock and the exercise of all options held by such persons which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2011, and 25.0% of the combined voting power of our outstanding shares of common stock and class a stock, assuming the exercise of all options held by such persons which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2011; and our six largest shareholders plus leonard s. schleifer, m.d., ph.d. our chief executive officer, beneficially owned 61.9% of our outstanding shares of common stock, assuming, in the case of our chief executive officer, the conversion of his class a stock into common stock and the exercise of all options held by him which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2011. in addition, these seven shareholders held 65.1% of the combined voting power of our outstanding shares of common stock and class a stock, assuming the exercise of all options held by our chief executive officer which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2011. pursuant to an investor agreement, as amended, sanofi has agreed to vote its shares, at sanofi election, either as recommended by our board of directors or proportionally with the votes cast by our other shareholders, except with respect to certain change of control transactions, liquidation or dissolution, stock issuances equal to or exceeding 10% of the then outstanding shares or voting rights of common stock and class a stock, and new equity compensation plans or amendments if not materially consistent with our historical equity compensation practices. 39 the anti-takeover effects of provisions of our charter, by-laws, and of new york corporate law and the contractual standstill provisions in our investor agreement with sanofi, could deter, delay, or prevent an acquisition or other change in control of us and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. our restated certificate of incorporation, our by-laws, and the new york business corporation law contain various provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company or our management that shareholders may consider favorable or beneficial. some of these provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. these provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. these provisions include: authorization to issue blank check preferred stock, which is preferred stock that can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior shareholder approval, with rights senior to those of our common stock and class a stock; a staggered board of directors, so that it would take three successive annual meetings to replace all of our directors; a requirement that removal of directors may only be effected for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of at least eighty percent (80%) of the outstanding shares entitled to vote for directors, as well as a requirement that any vacancy on the board of directors may be filled only by the remaining directors; a provision whereby any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of shareholders may be taken without a meeting, only if, prior to such action, all of our shareholders consent, the effect of which is to require that shareholder action may only be taken at a duly convened meeting; a requirement that any shareholder seeking to bring business before an annual meeting of shareholders must provide timely notice of this intention in writing and meet various other requirements; and under the new york business corporation law, in addition to certain restrictions which may apply to business combinations involving our company and an interested shareholder , a plan of merger or consolidation of our company must be approved by two-thirds of the votes of all outstanding shares entitled to vote thereon. see the risk factor immediately above captioned our existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval. until the later of the fifth anniversaries of the expiration or earlier termination of our antibody collaboration agreements with sanofi or our zaltrap collaboration with sanofi, sanofi will be bound by certain standstill provisions, as amended, which contractually prohibit sanofi from acquiring more than certain specified percentages of our class a stock and common stock (taken together) or otherwise seeking to obtain control of our company. in addition, we have a change in control severance plan and our chief executive officer has an employment agreement that provides severance benefits in the event our officers are terminated as a result of a change in control of our company. many of our stock options issued under our 2000 long-term incentive plan, as amended and restated, may become fully vested in connection with a change in control of our company, as defined in the plan. these contractual provisions may also have the effect of deterring, delaying, or preventing an acquisition or other change in control. risks relating to our convertible senior notes and related hedge transactions the convertible note hedges and warrant transactions we entered into in connection with our 1.875% convertible senior notes issuance may affect the trading price of our common stock. in connection with our offering of our 1.875% convertible senior notes due october 1, 2016, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions with four financial institutions (the hedge counterparties ). the convertible note hedge transactions are expected to reduce the potential dilution to our common stock and/or offset potential cash payments in excess of the principal amount of the notes, as the case may be upon conversion of the notes. in the event that the hedge counterparties fail to deliver shares to us or potential cash payments as the case may be as required under the convertible note hedge documents, we would not receive the benefit of such transactions. separately, we also entered into warrant transactions with the hedge counterparties. the warrant transactions could separately have a dilutive effect from the issuance of common stock pursuant to the warrants. in connection with hedging these transactions, the hedge counterparties and/or their affiliates may enter into various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock, and may enter into, or may unwind, various derivative transactions and/or purchase or sell our common stock or other securities of ours in secondary market transactions prior to maturity of the notes (and are likely to do so during any conversion period related to any conversion of the notes). these activities could have the effect of increasing or preventing a decline in, or could have a negative effect on, the value of our common stock and could have the effect of increasing or preventing a decline in the value of our c ommon tock during any cash settlement averaging period related to a conversion of the notes. 40 in addition, we intend to exercise options under the convertible note hedge transactions whenever notes are converted. in order to unwind its hedge position with respect to the options we exercise, the hedge counterparties and/or their affiliates may sell shares of our common stock or other securities in secondary market transactions or unwind various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock during the cash settlement averaging period for the converted notes. the effect, if any, of any of these transactions and activities on the trading price of our common stock or the notes will depend in part on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time, but any of these activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock and the value of the notes. the derivative transactions that the hedge counterparties and/or their affiliates expect to enter into to hedge these transactions may include cash-settled equity swaps referenced to our common stock. in certain circumstances, the hedge counterparties and/or their affiliates may have derivative positions that, when combined with the hedge counterparties and their affiliates ownership of our common stock, if any, would give them economic exposure to the return on a significant number of shares of our common stock. the fundamental change provisions of our 1.875% convertible senior notes and certain of the terms of the convertible note hedge and warrant transactions may delay or prevent an otherwise beneficial takeover attempt of us. the fundamental change purchase rights, which will allow noteholders to require us to purchase all or a portion of their notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, as defined in the indenture governing the notes, and the provisions requiring an increase to the conversion rate for conversions in connection with make-whole fundamental changes, as set forth in the indenture, may in certain circumstances delay or prevent a takeover of us and the removal of incumbent management that might otherwise be beneficial to investors. in addition, upon the occurrence of certain extraordinary events, the convertible note hedge transactions would be exercised upon the conversion of notes, and the warrant transactions may be terminated. it is possible that the proceeds we receive upon the exercise of the convertible note hedge transactions would be significantly lower than the amounts we would be required to pay upon termination of the warrant transactions. such differences may result in the acquisition of us being on terms less favorable to our shareholders than it would otherwise be. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our earnings and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to changes in interest rates, principally in connection with our investments in marketable securities, which consist primarily of direct obligations of the u.s. government and its agencies, other debt securities guaranteed by the u.s. government, and money market funds that invest in u.s. government securities. we do not believe we are materially exposed to changes in interest rates. under our current policies, we do not use interest rate derivative instruments to manage exposure to interest rate changes. we estimate that a one percent unfavorable change in interest rates would have resulted in approximately a $1.4 million and $5.9 million decrease in the fair value of our unrestricted investment portfolio at december 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. the decrease in interest rate risk year over year is due primarily to lower balances of marketable debt securities with maturities in excess of one year that we held at december 31, 2011 compared to 2010. credit quality risk we have an investment policy that includes guidelines on acceptable investment securities, minimum credit quality, maturity parameters, and concentration and diversification. nonetheless, deterioration of the credit quality of an investment security subsequent to purchase may subject us to the risk of not being able to recover the full principal value of the security. we have recognized other-than-temporary impairment charges related to certain marketable securities of $0.1 million in 2010 and 2009. during 2011, we did not recognize any other-than-temporary impairment charges. we are also subject to credit risk in connection with accounts receivable from our product sales of eylea and arcalyst . our marketed products are sold in the united states, and related accounts receivable are due from three distributors and several specialty pharmacies, who are our customers. we have contractual payment terms with each of our customers. we monitor our customers financial performance and credit worthiness so that we can properly assess and respond to any changes in their credit profile. during 2011, 2010, and 2009 we did not recognize any charges for write-offs of accounts receivable related to our marketed products. 75risk factors 14 risk factors - risks related to commercialization of eylea for the treatment of wet amd and risks related to commercialization of products ). our competitors include genentech (a member of the roche group), roche, novartis, pfizer inc., bayer healthcare, onyx pharmaceuticals, inc., allergan, inc., eli lilly and company, abbott laboratories, sanofi, merck &amp; co., inc., amgen inc., astrazeneca, bristol-myers squibb, johnson &amp; johnson, glaxosmithkline, and others. many of our competitors have substantially greater research, preclinical, and clinical product development and manufacturing capabilities, and financial, marketing, and human resources than we do. competition from smaller competitors may also be or become more significant if those competitors acquire or discover patentable inventions, form collaborative arrangements, or merge with large pharmaceutical companies. even if we are able to commercialize additional product candidates, one or more of our competitors may have brought a competitive product to market earlier than us or may have obtained or obtain patent protection that dominates or adversely affects our activities or products. our ability to compete will depend, to a great extent, on how fast we can develop safe and effective product candidates, complete clinical testing and approval processes, and supply commercial quantities of the product to the market. competition among product candidates approved for sale will also be based on efficacy, safety, reliability, availability, price, patent position, and other factors. eylea. the market for eye disease products is very competitive. novartis and genentech are collaborating on the commercialization and further development of a vegf antibody fragment (lucentis ) for the treatment of wet amd, dme, rvo, and other eye indications. lucentis was approved by the fda in june 2006 for the treatment of wet amd, in june 2010 for the treatment of macular edema following retinal vein occlusion (rvo), and in august 2012 for the treatment of dme. lucentis was approved by the ema for wet amd in january 2007, for the treatment of dme in january 2011, and for the treatment of rvo in june 2011. many other companies, including genentech, are working on the development of product candidates and 10 table of contents extended delivery devices for the potential treatment of wet amd, dme, and rvo including those that act by blocking vegf and vegf receptors, as well as use of small interfering ribonucleic acids (sirnas) that modulate gene expression. for example, in january, 2012, genentech submitted an ind for an extended delivery device. ophthotech corporation is developing fovista , an aptamer directed against platelet-derived growth factor subunit b (pdgf-b), as a product candidate intended to be used in combination with an anti-vegf therapy in wet amd. in june 2012, ophthotech announced results of a phase 2b study in wet amd that it claimed demonstrated that fovista administered in combination with lucentis resulted in increased visual outcomes compared to lucentis monotherapy. allergan is developing an anti-vegf-a darpin , as well as a dual anti-vegf-a/pdgf-b darpin , and its corresponding backups for the treatment of wet amd and related conditions. allergan has announced that it expects phase 2 data in wet amd from its anti-vegf-a darpin in 2013. in addition, ophthalmologists are using off-label, with success for the treatment of wet amd, dme, and rvo, a third-party repackaged version of genentech's approved vegf antagonist, avastin (bevacizumab). the relatively low cost of therapy with avastin in patients with wet amd presents a significant competitive challenge in this indication. long-term, controlled clinical trials comparing lucentis to avastin in the treatment of wet amd are being conducted. one-year data from the comparison of age-related macular degeneration treatments trial (catt) were reported in april 2011 and indicated that avastin dosed monthly was non-inferior to lucentis dosed monthly in the primary efficacy endpoint of mean visual acuity gain at 52 weeks. avastin is also being evaluated in eye diseases in trials that have been initiated in the united kingdom, canada, brazil, mexico, germany, israel, and other areas. it may be difficult for eylea to compete in this or other eye indications for which it may be approved against lucentis and off-label use of avastin because doctors and patients have had significant experience using these medicines and because of the relatively low cost of avastin . moreover, the reported results of the catt study, combined with the relatively low cost of avastin in treating patients with wet amd, may well exacerbate the competitive challenge which eylea will face in this or other eye indications for which it may be approved. in addition, while we believe that zaltrap would not be well tolerated if administered directly to the eye, there is a risk that third parties will attempt to repackage zaltrap for off-label use and sale for the treatment of wet amd and other diseases of the eye, which would present a potential low-cost competitive threat to eylea for wet amd or other eye indications. zaltrap. many companies are developing therapeutic molecules designed to block the actions of vegf specifically and angiogenesis in general. a variety of approaches have been employed, including antibodies to vegf, antibodies to the vegf receptor, small molecule antagonists to the vegf receptor tyrosine kinase, and other anti-angiogenesis strategies. many of these alternative approaches may offer competitive advantages to aflibercept in efficacy, side-effect profile, durability of effect, or method of delivery. additionally, some of these molecules are already approved for marketing and have a broader range of indications than our product candidate. in particular, genentech has an approved vegf antagonist, avastin , on the market for treating certain cancers and a number of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are working to develop competing vegf antagonists, including novartis, amgen, imclone llc/eli lilly, pfizer, astrazeneca, glaxosmithkline, and aveo. some of these molecules may offer competitive advantages over our molecule. pfizer, onyx (together with its partner bayer healthcare), glaxosmithkline, and bayer healthcare are selling and marketing oral medications that target tumor cell growth and new vasculature formation that fuels the growth of tumors. arcalyst. in 2009, novartis received regulatory approval in the united states and europe for canakinumab, a fully human anti-interleukin-1 (il-1 ) antibody, for the treatment of caps. in january 2011, novartis announced that it had submitted an application to the ema for approval of canakinumab in the treatment of gout flares. novartis submitted a supplemental bla to the fda in the first quarter of 2011 for approval of canakinumab in gout, which was denied in august 2011 based upon safety concerns. canakinumab is also in development for atherosclerosis and a number of other inflammatory diseases. in addition, there are both small molecules and antibodies in development by other third parties that are designed to block the synthesis of il-1 or inhibit the signaling of il-1. for example, xoma ltd., in collaboration with servier, is developing an antibody to il-1, and amgen, medimmune, and xbiotech are developing antibodies to the il-1 receptor. these drug candidates could offer competitive advantages over arcalyst. the successful development and/or commercialization of these competing molecules could adversely affect sales of arcalyst for caps. monoclonal antibodies. our clinical candidates in development are all fully human monoclonal antibodies which were generated using our velocimmune technology. our antibody generation technologies and clinical candidates face competition from many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies using various technologies. numerous other companies are developing therapeutic antibody products. companies such as pfizer, johnson &amp; johnson, astrazeneca, amgen, biogen idec, inc., novartis, genentech, bristol-myers squib, abbvie, and glaxosmithkline have generated therapeutic products that are currently in development or on the market that are derived from recombinant dna that comprise 11 table of contents human antibody sequences. astellas has licensed our velocimmune technology as part of their internal antibody development programs. we are aware of several pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies actively engaged in the research and development of antibody products against targets that are also the targets of our product candidates. for example, amgen, pfizer, genentech, santaris, and eli lilly have development programs for antibodies against pcsk9; alnylam, in partnership with the medicines company, has a clinical program underway with an rnai molecule against pcsk9. glaxosmithkline, teva pharmaceutical industries ltd., and genentech have development programs for antibodies against il-4r, il-4, or il-13 for the treatment of asthma. pfizer, johnson &amp; johnson, and abbvie are developing antibody product candidates against ngf. genentech is marketing an antibody against il-6r (tocilizumab) for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis, and several other companies, including centocor ortho biotech, inc. and bristol-myers squibb, have antibodies against il-6 in clinical development for this disease. aerovance has completed initial clinical trials of two formulations of a biologic directed against il-4. amgen previously had an antibody against il-4r in clinical development for the treatment of asthma. amgen, pfizer, and astrazeneca have development programs underway for antibodies against ang2. glaxosmithkline, in partnership with oncomed pharmaceuticals, inc., has a dll4 antibody in clinical development for the treatment of solid tumors. other areas. many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are attempting to discover new therapeutics for indications in which we invest substantial time and resources. in these and related areas, intellectual property rights have been sought and certain rights have been granted to competitors and potential competitors of ours, and we may be at a substantial competitive disadvantage in such areas as a result of, among other things, our lack of experience, trained personnel, and expertise. a number of corporate and academic competitors are involved in the discovery and development of novel therapeutics that are the focus of other research or development programs we are now conducting. many firms and entities are engaged in research and development in the areas of cytokines, interleukins, angiogenesis, and muscle conditions. some of these competitors are currently conducting advanced preclinical and clinical research programs in these areas. these and other competitors may have established substantial intellectual property and other competitive advantages. if any of these or other competitors announces a successful clinical study involving a product that may be competitive with one of our product candidates or the grant of marketing approval by a regulatory agency for a competitive product, such developments may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, cash flows, or future prospects. we also compete with academic institutions, governmental agencies, and other public or private research organizations, which conduct research, seek patent protection, and establish collaborative arrangements for the development and marketing of products that would provide royalties or other consideration for use of their technology. these institutions are becoming more active in seeking patent protection and licensing arrangements to collect royalties or other consideration for use of the technology they have developed. products developed in this manner may compete directly with products we develop. we also compete with others in acquiring technology from these institutions, agencies, and organizations. patents, trademarks, and trade secrets our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain patents, maintain trade secret protection, and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties (see item 1a. risk factors - risks related to intellectual property and market exclusivity - we may be restricted in our development, manufacturing, and/or commercialization activities by, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed, third-party patents or other proprietary rights, and the costs and expenses of ongoing patent litigation have been and will likely continue to be significant. ). our policy is to file patent applications to protect technology, inventions, and improvements that we consider important to our business and operations. as of december 31, 2012, we held an ownership interest in a total of approximately 185 issued patents in the united states and approximately 777 issued patents in foreign countries with respect to our products and technologies. in addition, we hold an ownership interest in hundreds of patent applications in the united states and foreign countries. our patent portfolio includes granted patents and pending patent applications covering our velocisuite technologies, including our velocimmune mouse platform which produces fully human monoclonal antibodies. our issued patents covering these technologies generally expire between 2020 and 2028. however, we continue to file patent applications directed to improvements to these technology platforms. our patent portfolio also includes issued patents and pending applications relating to our marketed products, eylea, zaltrap, and arcalyst, and our product candidates in clinical development. these patents cover the proteins and dna encoding the proteins, manufacturing patents, method of use patents, and pharmaceutical compositions, as well as various methods of using the products. for each of eylea, zaltrap, and arcalyst, these patents generally expire between 2020 and 2028. 12 table of contents however, the projected patent terms may be subject to extension based on potential patent term extensions in countries where such extensions are available. we also are the nonexclusive licensee of a number of additional patents and patent applications. in december 2011, we and genentech entered into a non-exclusive license and partial settlement agreement relating to ophthalmic sales of eylea in the united states. pursuant to this agreement, we received a non-exclusive license to certain patents relating to vegf receptor proteins, known as the davis-smyth patents, and other technology patents. in july 2008 we entered into an amended and restated non-exclusive license agreement with cellectis s.a. pursuant to which we licensed certain patents and patent applications relating to a process for the specific replacement of a copy of a gene in the receiver genome by homologous recombination. we also have non-exclusive license agreements with amgen and other organizations for patent rights related to arcalyst. patent law relating to the patentability and scope of claims in the biotechnology field is evolving and our patent rights are subject to this additional uncertainty. the degree of patent protection that will be afforded to our products in the united states and other important commercial markets is uncertain and is dependent upon the scope of protection decided upon by the patent offices, courts, and governments in these countries. there is no certainty that our existing patents or others, if obtained, will provide us protection from competition or provide commercial benefit. others may independently develop similar products or processes to those developed by us, duplicate any of our products or processes or, if patents are issued to us, design around any products and processes covered by our patents. we expect to continue, when appropriate, to file product and process applications with respect to our inventions. however, we may not file any such applications or, if filed, the patents may not be issued. patents issued to or licensed by us may be infringed by the products or processes of others. defense and enforcement of our intellectual property rights is expensive and time consuming, even if the outcome is favorable to us. it is possible that patents issued or licensed to us will be successfully challenged, that a court may find that we are infringing validly issued patents of third parties, or that we may have to alter or discontinue the development of our products or pay licensing fees to take into account patent rights of third parties (see item 1a. risk factors - risks related to intellectual property and market exclusivity - we may be restricted in our development, manufacturing, and/or commercialization activities by, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed, third-party patents or other proprietary rights, and the costs and expenses of ongoing patent litigation have been and will likely continue to be significant. ). government regulation regulation by government authorities in the united states and foreign countries is a significant factor in the research, development, manufacture, and marketing of eylea, zaltrap, arcalyst, and our product candidates (see item 1a. risk factors - risks related to commercialization of eylea for wet amd - our regulatory approval for sales of eylea is limited to the treatment of wet amd and is limited to sales in the united states. if we don't receive approval for eylea for other indications, or if approvals are not obtained for sales in other countries, our sales and profits will be limited and risks related to the development and approval of our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products - if we do not obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our products and product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, we will not be able to market or sell them, which would materially and negatively impact our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. ) . all of our product candidates will require regulatory approval before they can be commercialized. in particular, human therapeutic products are subject to rigorous preclinical and clinical trials and other pre-market approval requirements by the fda and foreign authorities. many aspects of the structure and substance of the fda and foreign pharmaceutical regulatory practices have been reformed during recent years, and continued reform is under consideration in a number of jurisdictions. the ultimate outcome and impact of such reforms and potential reforms cannot be predicted. the activities required before a product candidate may be marketed in the united states begin with preclinical tests. preclinical tests include laboratory evaluations and animal studies to assess the potential safety and efficacy of the product candidate and its formulations. the results of these studies must be submitted to the fda as part of an ind, which must be reviewed by the fda before proposed clinical testing can begin. typically, clinical testing involves a three-phase process. in phase 1, trials are conducted with a small number of subjects to determine the early safety profile of the product candidate. in phase 2, clinical trials are conducted with subjects afflicted with a specific disease or disorder to provide enough data to evaluate the preliminary safety, tolerability, and efficacy of different potential doses of the product candidate. in phase 3, large-scale clinical trials are conducted with patients afflicted with the specific disease or disorder in order to provide enough data to understand the efficacy and safety profile of the product candidate, as required by the fda. the results of the preclinical and clinical testing of a biologic product candidate are 13 table of contents then submitted to the fda in the form of a bla for evaluation to determine whether the product candidate may be approved for commercial sale. in responding to a bla, the fda may grant marketing approval, request additional information, or deny the application. any approval required by the fda for any of our product candidates may not be obtained on a timely basis, or at all. the designation of a clinical trial as being of a particular phase is not necessarily indicative that such a trial will be sufficient to satisfy the parameters of a particular phase, and a clinical trial may contain elements of more than one phase notwithstanding the designation of the trial as being of a particular phase. the results of preclinical studies or early stage clinical trials may not predict long-term safety or efficacy of our compounds when they are tested or used more broadly in humans. approval of a product candidate by comparable regulatory authorities in foreign countries is generally required prior to commencement of marketing of the product in those countries. the approval procedure varies among countries and may involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain such approval may differ from that required for fda approval. various federal, state, and foreign statutes and regulations also govern or influence the research, manufacture, safety, labeling, storage, record keeping, marketing, transport, and other aspects of pharmaceutical product candidates. the lengthy process of seeking these approvals and the compliance with applicable statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial resources. any failure by us or our collaborators or licensees to obtain, or any delay in obtaining, regulatory approvals could adversely affect the manufacturing or marketing of our products and our ability to receive product or royalty revenue. in addition to the foregoing, our present and future business will be subject to regulation under the united states atomic energy act, the clean air act, the clean water act, the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act, the national environmental policy act, the toxic substances control act, the resource conservation and recovery act, national restrictions, and other current and potential future local, state, federal, and foreign regulations. business segments we manage our business as one segment which includes all activities related to the discovery of pharmaceutical products for the treatment of serious medical conditions and the development and commercialization of these discoveries. this segment includes revenues and expenses related to (i) product sales of eylea and arcalyst, (ii) research and development activities conducted under our collaboration agreements with third parties, (iii) our share of the income (loss) from commercialization of products under our collaboration agreements, (iv) licensing agreements to utilize our velocimmune technology, and (v) the supply of specified, ordered research materials using our velocigen e technology platform. employees as of december 31, 2012, we had approximately 1,950 full-time employees, of whom approximately 360 held a ph.d. and/or m.d., or pharmd degree. we believe that we have been successful in attracting skilled and experienced personnel in a highly competitive environment; however, competition for these personnel is intense. none of our personnel are covered by collective bargaining agreements and our management considers its relations with our employees to be good. available information we make available free of charge on or through our internet website (http://www.regeneron.com) our an nual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the securities and exchange commission (sec). item 1a. risk factors we operate in an environment that involves a number of significant risks and uncertainties. we caution you to read the following risk factors, which have affected, and/or in the future could affect, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. the risks described below include forward-looking statements, and actual events and our actual results may differ materially from these forward-looking statements. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. furthermore, additional risks and uncertainties are described under other captions in this report and should also be considered by our investors. 14 table of contents risks related to our financial results and need for additional financing we have a history of operating losses and have only recently achieved profitability. if we cannot sustain profitability, our business, prospects, and financial condition would be materially harmed. beginning in the first quarter of 2012, we reported profitability; prior to that, we generally incurred net losses. from inception on january 8, 1988 through december 31, 2012, we had a cumulative loss of $517.1 million . if we cannot sustain profitability, we may be unable to continue our operations. in the absence of substantial revenue from the sale of products on an ongoing basis, including our current sales of eylea and arcalyst, and our share of the profits from sanofi's sales of zaltrap and bayer healthcare's sales of eylea outside the united states, or from other sources, the amount, timing, nature or source of which cannot be predicted, we may incur substantial losses again as we conduct our research and development activities, commercialize our approved products, and prepare for possible commercialization of our other product candidates and new indications of our marketed products. we may need additional funding in the future, which may not be available to us, and which may force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts. we will need to expend substantial resources for research and development, including costs associated with clinical testing of our product candidates and new indications of our marketed products, the commercialization of products, and capital expenditures. we believe our existing capital resources, together with funds generated by current and anticipated eylea net product sales and funding we are entitled to receive under our collaboration agreements, will enable us to meet our anticipated operating needs for the foreseeable future; however, one or more of our collaboration agreements may terminate, our revenues may fall short of our projections or be delayed, or our expenses may increase, any of which could result in our capital being consumed significantly faster than anticipated. in addition, our expenses may increase for many reasons, including expenses in connection with the ongoing launch and marketing of eylea and the potential commercial launches of our late-stage product candidates and new indications for our marketed products, manufacturing scale-up, expenses related to clinical trials testing eylea, regn475, regn846, regn1154, regn1400, or regn1500, and expenses related to the potential requirement for us to fund 20% of phase 3 clinical trial costs for any of our antibody product candidates being developed in collaboration with sanofi. we cannot be certain that our existing capital resources and our current and anticipated revenues will be sufficient to meet our operating needs. we may require additional financing in the future and we may not be able to raise additional funds. if additional financing is necessary and we are able to obtain it through the sale of equity securities, such sales will likely be dilutive to our shareholders. debt financing arrangements may require us to pledge certain assets or enter into covenants that would restrict our business activities or our ability to incur further indebtedness and may be at interest rates and contain other terms that are not favorable to our shareholders. should we require and be unable to raise sufficient funds (i) to complete the development of our product candidates, (ii) to successfully commercialize our late-stage product candidates or new indications for our marketed products if they obtain regulatory approval, and (iii) to continue our manufacturing and marketing of eylea for the treatment of wet amd and macular edema following crvo, we may face delay, reduction, or elimination of our research and development or preclinical or clinical programs and our commercialization activities, which would significantly limit our potential to generate revenue. changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. our revenue from outside of the united states will increase as our products, whether marketed by us or our collaborators, gain marketing approval in such jurisdictions. if the u.s. dollar weakens against a specific foreign currency, our revenues will increase, having a positive impact on net income, but our overall expenses will increase, having a negative impact. likewise, if the u.s. dollar strengthens against a specific foreign currency, our revenues will decrease, having a negative impact on net income, but our overall expenses will decrease, having a positive impact. therefore, significant changes in foreign exchange rates can impact our operating results and the financial condition of our company. 15 table of contents risks related to commercialization of eylea we are substantially dependent on the success of eylea. if we are unable to continue to commercialize eylea or if we are unable to obtain additional marketing approvals, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition will be materially harmed. eylea net sales make up a substantial portion of our revenues and this concentration of our net sales in a single product makes us substantially dependent on that product. if we were to experience difficulty with the commercialization of eylea in the united states, if bayer healthcare were to experience any difficulty with the commercialization of eylea outside the united states, or if we and bayer healthcare are unable to maintain current marketing approvals of eylea, we may experience a reduction in revenue and may not be able to sustain profitability, and our operating results and financial condition would be materially harmed. in addition, if we are unable to obtain approval of eylea in the united states for the treatment of dme and macular edema following brvo, or if bayer healthcare is unable to obtain approval of eylea in additional countries or in additional indications, our prospects would be materially harmed. we are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight with respect to eylea. if we fail to maintain regulatory compliance for eylea, we may lose marketing approval, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. eylea is currently approved for treatment of wet amd and macular edema following crvo in the united states. outside the united states, eylea is currently approved for the treatment of wet amd in the european union, switzerland, australia, colombia, japan, brazil, and chile, and bayer healthcare is seeking approval in other countries. we are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations with respect to eylea for the treatment of wet amd and macular edema following crvo in the united states, and, outside the united states, the commercialization of eylea is subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight in those countries where the product is approved. if we fail to maintain regulatory compliance for eylea for the treatment of wet amd and macular edema following crvo, we may lose marketing approval, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. failure to comply may also subject us to sanctions, product recalls, or withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications. see also if we fail to meet the stringent requirements of governmental regulation in the manufacture of drug products or product candidates, we could incur substantial remedial costs, delays in the development or approval of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products and/or in their commercial launch if they obtain regulatory approval, and a reduction in sales. serious complications or side effects in connection with the use of eylea could materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. there are risks inherent in intravitreal injections, including with eylea, such as intraocular inflammation, sterile and culture positive endophthalmitis, corneal decomposition, retinal detachment, retinal tear, and other side effects, all of which are reported from time to time to the fda. serious complications or serious, unexpected side effects in connection with the use of eylea could materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. our regulatory approval for sales of eylea is limited to the treatment of wet amd and macular edema following crvo and is limited geographically. if we don't receive approval for eylea for other indications, or if approvals are not obtained for sales in other countries, sales and profits will be limited. we have received regulatory approval for sale of eylea for the treatment of wet amd and macular edema following crvo only in the united states and for the treatment of wet amd in the european union, switzerland, australia, colombia, japan, brazil and chile. if we do not receive approval for eylea for other uses, or if approvals for sales in other countries are not obtained, sales will be limited and our potential for profits will be limited. as a result, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be materially impacted. 16 table of contents our sales of eylea are dependent on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third party payers, and changes to such reimbursement may materially harm our sales and revenue and harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. our current sales in the united states of eylea are dependent, in part, on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payers, including private payer healthcare and insurance programs and government programs such as medicare and medicaid. if approved for sale in other countries, such sales will be dependent, in part, on similar programs in these countries. in the united states, there is an increased focus from the federal government and others on analyzing the impact of various regulatory programs on the federal deficit, which could result in increased pressure on federal programs to reduce costs, including limiting federal healthcare expenditures. economic pressure on state budgets may also have a similar impact. a reduction in the availability or extent of reimbursement from u.s. government programs could have a material adverse effect on the sales of eylea. since eylea is too expensive for most patients to afford without health insurance coverage, if adequate coverage and reimbursement by third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid in the united states, is not available, our ability to successfully commercialize eylea will be materially adversely impacted. our sales and potential profits and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be materially harmed. see also " the successful commercialization of our marketed products as well as our late-stage product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if approved, will depend on obtaining coverage and reimbursement for use of these products from third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid in the united states, and these payers may not agree to cover or adequately reimburse for use of our products or may do so at levels that make our products uncompetitive and/or unprofitable, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition ." the commercial success of eylea currently being marketed for the treatment of wet amd and macular edema following crvo is subject to strong competition. the market for eye disease products is very competitive. novartis and genentech are collaborating on the commercialization and further development of a vegf antibody fragment, lucentis for the treatment of wet amd, macular edema following crvo, dme, and other eye indications. lucentis was approved by the fda in june 2006 for the treatment of wet amd and in june 2010 for the treatment of macular edema following rvo, crvo, and brvo. lucentis was also approved by the ema for wet amd in january 2007 and for dme in january 2011. many other companies are working on the development of product candidates and extended delivery devices for the potential treatment of wet amd, dme and rvo including those that act by blocking vegf and vegf receptors, as well as small interfering ribonucleic acids (sirnas) that modulate gene expression. for example, in january 2012, genentech submitted an ind for such an extended delivery device. ophthotech corporation is developing fovista , an aptamer directed against platelet-derived growth factor subunit b (pdgf-b), as a product candidate intended to be used in combination with an anti-vegf therapy in wet amd. in june 2012, ophthotech announced results of a phase 2b study in wet amd that it claimed demonstrated that fovista administered in combination with lucentis resulted in increased visual outcomes compared to lucentis monotherapy. allergan is developing an anti-vegf-a darpin , as well as a dual anti-vegf-a/pdgf-b darpin , and its corresponding backups for the treatment of wet amd and related conditions. in addition, ophthalmologists are using with success off-label, third-party repackaged versions of genentech's approved vegf antagonist, avastin , for the treatment of wet amd, dme, and rvo. the relatively low cost of therapy with avastin in patients with wet amd presents a significant competitive challenge in this indication. long-term, controlled clinical trials comparing lucentis to avastin in the treatment of wet amd are being conducted. one-year data from the comparison of age-related macular degeneration treatments trial (catt) were reported in april 2011 and indicated that avastin dosed monthly was non-inferior to lucentis dosed monthly in the primary efficacy endpoint of mean visual acuity gain at 52 weeks. two-year data from catt were reported in april 2012 and indicated that monthly avastin was non-inferior to monthly lucentis in mean visual acuity gain; as-needed dosing was not non-inferior to monthly dosing. avastin is also being evaluated in eye diseases in trials that have been initiated in the united kingdom, canada, brazil, mexico, germany, israel, and other countries. furthermore, lucentis and off-label use of avastin , present significant competitive challenges as doctors and patients have had significant experience using these medicines. moreover, the reported results of the catt study, combined with the relatively low cost of avastin in treating patients with wet amd, may well exacerbate the competitive challenge which eylea faces in this or other eye indications for which it may be approved. finally, zaltrap has not been manufactured and formulated for use in intravitreal injections, and while we believe that zaltrap would not be well tolerated if administered directly to the eye, there is a risk that third parties may attempt to repackage zaltrap for off-label use and sale for the treatment of wet amd and other diseases of the eye, which would present a potential low-cost competitive threat to eylea for wet amd, macular edema following crvo, or other eye indications. see also we may be unsuccessful in continuing the commercialization of our marketed products or in commercializing our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if approved, which would materially and adversely affect our business, profitability, and future prospects. 17 table of contents our product sales could be reduced by imports from countries where our products are available at lower prices. our sales of products in the united states may be reduced if our products are imported into the united states from lower priced markets, whether legally or illegally. under our arrangement with bayer healthcare, pricing and reimbursement for eylea outside the united states is the responsibility of bayer healthcare. prices for eylea in territories outside the united states will be based on local market economics and competition and are likely to differ from country to country. in the united states, prices for pharmaceuticals are generally higher than in the bordering nations of canada and mexico and our sales of eylea in the united states may be reduced if eylea is marketed in those nations and imported into the united states. in addition, there have been proposals to legalize the import of pharmaceuticals from outside the united states. if such legislation were enacted, our future revenues could be reduced. risks related to the development and approval of our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products if we do not obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our products and product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, we will not be able to market or sell them, which would materially and negatively impact our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. we cannot sell or market products without regulatory approval. if we do not maintain regulatory approval for our products eylea, zaltrap, and arcalyst, and obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, or new indications of our marketed products, including eylea for the treatment of ophthalmologic diseases other than wet amd and macular edema following crvo, the value of our company, our operating results, and our prospects will be materially harmed. our product candidates, including eylea for dme and macular edema following brvo, may not receive regulatory approval. if we are unable to obtain regulatory approval for eylea in dme and macular edema following brvo, or if we are materially delayed in doing so, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition will be materially harmed. in addition, if we fail to maintain regulatory approval for eylea for the treatment of wet amd and macular edema following crvo, we may lose marketing approval and the ability to generate eylea product sales revenue, which would materially and negatively impact our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval for drug products is costly, time-consuming, and highly uncertain. in the united states, we must obtain and maintain approval from the fda for each drug we intend to sell. obtaining fda approval is typically a lengthy and expensive process, and approval is highly uncertain. foreign governments also regulate drugs distributed in their country and approval in any country is likely to be a lengthy and expensive process, and approval is highly uncertain. the fda enforces good clinical practices (gcps) and other regulations through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, clinical research organizations (cros), principal investigators, and trial sites. if we or any of the third parties conducting our clinical studies are determined to have failed to fully comply with gcps, the study protocol or applicable regulations, the clinical data generated in those studies may be deemed unreliable. this could result in non-approval of our product candidates by the fda, or we or the fda may decide to conduct additional audits or require additional clinical studies, which would delay our development programs, require us to incur additional costs, and could substantially harm our business. before approving a new drug or biologic product, the fda requires that the facilities at which the product will be manufactured or advanced through the supply chain be in compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cgmp, requirements and regulations governing the manufacture, shipment and storage of the product. manufacturing product candidates in compliance with these regulatory requirements is complex, time-consuming, and expensive. to be successful, our products must be manufactured in compliance with regulatory requirements, and at competitive costs. if we or any of our product collaborators, or third-party manufacturers, product packagers, labelers, or other parties performing steps in the supply chain are unable to maintain regulatory compliance, the fda can impose regulatory sanctions, including, among other things, refusal to approve a pending application for a new drug or biologic product, or revocation of a pre-existing approval. as a result, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed. in addition to the fda and other regulatory agency regulations in the united states, we are subject to a variety of foreign regulatory requirements governing human clinical trials, manufacturing, marketing and approval of drugs, and commercial sale and distribution of drugs in foreign countries. the foreign regulatory approval process and requirements include all of the risks associated with fda approval as well as country specific regulations, and actions by a regulatory agency in a country or region with respect to a product candidate may have an impact on the approval process for that product candidate in another country or region. whether or not we obtain fda approval for a product in the united states, we must obtain approval of the product by the comparable regulatory authorities in foreign countries before we can conduct clinical trials of or market that product or any other product in those countries. 18 table of contents preclinical and clinical studies required for our product candidates and new indications of our marketed products are expensive and time-consuming, and their outcome is highly uncertain. if any such studies are delayed or yield unfavorable results, regulatory approval for our product candidates or new indications of our marketed products may be delayed or become unobtainable. as described above, we must conduct extensive testing of our product candidates and new indications of our marketed products before we can obtain regulatory approval to market and sell them. we need to conduct both preclinical animal testing and human clinical trials. conducting such studies is a lengthy, time-consuming, and expensive process. these tests and trials may not achieve favorable results for many reasons, including, among others, failure of the product candidate to demonstrate safety or efficacy, the development of serious or life-threatening adverse events (or side effects) caused by or connected with exposure to the product candidate, difficulty in enrolling and maintaining subjects in a clinical trial, lack of sufficient supplies of the product candidate or comparator drug, and the failure of clinical investigators, trial monitors, contractors, consultants, or trial subjects to comply with the trial plan, protocol, or applicable regulations related to good laboratory practices (glps) or gcps. a clinical trial may fail because it did not include and retain a sufficient number of patients to detect the endpoint being measured or reach statistical significance. a clinical trial may also fail because the dose(s) of the investigational drug included in the trial were either too low or too high to determine the optimal effect of the investigational drug in the disease setting. we will need to reevaluate any drug candidate that does not test favorably and either conduct new studies, which are expensive and time consuming, or abandon that drug development program. if preclinical testing yields unfavorable results, product candidates may not advance to clinical trials. the failure of clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of our clinical candidates for the desired indication(s) would preclude the successful development of those candidates for such indication(s), in which event our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed. successful development of our current and future product candidates is uncertain. only a small minority of all research and development programs ultimately result in commercially successful drugs. we are testing eylea in late-stage clinical trials in additional indications. clinical trials may not demonstrate statistically sufficient effectiveness and safety to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for these product candidates in these indications. in a number of instances, we have terminated the development of product candidates due to a lack of or only modest effectiveness. moreover, even if we obtain positive results from preclinical testing or clinical trials, we may not achieve the same success in future trials. many companies in the biopharmaceutical industry, including our company, have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, even after promising results have been obtained in earlier trials. in april 2011, we announced that our phase 3 velour trial of zaltrap met its primary endpoint of improving overall survival in the treatment of patients with previously treated mcrc. based upon these positive results, we and sanofi submitted regulatory applications for marketing approval to the fda and ema, and, in august 2012, the fda approved zaltrap in combination with folfiri chemotherapy regimen for patients with mcrc that is resistant to or has progressed following an oxaliplatin-containing regimen. however, in april 2011, we and sanofi also announced the results from another randomized, double-blind phase 3 trial (venice) that evaluated zaltrap as a first-line treatment for metastatic androgen-independent prostate cancer in combination with docetaxel/prednisone. the venice trial did not meet the pre-specified criterion of improvement in overall survival. in january 2012, roche announced that a phase 3 trial of avastin (bevacizumab) had met the primary endpoint of overall survival in mcrc in patients who had previously received avastin with standard chemotherapy. the positive results of this trial in a similar patient population could impact the potential commercial opportunity for zaltrap in mcrc. we also reported positive results of a phase 2 trial of eylea for the treatment of dme and in the second quarter of 2011 initiated a phase 3 program in that indication. a number of other potential new drugs and biologics which showed promising results in phase 1 and 2 clinical trials subsequently failed to establish sufficient safety and efficacy data to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, and this could occur with respect to subsequent clinical trials of eylea for the treatment of dme. based on the results of three phase 3 studies, we submitted a supplemental bla filing to the fda seeking approval of arcalyst for the prevention of gout flares in patients initiating uric acid-lowering drug therapy. in may 2012, the arthritis advisory committee of the fda voted to recommend against approval of arcalyst for the prevention of gout flares in patients initiating uric acid-lowering drug therapy and, in july 2012, we received a complete response letter from the fda requesting additional information, including clinical data, as well as additional cmc information related to a proposed new dosage form. we have discontinued development of arcalyst for gout. many of our clinical trials are conducted under the oversight of independent data monitoring committees (idmcs). these independent oversight bodies are made up of external experts who review the progress of ongoing clinical trials, including available safety and efficacy data, and make recommendations concerning a trial's continuation, modification, or termination based on interim, unblinded data. any of our ongoing clinical trials may be discontinued or amended in response to recommendations made 19 table of contents by responsible idmcs based on their review of such interim trial results. for example, in september 2009, a phase 3 trial that was evaluating zaltrap as a first-line treatment for metastatic pancreatic cancer in combination with gemcitabine was discontinued at the recommendation of an idmc after a planned analysis of interim efficacy data determined that the trial would not meet its efficacy endpoint. the recommended termination of any of our ongoing late-stage clinical trials by an idmc could negatively impact the future development of our product candidate(s), and our business may be materially harmed. we are studying our antibody candidates in a wide variety of indications in clinical trials. many of these trials are exploratory studies designed to evaluate the safety profile of these compounds and to identify what diseases and uses, if any, are best suited for these product candidates. these product candidates may not demonstrate the requisite efficacy and/or safety profile to support continued development for some or all of the indications that are being, or are planned to be, studied, which would diminish our clinical pipeline and could negatively affect our future prospects and the value of our company. serious complications or side effects in connection with the use of our products and in clinical trials for our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products could cause our regulatory approvals to be revoked or limited or lead to delay or discontinuation of development of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, which could severely harm our business. during the conduct of clinical trials, patients report changes in their health, including illnesses, injuries, and discomforts, to their study doctor. often, it is not possible to determine whether or not the drug candidate being studied caused these conditions. various illnesses, injuries, and discomforts have been reported from time-to-time during clinical trials of our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products. it is possible that as we test our drug candidates or new indications in larger, longer, and more extensive clinical programs, or as use of these drugs becomes more widespread if they receive regulatory approval, illnesses, injuries, and discomforts that were observed in earlier trials, as well as conditions that did not occur or went undetected in previous trials, will be reported by patients. many times, side effects are only detectable after investigational drugs are tested in large scale, phase 3 clinical trials or, in some cases, after they are made available to patients after approval. if additional clinical experience indicates that any of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products has many side effects or causes serious or life-threatening side effects, the development of the product candidate may fail or be delayed, or if the product candidate has received regulatory approval such approval may be revoked, which would severely harm our business. eylea is being studied in diseases of the eye in addition to wet amd and macular edema following crvo. there are many potential safety concerns associated with significant blockade of vegf that may limit our ability to successfully develop and/or commercialize zaltrap and eylea. these serious and potentially life-threatening risks, based on clinical and preclinical experience of vegf inhibitors, include bleeding, intestinal perforation, hypertension, proteinuria, congestive heart failure, heart attack, and stroke. in addition, patients given infusions of any protein, including zaltrap delivered through intravenous administration, may develop severe hypersensitivity reactions or infusion reactions. other vegf blockers have reported side effects that became evident only after large scale trials or after marketing approval when large numbers of patients were treated. there are risks inherent in the intravitreal administration of drugs like eylea, which can cause injury to the eye and other complications. for example, in our phase 3 trials of eylea in wet amd, the most frequent ocular adverse events were conjunctival hemorrhage, macular degeneration, eye pain, retinal hemorrhage, and vitreous floaters. these and other complications or side effects could harm the development and/or commercialization of zaltrap for the treatment of mcrc or eylea for the treatment of diseases of the eye. we are studying regn475, a fully human monoclonal antibody to ngf, in a variety of pain indications, including osteoarthritis of the knee. in december 2010, the fda placed regn475 and other investigational agents targeting ngf on clinical hold after a case of rapidly progressive osteoarthritis leading to joint replacement was seen in another company's anti-ngf program. at that time, the fda expressed concern that this case, which followed previously-reported cases of joint replacements in patients on an anti-ngf drug candidate being developed by a different pharmaceutical company, provided evidence to suggest a class effect. an fda arthritis advisory committee met on march 12, 2012 to discuss possible safety issues related to anti-ngf compounds and voted unanimously in favor of a role for the ongoing development of anti-ngf agents in osteoarthritis. the arthritis advisory committee also voted twenty to one in favor of a role for development of anti-ngf agents to manage the pain associated with conditions for which there are no agents with demonstrated analgesic efficacy. in december 2012, the fda removed the clinical hold on regn475 after reviewing our proposed phase 3 program in osteoarthritis. however, shortly thereafter, the entire class was again placed on clinical hold as a result of preclinical data from other investigational agents targeting ngf in development.there are currently no trials with regn475 that are either enrolling or treating patients. discussions with the fda about regn475 are ongoing. 20 table of contents our product candidates in development are recombinant proteins that could cause an immune response, resulting in the creation of harmful or neutralizing antibodies against the therapeutic protein. in addition to the safety, efficacy, manufacturing, and regulatory hurdles faced by our product candidates, the administration of recombinant proteins frequently causes an immune response, resulting in the creation of antibodies against the therapeutic protein. the antibodies can have no effect or can totally neutralize the effectiveness of the protein, or require that higher doses be used to obtain a therapeutic effect. in some cases, the antibody can cross react with the patient's own proteins, resulting in an auto-immune type disease. whether antibodies will be created can often not be predicted from preclinical or clinical experiments, and their detection or appearance is often delayed, so neutralizing antibodies may be detected at a later date, in some cases even after pivotal clinical trials have been completed. we may be unable to formulate or manufacture our product candidates in a way that is suitable for clinical or commercial use, which would delay or prevent continued development of such candidates and/or receipt of regulatory approval or commercial sale, which could materially harm our business. if we are unable to continue to develop suitable product formulations or manufacturing processes to support large scale clinical testing of our product candidates, including our antibody candidates, we may be unable to supply necessary materials for our clinical trials, which would delay or prevent the development of our product candidates. similarly, if we are unable, directly or through our collaborators or third parties, to supply sufficient quantities of our products or develop formulations of our product candidates suitable for commercial use, we will be unable to obtain regulatory approval for those product candidates. risks related to intellectual property and market exclusivity if we cannot protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets or our patents are insufficient to protect our proprietary rights, our business and competitive position will be harmed. our business requires using sensitive and proprietary technology and other information that we protect as trade secrets. we seek to prevent improper disclosure of these trade secrets through confidentiality agreements. if our trade secrets are improperly disclosed, by our own employees, our collaborators or otherwise, it would help our competitors and adversely affect our business. we will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our rights are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. the patent position of biotechnology companies, including our company, involves complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, enforceability cannot be predicted with certainty. our patents may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented. patent applications filed outside the united states may be challenged by third parties who file an opposition. such opposition proceedings are increasingly common in the european union and are costly to defend. we have pending patent applications in the european patent office and it is likely that we will need to defend patent applications from third-party challengers from time to time in the future. certain patent applications filed in the united states may also be challenged by third parties who file a request for post-grant review under the america invents act of 2011, beginning on september 16, 2012. we expect that post-grant review proceedings will become common in the united states and will be costly to defend. we have pending patent applications in the united states patent and trademark office and it is likely that we will need to defend patent applications from third-party challengers from time to time in the future. our patent rights may not provide us with a proprietary position or competitive advantages against competitors. furthermore, even if the outcome is favorable to us, the enforcement of our intellectual property rights can be extremely expensive and time consuming. we may be restricted in our development, manufacturing, and/or commercialization activities by, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed, third-party patents or other proprietary rights, and the costs and expenses of ongoing patent litigation have been and will likely continue to be significant. our commercial success depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of third parties. other parties may allege that they have blocking patents to our products in clinical development or even to products that have received regulatory approval and are being or have been commercialized, either because they claim to hold proprietary rights to the composition of a product or the way it is manufactured or used. moreover, other parties may allege that they have blocking patents to antibody products made using our velocimmune technology, either because of the way the antibodies are discovered or produced or because of a proprietary composition covering an antibody or the antibody's target. we are aware of issued patents and pending patent applications owned by genentech that claim certain chimeric vegf receptors. we do not believe that zaltrap or eylea infringe any valid claim in these patents or patent applications. we are involved in five patent litigations with genentech, two in the united states and three in europe. in november 2010, we commenced a lawsuit against genentech in the u.s. district court for the southern district of new york (the court), seeking a declaratory judgment that no activities relating to our vegf trap infringe any valid claim of certain genentech patents referred to as the davis-smyth patents (the first davis-smyth case). genentech answered the complaint and asserted counterclaims that our prior or planned activities relating to vegf trap have infringed or will infringe claims of four of the davis-smyth patents and requested a judgment against us for damages, including for willful infringement, and other relief as the court deems appropriate. 21 table of contents on december 31, 2011, we entered into a non-exclusive license and partial settlement agreement relating to ophthalmic sales of eylea in the united states (genentech agreement) that covers making, using, and selling eylea in the united states for the prevention and treatment of human eye diseases and disorders in the united states, and ends the litigation relating to those matters. under the genentech agreement, we received a non-exclusive license to the davis-smyth patents, and certain other technology patents owned or co-owned by genentech. the genentech agreement does not cover any non-u.s. patent rights or non-u.s. patent disputes, and does not cover any use of aflibercept other than for prevention and treatment of human eye diseases and disorders in the united states. the first davis-smyth case is continuing with respect to matters not covered by the genentech agreement. the genentech agreement provides for us to make payments to genentech based on u.s. sales of eylea through may 7, 2016, the date the davis-smyth patents expire. as required by the genentech agreement, in the third quarter of 2012, we made a lump-sum payment of $60.0 million when cumulative u.s. sales of eylea reached $400 million. we will also pay royalties of 4.75% on cumulative u.s. sales of eylea between $400 million and $3 billion and 5.5% on any cumulative u.s. sales of eylea over $3 billion. as a result of the genentech agreement, on january 17, 2012, genentech filed a second amended answer and counterclaim in the first davis-smyth case, in which it amended its counterclaims alleging infringement of four of the davis-smyth patents. on december 23, 2011, genentech initiated a related case in the court against regeneron and sanofi alleging infringement of four of the davis-smyth patents by activities relating to vegf trap (but excluding eylea) (the second davis-smyth case). as in the first davis-smyth case, in the new complaint genentech requests a judgment against us for damages, including for willful infringement, and other relief as the court deems appropriate. on september 21, 2012, genentech asserted two additional davis-smyth patents, and one additional application (which was allowed and issued as a patent on september 25, 2012) in both the first david-smyth case and the second davis-smyth case. we believe genentech's remaining claims in the first davis smyth case and the second davis smyth case are without merit and intend to continue to defend against all of genentech's remaining claims vigorously. however, it is possible that there could be an adverse determination or judgment in either or both cases that would materially harm our business by requiring us to seek a license for matters not covered by the agreement, which may not be available at all or on reasonable terms, or precluding the manufacture, further development, or sale of eylea outside the united states or zaltrap, or resulting in a damage award. in addition, irrespective of the outcome of the davis-smyth cases, we have incurred and will likely continue to incur significant costs and expenses associated with them, which have negatively affected, and will likely continue to negatively affect, our results of operations. an adverse determination in any of the proceedings described herein may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. we have initiated patent-related actions against genentech in germany, the united kingdom, and italy relating in each case to a patent that expired on october 28, 2012. we may initiate other actions in other countries outside the united states, which could have similar or other adverse outcomes that would materially harm our business and which, irrespective of the outcomes, may also entail significant costs and expenses. in the united kingdom, an adverse decision dated march 22, 2012 is under appeal. this decision found the designation of european patent ep 1 238 986 in the united kingdom to be valid and potential acts relating to vegf trap eye in the united kingdom before expiration of the patent on october 28, 2012 to infringe this patent. a negative decision on appeal would result in an order requiring us to pay genentech's recoverable legal costs. we are aware of patents and pending applications owned by roche that claim antibodies to il-6r and methods of treating rheumatoid arthritis with such antibodies. we are developing sarilumab, an antibody to il-6r, for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. although we do not believe that sarilumab infringes any valid claim in these patents or patent applications, roche could initiate a lawsuit for patent infringement and assert its patents are valid and cover sarilumab. we are aware of a u.s. patent jointly owned by genentech and city of hope relating to the production of recombinant antibodies in host cells. we currently produce our antibody product candidates using recombinant antibodies from host cells and may choose to produce additional antibody product candidates in this manner. neither arcalyst, zaltrap, nor eylea are recombinant antibodies. if any of our antibody product candidates are produced in a manner subject to valid claims in the genentech patent, then we may need to obtain a license from genentech, should one be available. genentech has licensed this patent to several different companies under confidential license agreements. if we desire a license for any of our antibody product candidates and are unable to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms or at all, we may be restricted in our ability to use genentech's techniques to make recombinant antibodies in or to import them into the united states. further, we are aware of a number of other third-party patent applications that, if granted with claims as currently drafted, may cover our current or planned activities. it could be determined that our products and/or actions in manufacturing or selling our product candidates infringe such patents. 22 table of contents patent holders in addition to genentech could assert claims against us for damages and seek to prevent us from manufacturing, selling, or developing our drug candidates, and a court may find that we are infringing validly issued patents of third parties. in the event that the manufacture, use, or sale of any of our drug candidates, including eylea or our other late-stage product candidates, infringes on the patents or violates other proprietary rights of third parties, we may be prevented from pursuing product development, manufacturing, and commercialization of those drugs and may be required to pay costly damages. such a result may materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. in any event, legal disputes are likely to be costly and time consuming to defend. we seek to obtain licenses to patents when, in our judgment, such licenses are needed or advisable. if any licenses are required, we may not be able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. the failure to obtain any such license could prevent us from developing or commercializing any one or more of our product candidates, which could severely harm our business. loss or limitation of patent rights, and new regulatory pathways for biosimilar competition, could reduce the duration of market exclusivity for our products. in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, the majority of an innovative product's commercial value is usually realized during the period in which it has market exclusivity. in the united states and some other countries, when market exclusivity expires and generic versions of a product are approved and marketed, there usually are very substantial and rapid declines in the product's sales. if our late-stage product candidates or other clinical candidates are approved for marketing in the united states or elsewhere, market exclusivity for those products will generally be based upon patent rights and/or certain regulatory forms of exclusivity. as described above under " if we cannot protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets or our patents are insufficient to protect our proprietary rights, our business and competitive position will be harmed ", the scope and enforceability of our patent rights may vary from country to country. the failure to obtain patent and other intellectual property rights, or limitations on the use, or the loss, of such rights could be material to us. absent patent protection or regulatory exclusivity for our products, it is possible, both in the united states and elsewhere, that generic and/or biosimilar versions of those products may be approved and marketed which would likely result in substantial and rapid reductions in revenues from sales of those products. under the federal patient protection and affordable care act, or ppaca, enacted in 2010, there is now a new, abbreviated path in the united states for regulatory approval of biosimilar versions of biological products. the ppaca provides a regulatory mechanism that allows for fda approval of biologic drugs that are similar to (but not generic copies of) innovative drugs on the basis of less extensive data than is required by a full bla. under this new regulation, an application for approval of a biosimilar may be filed four years after approval of the innovator product. however, qualified innovative biological products will receive 12 years of regulatory exclusivity, meaning that the fda may not approve a biosimilar version until 12 years after the innovative biological product was first approved by the fda. however, the term of regulatory exclusivity may not remain at 12 years in the united states and could be shortened. the increased likelihood of biosimilar competition has increased the risk of loss of innovators' market exclusivity. due to this risk, and uncertainties regarding patent protection, if our late-stage product candidates or other clinical candidates are approved for marketing, it is not possible to predict the length of market exclusivity for a particular product with certainty based solely on the expiration of the relevant patent(s) or the current forms of regulatory exclusivity. it is also not possible to predict changes in united states regulatory law that might reduce biological product regulatory exclusivity. the loss of market exclusivity for a product would likely materially and negatively affect revenues from product sales of that product and thus our financial results and condition. 23 table of contents risks related to manufacturing and supply we rely on limited internal and contracted manufacturing and supply chain capacity, which could result in our being unable to continue to successfully commercialize eylea and to commercialize our other product candidates or other indications for our marketed products if they receive regulatory approval. our manufacturing facility would be inadequate to produce the active pharmaceutical ingredients of (a) eylea, zaltrap, and arcalyst, and (b) our antibody product candidates in sufficient clinical quantities if our clinical pipeline advances as planned. in addition to expanding our internal capacity, we intend to rely on our corporate collaborators, as well as contract manufacturers, to produce commercial quantities of drug material needed for commercialization of our products to the extent such quantities are not manufactured at our own facility. we rely entirely on third-parties and our collaborators for filling and finishing services. generally, in order for other parties to perform any step in the manufacturing and supply chain, we must transfer technology to the other party which can be time consuming and may not be successfully accomplished without considerable cost and expense, or at all. we will have to depend on these other parties to perform effectively on a timely basis and to comply with regulatory requirements. if for any reason they are unable to do so, and as a result we are unable to directly or through such third parties manufacture and supply sufficient commercial quantities of our products on acceptable terms, or if we should encounter delays or other difficulties in our relationships with our corporate collaborators, third-party manufacturers, or other parties involved in our supply chain which adversely affect the timely manufacture and supply of our products, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed. expanding our manufacturing capacity will be costly and we may be unsuccessful in doing so in a timely manner, which could delay or prevent the launch and successful commercialization of our marketed products and late-stage product candidates or other indications for our marketed products if they are approved for marketing and could jeopardize our current and future clinical development programs. as described under manufacturing in item 1 above, we have recently commenced construction of additional manufacturing space at our rensselaer, new york site to increase our manufacturing capacity and, in the future, we may lease, operate, purchase, or construct additional facilities to conduct expanded manufacturing activities. expanding our manufacturing capacity to supply commercial quantities of the active pharmaceutical ingredients for our marketed products and our late-stage product candidates if they are approved for marketing, and to supply clinical drug material to support the continued growth of our clinical programs, will require substantial additional expenditures and various regulatory approvals and permits. in addition, we will need to hire and train significant numbers of employees and managerial personnel to staff our expanding manufacturing and supply chain operations. start-up costs can be large and scale-up entails significant risks related to process development and manufacturing yields. in addition, we may face difficulties or delays in developing or acquiring the necessary production equipment and technology to manufacture sufficient quantities of our product candidates at reasonable costs and in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. the fda and analogous foreign regulatory authorities must determine that our existing and any expanded manufacturing facilities comply, or continue to comply, with cgmp requirements for both clinical and commercial production and license them, or continue to license them, accordingly, and such facilities must also comply with applicable environmental, safety, and other governmental permitting requirements. we may not successfully expand or establish sufficient manufacturing capabilities or manufacture our products economically or in compliance with cgmps and other regulatory requirements, and we and our collaborators may not be able to build or procure additional capacity in the required timeframe to meet commercial demand for our late-stage product candidates if they receive regulatory approval, and to continue to meet the requirements of our clinical programs. this would interfere with our efforts to successfully commercialize eylea, zaltrap, and arcalyst and could also delay or require us to discontinue one or more of our clinical development programs. as a result, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition could be materially harmed. our ability to manufacture our products may be impaired if any of our manufacturing activities, or the activities of third parties involved in our manufacture and supply chain, are found to infringe third-party patents. our ability to continue to manufacture eylea, zaltrap, and arcalyst in our rensselaer, new york facilities, or to utilize third parties to produce our products, to supply raw materials or other products, or to perform fill/finish services or other steps in our manufacture and supply chain, depends on our and their ability to operate without infringing the patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. other parties may allege that our manufacturing activities, or the activities of third parties involved in our manufacture and supply chain, infringe patents or other intellectual property rights. a judicial decision in favor of one or more parties making such allegations could preclude the manufacture of our products where those intellectual property rights apply which could materially harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. 24 table of contents if sales of eylea and zaltrap do not meet the levels currently expected, or if the launch of new indications for eylea or of any of our product candidates is delayed or unsuccessful, we may face costs related to unused capacity at our manufacturing facilities and at the facilities of third parties. we have large-scale manufacturing operations in rensselaer, new york. we use our facilities to produce bulk product of arcalyst for the treatment of caps, bulk product of eylea for the treatment of wet amd and macular edema following crvo, bulk product of zaltrap for the treatment of patients with mcrc that is resistant to or has progressed following an oxaliplatin-containing regimen, and clinical and preclinical candidates for ourselves and our collaborations, and plan to use such facilities to produce bulk product for commercial supply of new indications of our marketed products and new product candidates if they are approved for marketing. if our clinical candidates are discontinued or their clinical development is delayed, if the launch of new indications for our marketed products or new product candidates is delayed or does not occur, or if such products are launched and the launch is unsuccessful or the product is subsequently recalled or marketing approval is rescinded, we may have to absorb one hundred percent of related overhead costs and inefficiencies, as well as similar costs of third-party contract manufacturers performing services for us. third-party service or supply failures, or other failures, business interruptions, or natural disasters affecting our manufacturing facilities in rensselaer, new york or the facilities of any other party participating in the supply chain, would adversely affect our ability to supply our products. we currently manufacture all of our bulk drug materials at our manufacturing facilities in rensselaer, new york. we would be unable to manufacture these materials if our rensselaer facilities were to cease production due to regulatory requirements or actions, business interruptions, labor shortages or disputes, contaminations, fire, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, or other problems at the facilities. also, certain raw materials or other products necessary for the manufacture and formulation of eylea, zaltrap, arcalyst, and our product candidates are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. in addition, we rely on certain third parties to perform filling, finishing, distribution, laboratory testing, and other services related to the manufacture of eylea, zaltrap, and arcalyst, and our product candidates, and to supply various raw materials and other products. we would be unable to obtain these raw materials, other products, or services for an indeterminate period of time if any of these third parties were to cease or interrupt production or otherwise fail to supply these materials, products, or services to us for any reason, including due to regulatory requirements or actions, adverse financial developments at or affecting the supplier, failure by the supplier to comply with cgmps, business interruptions, or labor shortages or disputes. this, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our ability to manufacture or supply eylea, zaltrap, arcalyst, and our product candidates, which could materially and adversely affect our business and future prospects. certain of the raw materials required in the manufacture and the formulation of our product candidates may be derived from biological sources, including mammalian tissues, bovine serum, and human serum albumin. there are certain european regulatory restrictions on using these biological source materials. if we are required to substitute for these sources to comply with european regulatory requirements, our clinical development activities may be delayed or interrupted. 25 table of contents if we fail to meet the stringent requirements of governmental regulation in the manufacture of drug products or product candidates, we could incur substantial remedial costs, delays in the development or approval of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products and/or in their commercial launch if they obtain regulatory approval, and a reduction in sales. we and our third-party providers are required to maintain compliance with cgmps, and are subject to inspections by the fda or comparable agencies in other jurisdictions to confirm such compliance. changes of suppliers or modifications of methods of manufacturing may require amending our application(s) to the fda or such comparable foreign agencies and acceptance of the change by the fda or such comparable foreign agencies prior to release of product(s). because we produce multiple products and product candidates at our facility in rensselaer, new york, including eylea, zaltrap, and arcalyst, there are increased risks associated with cgmp compliance. our inability, or the inability of our third-party fill/finish or other service providers, to demonstrate ongoing cgmp compliance could require us to engage in lengthy and expensive remediation efforts, withdraw or recall product, halt or interrupt clinical trials, and/or interrupt commercial supply of any marketed products, and could also delay or prevent our obtaining regulatory approval for our late-stage product candidates or new indications for our marketed products. any delay, interruption, or other issue that arises in the manufacture, fill/finish, packaging, or storage of any drug product or product candidate as a result of a failure of our facilities or the facilities or operations of third parties to pass any regulatory agency inspection or maintain cgmp compliance could significantly impair our ability to develop, obtain approval for, and successfully commercialize our products, which would substantially harm our business and prospects. any finding of non-compliance could also increase our costs, cause us to delay the development of our product candidates, result in delay in our obtaining, or our not obtaining, regulatory approval of product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, and cause us to lose revenue from any marketed products, which could be seriously detrimental to our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. risks related to commercialization of products we may be unsuccessful in continuing the commercialization of our marketed products or in commercializing our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if approved, which would materially and adversely affect our business, profitability, and future prospects. even if clinical trials demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of any of our product candidates for a specific disease and the necessary regulatory approvals are obtained, the commercial success of any of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products will depend upon, among other things, their acceptance by patients, the medical community, and third-party payers and on our and our collaborators' ability to successfully manufacture, market and distribute those products in substantial commercial quantities or to establish and manage the required infrastructure to do so, including large-scale information technology systems and a large-scale distribution network. establishing and maintaining sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities are expensive and time-consuming. even if we obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates or new indications, if they are not successfully commercialized, we will not be able to recover the significant investment we have made in developing such products and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be severely harmed. our product candidates are delivered either by intravenous infusion or by intravitreal or subcutaneous injections, which are generally less well received by patients than tablet or capsule delivery and this could adversely affect the commercial success of those products if they receive marketing approval. currently, we have three marketed products, eylea, zaltrap, and arcalyst. while we have established our own sales and marketing organization for eylea in the united states for the treatment of wet amd and macular edema following crvo, we have limited commercialization experience and we have no sales, marketing, commercial, or distribution capabilities outside the united states. in addition, eylea faces intense competition from lucentis and from off-label use of avastin , both of which have been on the market for a number of years and, potentially, from new competitive products currently in clinical development. we expect that the continued commercial success of eylea will depend on many factors, including the following: the effectiveness of our and bayer healthcare's commercial strategies for the launch and marketing of eylea in and outside the united states, respectively, including pricing strategy and the effectiveness of efforts to obtain, and the timing of obtaining, adequate third-party reimbursements; maintaining and successfully monitoring commercial manufacturing arrangements for eylea with third parties who perform fill/finish or other steps in the manufacture of eylea to ensure that they meet our standards and those of regulatory authorities, including the fda, which extensively regulate and monitor pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities; our ability to meet the demand for commercial supplies of eylea; our ability to effectively communicate to the marketplace the benefits of the dosing regimen of eylea as compared to the dosing regimen of lucentis , and the willingness of retinal specialists and patients to switch from lucentis or off-label use of avastin to eylea; 26 table of contents the ability of patients, retinal specialists, and other providers to obtain and maintain sufficient coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid in the united states and other government and private payers in the united states and foreign jurisdictions; our ability to maintain sales of eylea in the face of new competitive products currently in clinical development; and the effect of new health care legislation currently being implemented in the united states. under the terms of our license and collaboration agreement with bayer healthcare, we rely on bayer healthcare for sales, marketing, and distribution of eylea in countries outside the united states. if we and bayer healthcare are unsuccessful in continuing to commercialize eylea, our ability to sustain profitability would be materially impaired. in addition, if we or our collaborators are unable to successfully commercialize new product candidates or new indications for our marketed product, our future prospects would be materially impaired. our marketed products are subject to significant competition, and our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if any are approved for marketing, may face significant competition. there is substantial competition in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries from biotechnology, pharmaceutical, and chemical companies. many of our competitors have substantially greater research, preclinical and clinical product development and manufacturing capabilities, and financial, marketing, and human resources than we do. our smaller competitors may also enhance their competitive position if they acquire or discover patentable inventions, form collaborative arrangements, or merge with large pharmaceutical companies. even if we achieve commercialization of our product candidates, our competitors have achieved, and may continue to achieve, product commercialization before our products are approved for marketing and sale. as previously noted, genentech has an approved vegf antagonist, avastin , on the market for treating certain cancers and many different pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are working to develop competing vegf antagonists, including novartis, amgen, inc., imclone llc/eli lilly, pfizer, inc., astrazeneca, and glaxosmithkline. some of these molecules may offer competitive advantages over our molecule. each of pfizer, onyx (together with its partner bayer healthcare), and glaxosmithkline are marketing and selling oral medications that target tumor cell growth and new vasculature formation that fuels the growth of tumors. it will be difficult for zaltrap to compete against avastin and the fda approved kinase inhibitors, because doctors and patients will have significant experience using these medicines. in addition, an oral medication may be considerably less expensive for patients than a biologic medication, providing a competitive advantage to companies that market such products. the market for eye disease products is also very competitive. novartis and genentech are collaborating on the commercialization and further development of a vegf antibody fragment, lucentis for the treatment of wet amd, macular edema following rvo, dme, and other eye indications. lucentis was approved by the fda in june 2006 for the treatment of wet amd and in june 2010 for the treatment of macular edema following rvo, crvo, and brvo. lucentis was also approved by the ema for wet amd in january 2007 and for dme in january 2011. many other companies are working on the development of product candidates and extended delivery devices for the potential treatment of wet amd, dme and rvo including those that act by blocking vegf and vegf receptors, as well as sirnas that modulate gene expression. for example, in january 2012, genentech submitted an ind for such an extended delivery device. ophthotech corporation is developing fovista , an aptamer directed against pdgf- , as a product candidate intended to be used in combination with an anti-vegf therapy. in june 2012, ophthotech announced results of a phase 2b study that it claimed demonstrated that fovista administered in combination with lucentis resulted in increased visual outcomes compared to lucentis monotherapy. allergan is developing an anti-vegf-a darpin , as well as a dual anti-vegf-a/pdgf- darpin , and its corresponding backups for the treatment of wet amd and related conditions. allergan has announced that it expects phase 2 data in wet amd from its anti-vegf-a darpin 2013. in addition, ophthalmologists are using with success off-label, third-party repackaged versions of genentech's approved vegf antagonist, avastin , for the treatment of wet amd, dme, and macular edema following rvo.long-term, controlled clinical trials comparing lucentis to avastin in the treatment of wet amd are being conducted. one-year data from the catt study were reported in april 2011 and indicated that avastin dosed monthly was non-inferior to lucentis dosed monthly in the primary efficacy endpoint of mean visual acuity gain at 52 weeks. two-year data from catt were reported in april 2012 and indicated that avastin was non-inferior to lucentis in mean visual acuity gain; as-needed dosing was not non-inferior to monthly dosing. it may be difficult for eylea in this or other eye indications for which it may be approved to compete against lucentis and off-label use of avastin because doctors and patients have had significant experience using these medicines. moreover, the reported results of the catt study, combined with the relatively low cost of avastin in treating patients with wet amd, may well exacerbate the competitive challenge which eylea will face in this or other eye indications for which it may be approved. in addition, while we believe that zaltrap would not be well tolerated if administered directly to the eye, there is a risk that third parties will attempt to repackage zaltrap for off-label use and sale for the treatment of wet amd and other diseases of the eye, which would present a potential low-cost competitive threat to eylea for wet amd, macular edema following crvo, or other eye indications. 27 table of contents there are both small molecules and antibodies in development by other companies that are designed to block the synthesis of il-1 or inhibit the signaling of il-1. for example, eli lilly, xoma (in collaboration with servier), and novartis are each developing antibodies to il-1 and both amgen and medimmune are developing antibodies to the il-1 receptor. in 2009, novartis received regulatory approval in the united states and europe for ilaris , a fully human anti-interleukin-1 (il-1 ) antibody, for the treatment of caps. ilaris is also in development for atherosclerosis and a number of other inflammatory diseases. novartis' il-1 antibody and these other drug candidates could offer competitive advantages over arcalyst. for example, ilaris is dosed once every eight weeks compared to the once-weekly dosing regimen for arcalyst. the successful development and/or commercialization of these competing molecules could adversely affect sales of arcalyst for the treatment of caps. our earlier stage clinical candidates in development are all fully human monoclonal antibodies, which were generated using our velocimmune technology. our antibody generation technologies and earlier-stage clinical candidates face competition from many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies using various technologies. numerous other companies are developing therapeutic antibody products. companies such as pfizer, johnson &amp; johnson, astrazeneca, amgen, biogen idec, novartis, genentech/roche, bristol-myers squib, abbvie, and glaxosmithkline have generated therapeutic products that are currently in development or on the market that are derived from recombinant dna that comprise human antibody sequences. we are aware of several pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies actively engaged in the research and development of antibody products against targets that are also the targets of our early-stage product candidates. for example, pfizer, johnson &amp; johnson, and abbvie are developing antibody product candidates against ngf. genentech/roche is marketing an antibody against il-6r (tocilizumab) for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, and several other companies, including centocor/johnson &amp; johnson, and bristol-myers squibb, have antibodies against il-6 in clinical development for this disease. glaxosmithkline, in partnership with oncomed pharmaceuticals, has a dll4 antibody in clinical development for the treatment of solid tumors. aerovance has two formulations of a biologic directed against il-4 in clinical development. amgen previously had an antibody against il-4r in clinical development for the treatment of asthma. several companies, including amgen, pfizer, and roche, have development programs for antibodies against pcsk9. amgen, pfizer, and astrazeneca have development programs underway for antibodies against ang2. alnylam, in partnership with the medicines company, has a clinical program underway with an rnai molecule against pcsk9. if any of these or other competitors announces a successful clinical study involving a product that may be competitive with one of our product candidates or the grant of marketing approval by a regulatory agency for a competitive product, such developments may have an adverse effect on our business or future prospects. the successful commercialization of our marketed products, as well as our late-stage product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if approved, will depend on obtaining coverage and reimbursement for use of these products from third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid in the united states, and these payers may not agree to cover or adequately reimburse for use of our products or may do so at levels that make our products uncompetitive and/or unprofitable, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. our product candidates, if commercialized, may be significantly more expensive than traditional drug treatments. our future revenues and profitability will be adversely affected in a material manner if united states and foreign governmental, private third-party insurers and payers, and other third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid, do not agree to defray or reimburse the cost of our products to the patients. if these entities do not provide coverage and reimbursement with respect to our products or provide an insufficient level of coverage and reimbursement, our products may be too costly for many patients to afford them, and physicians may not prescribe them. many third-party payers cover only selected drugs, making drugs that are not preferred by such payers more expensive for patients, and require prior authorization or failure on another type of treatment before covering a particular drug. in particular, payers may impose these obstacles to coverage on higher-priced drugs, as our product candidates are likely to be. government and other third-party payers are challenging the prices charged for healthcare products and increasingly limiting, and attempting to limit, both coverage and level of reimbursement for prescription drugs. in march 2010, the ppaca and a related reconciliation bill were enacted in the united states. this legislation imposes cost containment measures that are likely to adversely affect the amount of reimbursement for our future products. the full effects of this legislation are unknown at this time and will not be known until regulations and guidance are issued by cms and other federal and state agencies. further, in september 2011 the office of inspector general (oig) of the department of health and human services issued a report entitled review of medicare part b avastin and lucentis treatments for age-related macular degeneration in which the oig details possible savings to the medicare program by using off-label avastin rather than lucentis for the treatment of wet amd. some states are also considering legislation that would control the prices of drugs, and state medicaid programs are increasingly requesting manufacturers to pay supplemental rebates and requiring prior authorization by the state program for use of any drug for which supplemental rebates are not being paid. it is likely that federal and state legislatures and health agencies will continue to focus on additional health care reform in the future that will impose additional constraints on prices and reimbursements for our products. 28 table of contents since eylea for the treatment of wet amd, macular edema following crvo, and other eye diseases, and zaltrap for the treatment of patients with mcrc that is resistant to or has progressed following an oxaliplatin-containing regimen, will likely be too expensive for most patients to afford without health insurance coverage, if these products are unable to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement by third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid in the united states, our ability to successfully commercialize these products would be materially adversely impacted. third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid in the united states, may not cover and/or reimburse for these products at levels required for us to successfully commercialize these products. any limitation imposed by third-party payers on the use of our products if they are approved for marketing, or any action or decision by cms or analogous foreign agencies or authorities which for any reason denies coverage or reimbursement for our products or provides coverage or reimbursement at levels that harm our products' competitiveness or leads to lower prices for those products, will have a material negative effect on our ability to sustain profitability. in certain foreign countries, pricing, coverage, and level of reimbursement of prescription drugs are subject to governmental control, and we and our collaborators may be unable to obtain coverage, pricing, and/or reimbursement on terms that are favorable to us or necessary for us or our collaborators to successfully commercialize our products in those countries. in some foreign countries, the proposed pricing for a drug must be approved before it may be lawfully marketed. the requirements governing drug pricing vary widely from country to country. for example, the european union provides options for its member states to restrict the range of medicinal products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices of medicinal products for human use. a member state may approve a specific price for the medicinal product or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the medicinal product on the market. our results of operations may suffer if we or our collaborators are unable to market our products in foreign countries or if coverage and reimbursement for our products in foreign countries is limited or delayed. we are dependent upon a small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of or significant reduction in sales to these customers would adversely affect our results of operations. we sell eylea in the united states to three distributors and several specialty pharmacies. we sell arcalyst in the united states to two specialty pharmacies. under these distribution models, the distributors and specialty pharmacies generally take physical delivery of product. for eylea, the distributors and specialty pharmacies generally sell the product directly to healthcare providers, whereas for arcalyst, the specialty pharmacies sell the product directly to patients. for the year ended december 31, 2012, we recorded 78% of our total gross product revenue from sales to a single distributor, besse medical, a subsidiary of amerisourcebergen corporation. we expect this significant customer concentration to continue for the foreseeable future. our ability to generate and grow sales of eylea will depend, in part, on the extent to which our distributors and specialty pharmacies are able to provide adequate distribution of eylea to healthcare providers. although we believe we can find additional distributors , if necessary, our revenue during any period of disruption could suffer and we might incur additional costs. in addition, these customers are responsible for a significant portion of our net trade accounts receivable balances. the loss of any large customer, a significant reduction in sales we make to them, any cancellation of orders they have made with us, or any failure to pay for the products we have shipped to them could adversely affect our results of operations. regulatory and litigation risks if the testing or use of our products harms people, we could be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims. the testing, manufacturing, marketing, and sale of drugs for use in people expose us to product liability risk. any informed consent or waivers obtained from people who enroll in our clinical trials may not protect us from liability or the cost of litigation. we may also be subject to claims by patients who use our approved products, or our product candidates if those product candidates receive regulatory approval and become commercially available, that they have been injured by a side effect associated with the drug. we may face product liability claims and be found responsible even if injury arises from the acts or omissions of our third-party fill/finish or other providers. our product liability insurance may not cover all potential liabilities or may not completely cover any liability arising from any such litigation. moreover, in the future we may not have access to liability insurance or be able to maintain our insurance on acceptable terms. 29 table of contents if we market and sell approved products in a way that violates federal or state healthcare laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. in addition to fda and related regulatory requirements, we are subject to health care fraud and abuse laws, such as the federal false claims act, the anti-kickback provisions of the federal social security act, and other state and federal laws and regulations. federal and state anti-kickback laws prohibit, among other things, payments or other remuneration to induce or reward someone to purchase, prescribe, endorse, or recommend a product that is reimbursed under federal or state healthcare programs. if we provide payments or other remuneration to a healthcare professional to induce the prescribing of our products, we could face liability under state and federal anti-kickback laws. federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, such as allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; reporting to pricing services inflated average wholesale prices that were then used by federal programs to set reimbursement rates; engaging in promotion for uses that the fda has not approved, known as off-label uses, that caused claims to be submitted to medicaid for non-covered off-label uses, and submitting inflated best price information to the medicaid rebate program. the majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payer. sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer's products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines, and imprisonment. even if it is determined that we have not violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which would harm our business and financial results and condition. because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the safe harbors, it is possible that some of our business activities could be challenged under one or more of such laws. in recent years, several states and localities, including california, the district of columbia, massachusetts, minnesota, nevada, new mexico, vermont, and west virginia, have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, and file periodic reports with the state or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, and other activities. similar requirements are being considered in other states. in addition, as part of the ppaca, pharmaceutical companies will be required to file reports with the federal government regarding payments made to healthcare professionals. many of these requirements are new and uncertain, and the penalties for failure to comply with these requirements are unclear. nonetheless, if we are found not to be in full compliance with these laws, we could face enforcement actions, fines, and other penalties, and could receive adverse publicity, which would harm our business and financial results and condition. risks from the improper conduct of employees, agents, or contractors, or collaborators could adversely affect our business or reputation. we cannot ensure that our compliance controls, policies, and procedures will in every instance protect us from acts committed by our employees, agents, contractors, or collaborators that would violate the laws or regulations of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including without limitation, healthcare, employment, foreign corrupt practices, environmental, competition, and privacy laws. such improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations, and monetary and injunctive penalties, and could adversely impact our ability to conduct business, operating results, and reputation. our operations may involve hazardous materials and are subject to environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations. compliance with these laws and regulations is costly, and we may incur substantial liability arising from our activities involving the use of hazardous materials. as a biopharmaceutical company with significant manufacturing operations, we are subject to extensive environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations, including those governing the use of hazardous materials. our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of chemicals, viruses, radioactive compounds, and other hazardous materials. the cost of compliance with environmental, health, and safety regulations is substantial. if an accident involving these materials or an environmental discharge were to occur, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, or face regulatory actions, which could exceed our resources or insurance coverage. 30 table of contents our business is subject to increasingly complex corporate governance, public disclosure, and accounting requirements and regulations that could adversely affect our business and financial results and condition. we are subject to changing rules and regulations of various federal and state governmental authorities as well as the stock exchange on which our common stock is listed. these entities, including the securities and exchange commission (sec), and the nasdaq stock market llc, have issued a significant number of new and increasingly complex requirements and regulations over the course of the last several years and continue to develop additional requirements and regulations in response to laws enacted by congress, including the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and, most recently, the dodd-frank wall street reform and protection act, or the dodd-frank act. there are significant corporate governance and executive compensation-related provisions in the dodd-frank act that expressly authorized or required the sec to adopt additional rules in these areas. our efforts to comply with these requirements and regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, an increase in expenses and a diversion of management's time from other business activities. changes in laws and regulations affecting the healthcare industry could adversely affect our business. all aspects of our business, including research and development, manufacturing, marketing, pricing, sales, litigation, and intellectual property rights, are subject to extensive legislation and regulation. changes in applicable federal and state laws and agency regulations could have a materially negative impact on our business. these include: changes in the fda and foreign regulatory processes for new therapeutics that may delay or prevent the approval of any of our current or future product candidates; new laws, regulations, or judicial decisions related to healthcare availability or the payment for healthcare products and services, including prescription drugs, that would make it more difficult for us to market and sell products once they are approved by the fda or foreign regulatory agencies; changes in fda and foreign regulations that may require additional safety monitoring prior to or after the introduction of new products to market, which could materially increase our costs of doing business; and changes in fda and foreign cgmps that may make it more difficult and costly for us to maintain regulatory compliance and/or manufacture our marketed product and product candidates in accordance with cgmps. as described above, the ppaca and potential regulations thereunder easing the entry of competing follow-on biologics into the marketplace, other new legislation or implementation of existing statutory provisions on importation of lower-cost competing drugs from other jurisdictions, and legislation on comparative effectiveness research are examples of previously enacted and possible future changes in laws that could adversely affect our business. 31 table of contents risks related to our reliance on third parties if our antibody collaboration with sanofi is terminated, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition, and our ability to discover, develop, manufacture, and commercialize our pipeline of product candidates in the time expected, or at all, would be materially harmed. we rely heavily on funding from sanofi to support our target discovery and antibody research and development programs. sanofi has committed to pay up to $160 million per year, or a total of $1.28 billion, between 2010 and 2017 to fund our efforts to identify and validate drug discovery targets and pre-clinically develop fully human monoclonal antibodies against such targets. sanofi has a one-time option to adjust the maximum reimbursement amount down to $120 million per year commencing in 2014 if over the prior two years certain specified criteria are not satisfied. if this downward adjustment occurs, it will reduce our resources available for antibody discovery activities and negatively affect our clinical pipeline. sanofi also initially funds almost all of the development expenses incurred by both companies in connection with the clinical development of antibodies that sanofi elects to co-develop with us. we rely on sanofi to fund these activities. in addition, with respect to those antibodies that sanofi elects to co-develop with us, such as sarilumab, regn727, regn668, regn421, regn910, and regn1033, we rely on sanofi to lead much of the clinical development efforts and assist with obtaining regulatory approval, particularly outside the united states. we also rely on sanofi to lead the commercialization efforts to support all of the antibody products that are co-developed by sanofi and us if they receive regulatory approval. if sanofi does not elect to co-develop the antibodies that we discover or opts-out of their development, we would be required to fund and oversee on our own the clinical trials, any regulatory responsibilities, and the ensuing commercialization efforts to support those antibody products. for example, during 2011 and 2012, sanofi elected not to continue co-development of regn846 and regn475, and decided not to opt-in to the regn1154 and regn1500 programs. if sanofi terminates the antibody collaboration or fails to comply with its payment obligations thereunder, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be materially harmed. we would be required to either expend substantially more resources than we have anticipated to support our research and development efforts, which could require us to seek additional funding that might not be available on favorable terms or at all, or materially cut back on such activities. even though none of the antibodies from this collaboration may ever be successfully developed and commercialized, if sanofi does not perform its obligations with respect to antibodies that it elects to co-develop, our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize these antibody product candidates will be significantly adversely affected. if our collaboration with sanofi for zaltrap is terminated, or sanofi materially breaches its obligations thereunder, our business, prospects, and financial condition, and our ability to develop and commercialize zaltrap would be materially harmed. we rely heavily on sanofi to lead much of the development of zaltrap and the commercialization of zaltrap. if sanofi fails to perform its obligations in a timely manner, or at all, our ability to develop and commercialize zaltrap in previously-treated mcrc will be significantly adversely affected. sanofi has the right to terminate its collaboration agreement with us at any time upon twelve months advance notice. if sanofi were to terminate its collaboration agreement with us, we would not have the resources or skills to replace those of our collaborator, which we would have to develop or outsource at substantial additional costs to us. in particular, we have limited commercial capabilities outside the united states and would have to develop or outsource these capabilities. termination of the sanofi collaboration agreement for zaltrap would create substantial new and additional risks to the successful development and commercialization of zaltrap. 32 table of contents if our collaboration with bayer healthcare for eylea is terminated, or bayer healthcare materially breaches its obligations thereunder, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition, and our ability to continue to develop eylea and commercialize eylea outside the united states in the time expected, or at all, would be materially harmed. we rely heavily on bayer healthcare to assist with the development, and the commercialization outside the united states, of eylea. under our agreement with them, bayer healthcare is required to fund approximately half of the development expenses incurred by both companies in connection with the global eylea development program. as the eylea program continues, we will continue to rely on bayer healthcare to assist with funding the eylea development program, continue to lead the development of eylea outside the united states, obtain regulatory approval outside the united states, and provide all sales, marketing, and commercial support for the product outside the united states. in particular, bayer healthcare has responsibility for selling eylea outside the united states using its sales force and in japan, together with santen pharmaceuticals co. ltd. pursuant to a co-promotion and distribution agreement with bayer healthcare's japanese affiliate. eylea has received regulatory approvals for the treatment of wet amd in australia, japan, and certain european and latin american countries. while we cannot assure you that eylea will receive additional regulatory approvals outside the united states or be successfully commercialized, if bayer healthcare and, in japan, santen do not perform their obligations in a timely manner, or at all, our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize eylea outside the united states will be significantly adversely affected. bayer healthcare has the right to terminate its collaboration agreement with us at any time upon six or twelve months advance notice, depending on the circumstances giving rise to termination. if bayer healthcare were to terminate its collaboration agreement with us, we would not have the resources or skills to replace those of our partner, which could require us to seek additional funding or another collaboration that might not be available on favorable terms or at all, and could cause significant delays in the development and/or commercialization of eylea outside the united states and result in substantial additional costs to us. we have limited commercial capabilities outside the united states and would have to develop or outsource these capabilities. termination of the bayer healthcare collaboration agreement would create substantial new and additional risks to the successful development and commercialization of eylea, particularly outside the united states. our collaborators and service providers may fail to perform adequately in their efforts to support the development, manufacture, and commercialization of our drug candidates and current and future products. we depend upon third-party collaborators, including sanofi, bayer healthcare, and service providers such as cros, outside testing laboratories, clinical investigator sites, and third-party manufacturers, fill/finish, and product packagers and labelers, to assist us in the manufacture and preclinical and clinical development of our product candidates. we also depend, or will depend, on some of these third parties in connection with the commercialization of eylea for the treatment of wet amd and macular edema following crvo, zaltrap for the treatment of patients with mcrc, arcalyst for the treatment of caps, and our late-stage product candidates and new indications for our marketed products if they are approved for marketing. if any of our existing collaborators or service providers breaches or terminates its agreement with us or does not perform its development or manufacturing services under an agreement in a timely manner or in compliance with applicable gmps, glps, or gcp standards, we could experience additional costs, delays, and difficulties in the manufacture or development of, or in obtaining approval by regulatory authorities for, or successfully commercializing our product candidates. we rely on third-party service providers to support the distribution of eylea and arcalyst in the united states and for many other related activities in connection with the commercialization of these marketed products. despite our arrangements with them, these third parties may not perform adequately. if these service providers do not perform their services adequately, our sales of eylea for the treatment of wet amd and macular edema following crvo and arcalyst for the treatment of caps will suffer. risk related to employees we are dependent on our key personnel and if we cannot recruit and retain leaders in our research, development, manufacturing, and commercial organizations, our business will be harmed. we are highly dependent on certain of our executive officers, other key members of our senior management team, and our chairman. if we are not able to retain any of these persons, our business may suffer. in particular, we depend on the services of p. roy vagelos, m.d., the chairman of our board of directors, leonard s. schleifer, m.d., ph.d., our president and chief executive officer, george d. yancopoulos, m.d., ph.d., our chief scientific officer and president, regeneron laboratories, and neil stahl, ph.d., our senior vice president, research and development sciences. as we commercialize eylea in the united states for the treatment of wet amd and macular edema following crvo, we are also be highly dependent on the expertise and services of members of our senior management leading these commercialization efforts. there is intense competition in the biotechnology industry for qualified scientists and managerial personnel in the development, manufacture, and commercialization of drugs. we may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary to continue to advance our business and achieve our strategic objectives. 33 table of contents information technology risks significant disruptions of information technology systems or breaches of data security could adversely affect our business. our business is increasingly dependent on critical, complex, and interdependent information technology systems, including internet-based systems, to support business processes as well as internal and external communications. the size and complexity of our computer systems make them potentially vulnerable to breakdown, malicious intrusion, and computer viruses which may result in the impairment of production and key business processes. in addition, our systems are potentially vulnerable to data security breaches-whether by employees or others-which may expose sensitive data to unauthorized persons. such data security breaches could lead to the loss of trade secrets or other intellectual property, or could lead to the public exposure of personal information (including sensitive personal information) of our employees, clinical trial patients, customers, and others. such disruptions and breaches of security could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. risks related to our common stock our stock price is extremely volatile. there has been significant volatility in our stock price and generally in the market prices of biotechnology companies' securities. various factors and events may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. these factors include, by way of example: fluctuations in our operating results; in particular, net product sales of eylea. in addition, to a lesser degree, sales of zaltrap and arcalyst and, if any of our product candidates or our new indications for our marketed products receive regulatory approval, net product sales of, and profits from, these product candidates and new indications; market acceptance of, and fluctuations in market share for, our marketed products, especially eylea; whether our net products sales and net profits, underperform, meet, or exceed the expectations of investors or analysts; announcement of actions by the fda or foreign regulatory authorities or their respective advisory committees regarding our, or our collaborators', or our competitors', currently pending or future application(s) for regulatory approval of product candidate(s) or new indications for marketed products; announcement of submission of an application for regulatory approval of one or more of our, or our competitors', product candidates or new indications for marketed products; progress, delays, or results in clinical trials of our or our competitors' product candidates or new indications for marketed products; announcement of technological innovations or product candidates by us or competitors; third-party claims that our products or technologies infringe their patents; third-party challenges to our patents in the european patent office and in the u.s. patent and trademark office; public concern as to the safety or effectiveness of any of our marketed products, eylea, zaltrap, or arcalyst, or product candidates or new indications for our marketed products; pricing or reimbursement actions or decisions by government authorities or insurers affecting the coverage or reimbursement of any of our marketed products or competitors' products; our ability to raise additional capital as needed on favorable terms; developments in our relationships with collaborative partners or key customers; developments in the biotechnology industry or in government regulation of healthcare; large sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors, or significant shareholders; arrivals and departures of key personnel; and general market conditions. in addition, in the fourth quarter of 2012, we determined, based on our facts and circumstances, that it was more likely than not that a substantial portion of our deferred tax assets would be realized and, as a result, substantially all of our valuation allowance against deferred tax assets was released. therefore, beginning in 2013, we expect to commence recording income tax expense at an estimated tax rate that will likely approximate statutory tax rates, which would result in a significant reduction in our net income and net income per share and may have an impact on the market price of our common stock. 34 table of contents the trading price of our common stock has been, and could continue to be, subject to wide fluctuations in response to these and other factors, including the sale or attempted sale of a large amount of our common stock in the market. broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the market price of our common stock. future sales of our common stock by our significant shareholders or us may depress our stock price and impair our ability to raise funds in new share offerings. a small number of our shareholders beneficially own a substantial amount of our common stock. as of december 31, 2012, our five largest shareholders plus leonard s. schleifer, m.d, ph.d., our chief executive officer, beneficially owned 54.1% of our outstanding shares of common stock, assuming, in the case of our chief executive officer, the conversion of his class a stock into common stock and the exercise of all options held by him which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2012. in september 2003, sanofi (then aventis pharmaceuticals inc.) purchased 2,799,552 newly issued, unregistered shares of our common stock, and in december 2007 sanofi purchased an additional 12,000,000 newly issued, unregistered shares of our common stock. under our investor agreement, as amended, with sanofi, these shares may not be sold until december 20, 2017 except under limited circumstances and subject to earlier termination of these restrictions upon the occurrence of certain events. in addition, in october 2010, sanofi purchased an additional 1,017,401 shares of common stock in our underwritten public offering. as of december 31, 2012, sanofi beneficially owned 15,816,953 shares of our common stock, representing approximately 16.6% of the shares of common stock then outstanding. in february 2013, we received from sanofi a notification under the hart-scott-rodino antitrust improvements act of 1976 that it intends to acquire additional common stock through open market purchases and direct purchases from shareholders. if sanofi, or our other significant shareholders or we, sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or there is a perception that such sales may occur, the market price of our common stock could fall. sales of common stock by our significant shareholders, including sanofi, also might make it more difficult for us to raise funds by selling equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. our existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval. holders of class a stock, who are generally the shareholders who purchased their stock from us before our initial public offering, are entitled to ten votes per share, while holders of common stock are entitled to one vote per share. as of december 31, 2012, holders of class a stock held 17.9% of the combined voting power of all shares of common stock and class a stock then outstanding. these shareholders, if acting together, would be in a position to significantly influence the election of our directors and the vote on certain corporate transactions that require majority or supermajority approval of the combined classes, including mergers and other business combinations. this may result in our taking corporate actions that other shareholders may not consider to be in their best interest and may affect the price of our common stock. as of december 31, 2012: our current executive officers and directors beneficially owned 11.1% of our outstanding shares of common stock, assuming conversion of their class a stock into common stock and the exercise of all options held by such persons which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2012, and 23.7% of the combined voting power of our outstanding shares of common stock and class a stock, assuming the exercise of all options held by such persons which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2012; and our five largest shareholders plus leonard s. schleifer, m.d., ph.d. our chief executive officer, beneficially owned 54.1% of our outstanding shares of common stock, assuming, in the case of our chief executive officer, the conversion of his class a stock into common stock and the exercise of all options held by him which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2012. in addition, these five shareholders held 58.6% of the combined voting power of our outstanding shares of common stock and class a stock, assuming the exercise of all options held by our chief executive officer which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2012. pursuant to an investor agreement, as amended, sanofi has agreed to vote its shares, at sanofi's election, either as recommended by our board of directors or proportionally with the votes cast by our other shareholders, except with respect to certain change of control transactions, liquidation or dissolution, stock issuances equal to or exceeding 10% of the then outstanding shares or voting rights of common stock and class a stock, and new equity compensation plans or amendments if not materially consistent with our historical equity compensation practices. 35 table of contents the anti-takeover effects of provisions of our charter, by-laws, and of new york corporate law and the contractual standstill provisions in our investor agreement with sanofi, could deter, delay, or prevent an acquisition or other change in control of us and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. our restated certificate of incorporation, our by-laws, and the new york business corporation law contain various provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company or our management that shareholders may consider favorable or beneficial. some of these provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. these provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. these provisions include: authorization to issue blank check preferred stock, which is preferred stock that can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior shareholder approval, with rights senior to those of our common stock and class a stock; a staggered board of directors, so that it would take three successive annual meetings to replace all of our directors; a requirement that removal of directors may only be effected for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of at least eighty percent (80%) of the outstanding shares entitled to vote for directors, as well as a requirement that any vacancy on the board of directors may be filled only by the remaining directors; a provision whereby any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of shareholders may be taken without a meeting, only if, prior to such action, all of our shareholders consent, the effect of which is to require that shareholder action may only be taken at a duly convened meeting; a requirement that any shareholder seeking to bring business before an annual meeting of shareholders must provide timely notice of this intention in writing and meet various other requirements; and under the new york business corporation law, in addition to certain restrictions which may apply to business combinations involving our company and an interested shareholder , a plan of merger or consolidation of our company must be approved by two-thirds of the votes of all outstanding shares entitled to vote thereon. see the risk factor immediately above captioned our existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval. until the later of the fifth anniversaries of the expiration or earlier termination of our antibody collaboration agreements with sanofi or our zaltrap collaboration with sanofi, sanofi will be bound by certain standstill provisions, as amended, which contractually prohibit sanofi from acquiring more than certain specified percentages of our class a stock and common stock (taken together) or otherwise seeking to obtain control of our company. in addition, we have a change in control severance plan and our chief executive officer has an employment agreement that provides severance benefits in the event our officers are terminated as a result of a change in control of our company. many of our stock options issued under our second amended and restated 2000 long-term incentive plan, as amended and restated, may become fully vested in connection with a change in control of our company, as defined in the plan. these contractual provisions may also have the effect of deterring, delaying, or preventing an acquisition or other change in control. risks relating to our convertible senior notes and related hedge transactions the convertible note hedges and warrant transactions we entered into in connection with our 1.875% convertible senior notes issuance may affect the trading price of our common stock. in connection with our offering of our 1.875% convertible senior notes due october 1, 2016, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions with four financial institutions (the hedge counterparties ). the convertible note hedge transactions are expected to reduce the potential dilution to our common stock and/or offset potential cash payments in excess of the principal amount of the notes, as the case may be upon conversion of the notes. in the event that the hedge counterparties fail to deliver shares to us or potential cash payments as the case may be as required under the convertible note hedge documents, we would not receive the benefit of such transactions. separately, we also entered into warrant transactions with the hedge counterparties. the warrant transactions could separately have a dilutive effect from the issuance of common stock pursuant to the warrants. in connection with hedging these transactions, the hedge counterparties and/or their affiliates may enter into various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock, and may enter into, or may unwind, various derivative transactions and/or purchase or sell our common stock or other securities of ours in secondary market transactions prior to maturity of the notes (and are likely to do so during any conversion period related to any conversion of the notes). these activities could have the effect of increasing or preventing a decline in, or could have a negative effect on, the value of our common stock and could have the effect of increasing or preventing a decline in the value of our common stock during any cash settlement averaging period related to a conversion of the notes. 36 table of contents in addition, we intend to exercise options under the convertible note hedge transactions whenever notes are converted. in order to unwind its hedge position with respect to the options we exercise, the hedge counterparties and/or their affiliates may sell shares of our common stock or other securities in secondary market transactions or unwind various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock during the cash settlement averaging period for the converted notes. the effect, if any, of any of these transactions and activities on the trading price of our common stock or the notes will depend in part on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time, but any of these activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock and the value of the notes. the derivative transactions that the hedge counterparties and/or their affiliates expect to enter into to hedge these transactions may include cash-settled equity swaps referenced to our common stock. in certain circumstances, the hedge counterparties and/or their affiliates may have derivative positions that, when combined with the hedge counterparties' and their affiliates' ownership of our common stock, if any, would give them economic exposure to the return on a significant number of shares of our common stock. the fundamental change provisions of our 1.875% convertible senior notes and certain of the terms of the convertible note hedge and warrant transactions may delay or prevent an otherwise beneficial takeover attempt of us. the fundamental change purchase rights, which will allow noteholders to require us to purchase all or a portion of their notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, as defined in the indenture governing the notes, and the provisions requiring an increase to the conversion rate for conversions in connection with make-whole fundamental changes, as set forth in the indenture, may in certain circumstances delay or prevent a takeover of us and the removal of incumbent management that might otherwise be beneficial to investors. in addition, upon the occurrence of certain extraordinary events, the convertible note hedge transactions would be exercised upon the conversion of notes, and the warrant transactions may be terminated. it is possible that the proceeds we receive upon the exercise of the convertible note hedge transactions would be significantly lower than the amounts we would be required to pay upon termination of the warrant transactions. such differences may result in the acquisition of us being on terms less favorable to our shareholders than it would otherwise be. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 72 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our earnings and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to changes in interest rates, principally in connection with our investments in marketable securities, which consist primarily of direct obligations of the u.s. government and its agencies, and other debt securities guaranteed by the u.s. government. we do not believe we are materially exposed to changes in interest rates. under our current policies, we do not use interest rate derivative instruments to manage exposure to interest rate changes. we estimate that a 100 basis point, or 1%, unfavorable change in interest rates would have resulted in approximately a $4.9 million and $3.3 million decrease in the fair value of our investment portfolio at december 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. the increase in interest rate risk year over year is due primarily to higher balances of marketable debt securities that we held at december 31, 2012 compared to the same period of 2011. 72 table of contents credit quality risk we have an investment policy that includes guidelines on acceptable investment securities, minimum credit quality, maturity parameters, and concentration and diversification. nonetheless, deterioration of the credit quality of an investment security subsequent to purchase may subject us to the risk of not being able to recover the full principal value of the security. during 2012, 2011, and 2010, other-than-temporary impairment charges recognized by us, if any, were inconsequential. we are also subject to credit risk in connection with accounts receivable from our product sales of eylea and arcalyst. these accounts receivable are due from three distributors and several specialty pharmacies, who are our customers. we have contractual payment terms with each of our customers, and we monitor our customers' financial performance and credit worthiness so that we can properly assess and respond to any changes in their credit profile. in addition, we may insure a portion of our accounts receivables within our overall risk management practices. during 2012, 2011, and 2010, we did not recognize any charges for write-offs of accounts receivable related to our marketed products. at december 31, 2012 and 2011, one individual customer accounted for 80% and 71%, respectively, of our net trade accounts receivable balances.risk factors 20 risk factors, which could cause actual events and results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. we do not undertake any obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. general regeneron pharmaceuticals, inc. is a fully integrated biopharmaceutical company that discovers, invents, develops, manufactures, and commercializes medicines for the treatment of serious medical conditions. our total revenues were $2,104.7 million in 2013 , compared to $1,378.5 million in 2012 and $445.8 million in 2011 . our net income was $424.4 million , or $3.81 per diluted share, in 2013 , compared to net income of $750.3 million , or $6.75 per diluted share, in 2012 , and a net loss of $221.8 million , or $2.45 per diluted share, in 2011 . net income in 2012 included an income tax benefit of $335.8 million, primarily attributable to the release of substantially all of the valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. refer to part ii, item 7. "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - results of operations" below for further details of our financial results. we currently have three marketed products: eylea (aflibercept) injection, known in the scientific literature as vegf trap-eye, which is available in the united states, european union (eu), japan, and certain other countries outside the united states for the treatment of neovascular age-related macular degeneration (wet amd) and macular edema following central retinal vein occlusion (crvo). net product sales of eylea in the united states were $1,408.7 million in 2013, $837.9 million in 2012, and $24.8 million in 2011. bayer healthcare records revenue from sales of eylea outside the united states. eylea net product sales outside of the united states commenced in the fourth quarter of 2012, and were $472.1 million in 2013 and $19.0 million in 2012. we commenced sales of eylea for the treatment of wet amd in november 2011 and for the treatment of macular edema following crvo in september 2012, following receipt of regulatory approval in the united states. bayer healthcare commenced sales of eylea for the treatment of wet amd in the fourth quarter of 2012 following receipt of regulatory approvals outside the united states, and for the treatment of macular edema secondary to crvo in the fourth quarter of 2013 following receipt of regulatory approvals in the eu and japan. bayer healthcare has additional regulatory applications for eylea for the treatment of wet amd and macular edema secondary to crvo pending in other countries. 2 table of contents in august 2013, we and bayer healthcare announced positive week 52 results from the phase 3 vista-dme and vivid-dme trials of eylea for the treatment of diabetic macular edema (dme), as described below under clinical programs: eylea - ophthalmologic diseases. based on the positive results of these studies, we submitted a supplemental biologics license application (bla) for u.s. regulatory approval of eylea in dme in the fourth quarter of 2013; the target date for an fda decision on the supplemental bla is august 18, 2014. an application for marketing approval for the treatment of dme in the eu was also submitted by bayer healthcare during the fourth quarter of 2013. in addition, in february 2014, we and bayer healthcare announced positive week 100 results from the phase 3 vista-dme trial, as described below under clinical programs: eylea - ophthalmologic diseases. in october 2013, we announced positive week 24 results from the phase 3 vibrant trial of eylea for the treatment of macular edema following branch retinal vein occlusion (brvo), as described below under clinical programs: eylea - ophthalmologic diseases. we are collaborating with bayer healthcare on the global development and commercialization of eylea outside the united states. bayer healthcare markets, and records revenue from sales of, eylea outside the united states, where, for countries other than japan, the companies share equally the profits and losses from sales of eylea. in japan, we are entitled to receive a percentage of the sales of eylea, as described below. we maintain exclusive rights to eylea in the united states and are entitled to all profits from any such sales. zaltrap (ziv-aflibercept) injection for intravenous infusion, known in the scientific literature as vegf trap, which is available in the united states, eu, and certain other countries for treatment, in combination with 5-fluorouracil, leucovorin, irinotecan (folfiri), of patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (mcrc) that is resistant to or has progressed following an oxaliplatin-containing regimen. regulatory applications for marketing authorization of zaltrap for the treatment of previously treated mcrc patients in other countries have also been submitted and are currently under review by the respective regulatory agencies. we and sanofi globally collaborate on the development and commercialization of zaltrap, and share profits and losses from commercialization of zaltrap, except for japan, where we are entitled to receive a percentage of the sales of zaltrap, as described below. zaltrap net product sales, which are recorded by sanofi, commenced in the united states in august 2012 and in europe in the first quarter of 2013, and were $70.2 million in 2013 and $31.7 million in 2012. arcalyst (rilonacept) injection for subcutaneous use, which is available in the united states for the treatment of cryopyrin-associated periodic syndromes (caps), including familial cold auto-inflammatory syndrome (fcas) and muckle-wells syndrome (mws), in adults and children 12 and older. caps are a group of rare, inherited, auto-inflammatory conditions characterized by life-long, recurrent symptoms of rash, fever/chills, joint pain, eye redness/pain, and fatigue. intermittent, disruptive exacerbations or flares can be triggered at any time by exposure to cooling temperatures, stress, exercise, or other unknown stimuli. net product sales of arcalyst totaled $17.1 million in 2013 , $ 20.2 million in 2012 , and $ 19.9 million in 2011 . we have 16 product candidates in clinical development, all of which were discovered in our research laboratories. our trap-based clinical programs are: eylea, which is in clinical trials for the treatment of dme and macular edema following brvo in collaboration with bayer healthcare; and zaltrap, which is being studied in combination with our angiopoietin-2 inhibitor (nesvacumab) in oncology in collaboration with sanofi. our antibody-based clinical programs include 14 fully human monoclonal antibody product candidates. the following seven are being developed in collaboration with sanofi: sarilumab (regn88), an antibody to the interleukin-6 receptor (il-6r), which is being developed in rheumatoid arthritis and non-infectious uveitis; alirocumab (regn727), an antibody to proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (pcsk9), which is being developed for low-density lipoprotein (ldl) cholesterol reduction; dupilumab (regn668), an antibody to the interleukin-4 receptor alpha (il-4r), which is being developed in atopic dermatitis, asthma, and nasal polyposis; enoticumab (regn421), an antibody to delta-like ligand-4 (dll4), a novel angiogenesis target, which is being developed in oncology; nesvacumab (regn910), an antibody to angiopoietin-2 (ang2), another novel angiogenesis target, which is being developed in oncology; regn1033, an antibody to myostatin (gdf8), which is being developed in skeletal muscle disorders; and regn2009, an antibody in clinical development against an undisclosed target. 3 table of contents we are developing the following six antibody product candidates independently: regn1400, an antibody to erbb3, which is being developed in oncology; regn1154, an antibody in clinical development against an undisclosed target; regn1500, an antibody in clinical development against an undisclosed target; regn1193, an antibody in clinical development against an undisclosed target; regn1908-1909, an antibody combination in clinical development against an undisclosed target; and fasinumab (regn475), an antibody to nerve growth factor (ngf), which is being developed for the treatment of pain and is currently on clinical hold by the fda. in addition, regn2176-3, a combination product that is comprised of an antibody to platelet derived growth factor receptor beta (pdgfr-beta) co-formulated with eylea for use in ophthalmology, entered clinical development in the first quarter of 2014, and is being developed in collaboration with bayer healthcare. development of regn846, which completed a phase 1 study against an undisclosed target, was discontinued in the second quarter of 2013. our core business strategy is to maintain a strong foundation in basic scientific research and discovery-enabling technologies, and to combine that foundation with our clinical development, manufacturing, and commercial capabilities. our long-term objective is to build a successful, integrated, multi-product biopharmaceutical company that provides patients and medical professionals with innovative options for preventing and treating human diseases. we believe that our ability to develop product candidates is enhanced by the application of our velocisuite technology platforms. our discovery platforms are designed to identify specific proteins of therapeutic interest for a particular disease or cell type and validate these targets through high-throughput production of genetically modified mice using our velocigene technology to understand the role of these proteins in normal physiology, as well as in models of disease. our human monoclonal antibody technology ( velocimmune ) and cell line expression technologies ( velocimab ) may then be utilized to discover and produce new product candidates directed against the disease target. our antibody product candidates currently in clinical trials were developed using velocimmune . we continue to invest in the development of enabling technologies to assist in our efforts to identify, develop, manufacture, and commercialize new product candidates. we recently launched a new human genetics initiative via a wholly owned subsidiary, regeneron genetics center llc (rgc). rgc will perform sequencing and genotyping to generate de-identified genomic data. the objective of rgc is to expand the use of human genetics for discovering and validating genetic factors that cause or influence a range of diseases where there are major unmet medical needs, with the prospect of improving the drug discovery and development process. rgc intends to pursue both large population-based efforts as well as family-based approaches. clinical programs: 1. eylea - ophthalmologic diseases vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) is a naturally occurring protein in the body. its normal role in a healthy organism is to trigger formation of new blood vessels (angiogenesis) supporting the growth of the body's tissues and organs. however, in certain diseases, such as wet amd, it is also associated with the growth of abnormal new blood vessels in the eye, which exhibit abnormal increased permeability that leads to edema. scarring and loss of fine-resolution central vision often results. in crvo and brvo, a blockage occurs in the main blood vessel that transports deoxygenated blood away from the retina. vegf levels are elevated in response, contributing to macular edema. for clinically significant dme, vegf-mediated leakage of fluid from blood vessels in the eye results in interference with vision. eylea is a recombinant fusion protein, consisting of portions of human vegf receptors 1 and 2 extracellular domains fused to the fc portion of human igg1 and formulated as an iso-osmotic solution for intravitreal administration. eylea acts as a soluble decoy receptor that binds vegf-a and placental growth factor (plgf) and thereby can inhibit the binding and activation of these cognate vegf receptors. eylea is specially purified and contains iso-osmotic buffer concentrations, allowing for injection into the eye. eylea is being evaluated in phase 3 programs in patients with dme and macular edema following brvo. wet amd, diabetic retinopathy (which includes dme), and retinal vein occlusion are three of the leading causes of adult blindness in the developed world. in these conditions, severe visual loss is caused by neovascular proliferation and/or retinal edema. in august 2013, we and bayer healthcare announced that in the phase 3 vista-dme and vivid-dme trials of eylea for the treatment of dme, eylea 2 milligrams (mg) dosed monthly and eylea 2 mg dosed every two months (after 5 initial monthly injections) achieved the primary endpoint of a significantly greater improvement in best-corrected visual acuity (bcva) from 4 table of contents baseline compared to laser photocoagulation at 52 weeks. both eylea treatment arms demonstrated similar improvements in bcva. based on the positive results of these studies, during the fourth quarter of 2013, we submitted a supplemental bla for u.s. regulatory approval of eylea in dme. the target date for an fda decision on the supplemental bla is august 18, 2014. bayer healthcare also submitted an application for marketing approval for the treatment of dme in the eu in the fourth quarter of 2013. we are conducting the vista-dme study in the united states. bayer healthcare is conducting the vivid-dme study in europe, japan, and australia. both of these phase 3 trials were initiated in the second quarter of 2011, and are similarly designed, randomized, double-masked, active control trials to evaluate the safety and efficacy of eylea in patients with dme. patients in both trials were randomized to receive either eylea 2 mg monthly, eylea 2 mg every two months (after 5 initial monthly injections), or the comparator treatment of laser photocoagulation. in the vista-dme trial, after one year patients receiving eylea 2 mg monthly had a mean change from baseline in bcva of 12.5 letters (p&lt;0.0001 compared to laser) and patients receiving eylea 2 mg every other month (after 5 initial monthly injections) had a mean change from baseline in bcva of 10.7 letters (p&lt;0.0001 compared to laser), compared to patients receiving laser photocoagulation who had a mean change from baseline in bcva of 0.2 letters. in the vivid-dme trial, after one year patients receiving eylea 2 mg monthly had a mean change from baseline in bcva of 10.5 letters (p&lt;0.0001 compared to laser) and patients receiving eylea 2 mg every other month (after 5 initial monthly injections) had a mean change from baseline in bcva of 10.7 letters (p&lt;0.0001 compared to laser), compared to patients receiving laser photocoagulation who had a mean change from baseline in bcva of 1.2 letters. in addition, in february 2014, we and bayer healthcare announced that in the phase 3 vista-dme trial of eylea for the treatment of dme, eylea 2 mg dosed monthly and eylea 2 mg dosed every two months (after 5 initial monthly injections) showed a sustained improvement from baseline in bcva at week 100, compared to laser photocoagulation. after two years, patients receiving eylea 2 mg monthly had a mean change from baseline in bcva of 11.5 letters and patients receiving eylea 2 mg every other month (after 5 initial monthly injections) had a mean change from baseline in bcva of 11.1 letters, compared to patients receiving laser photocoagulation who had a mean change from baseline in bcva of 0.9 letters. in these trials, eylea was generally well tolerated with a similar overall incidence of adverse events (aes), ocular serious aes, and non-ocular serious aes across the treatment groups and the laser control group. arterial thromboembolic events as defined by the anti-platelet trialists' collaboration (non-fatal stroke, non-fatal myocardial infarction, and vascular death) also occurred at similar rates across the treatment groups and the laser control group. aes were typical of those seen in other studies in patients with diabetes receiving intravitreal anti-vegf therapy. the most frequent ocular treatment emergent aes (teaes) observed in the vivid-dme and vista-dme trials included conjunctival hemorrhage, eye pain, and vitreous floaters. the most frequent non-ocular teaes included hypertension, nasopharyngitis, anemia, and urinary tract infection, which occurred with similar frequency in the treatment groups and the laser control group. full one-year data from the vivid-dme and vista-dme trials were presented at the retina society and euretina medical conferences in september 2013. both trials are planned to continue up to 148 weeks. an additional phase 3 safety study in japan (vivid-japan) was initiated in the first quarter of 2012 and is required for approval in japan. in february 2013, we and bayer healthcare also initiated another phase 3 study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of eylea in dme in russia, china, and other asian countries (vivid east-dme). in the fourth quarter of 2011, we and bayer healthcare initiated a phase 3 trial in china evaluating the efficacy and safety of eylea in wet amd (sight). the trial is fully enrolled. in the second quarter of 2012, we initiated a multinational study (vibrant) of eylea in patients with macular edema following brvo. in october 2013, we reported positive, top line results from the vibrant trial. in this trial, 53% of patients who received eylea 2 mg every four weeks gained at least 15 letters in vision from baseline at week 24, the primary endpoint of the study, compared to 27% of patients who received laser, a standard-of-care treatment (p&lt;0.001). patients who received eylea 2 mg every four weeks achieved a 17.0 letter mean improvement over baseline in bcva compared to a 6.9 letter mean improvement in patients who received laser (p&lt;0.0001), a key secondary endpoint. vibrant is the first phase 3 trial in this indication in which an anti-vegf agent was directly compared to an active comparator. the incidence of serious aes (saes) was 9.9% in the eylea group and 9.8% in the laser group. one death and one anti-platelet trialists' collaboration (aptc) defined event (non-fatal stroke) occurred during the trial, both in patients in the laser group. the most common ocular adverse events in the eylea treated patients were conjunctival hemorrhage and eye pain. there were no cases of intraocular inflammation. there was one ocular sae in a patient in the eylea group, which was a traumatic cataract. the phase 3 vibrant results were presented during the annual meeting of the american academy of ophthalmology (aao) held in november 2013 in new orleans. in the fourth quarter of 2012, we initiated a study (re-view) to fulfill a post-marketing requirement by the fda, which is evaluating the effect of eylea on corneal endothelium. the trial is fully enrolled. 5 table of contents in june 2013, we and bayer healthcare announced positive top-line results for eylea from the phase 3 myrror study in myopic choroidal neovascularization (mcnv). in this trial, patients receiving eylea at an initial dose of 2 mg, followed by treatment on an as-needed (prn) basis, had a mean improvement in bcva from baseline at week 24 of 12.1 letters, compared to a loss of 2.0 letters in patients receiving sham injections (p &lt; 0.0001). the most common adverse events observed in the myrror trial that occurred with a frequency of 2% or more were conjunctival hemorrhage, dry eye, eye pain, headache, and nasopharyngitis. bayer healthcare submitted its first application for regulatory approval for this indication in japan in the fourth quarter of 2013. 2. zaltrap (ziv-aflibercept) - oncology zaltrap is a fusion protein that is designed to bind all forms of vegf-a, vegf-b, and p1gf, and prevent their interaction with cell surface receptors. vegf-a (and to a lesser degree, p1gf) is required for angiogenesis that is needed for tumors to grow. during the third quarter of 2012, we and sanofi initiated a phase 1b study of a combination of zaltrap and our angiopoietin-2 inhibitor (nesvacumab) in patients with advanced solid malignancies. 3. sarilumab (regn88; il-6r antibody) for inflammatory diseases il-6 is a key cytokine involved in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis (ra), causing inflammation and joint destruction. a therapeutic antibody to il-6r, actemra (tocilizumab), a registered trademark of chugai seiyaku kabushiki kaisha, has been approved for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. sarilumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody to il-6r generated using our velocimmune technology. in the fourth quarter of 2013, we and sanofi announced that in the saril-ra-mobility phase 3 clinical trial in adult patients with active ra who were inadequate responders to mtx therapy, sarilumab treatment in combination with mtx improved disease signs and symptoms as well as physical function, and inhibited progression of joint damage. the 52 week saril-ra-mobility phase 3 trial enrolled approximately 1,200 patients with active, moderate-to-severe rheumatoid arthritis, and who were inadequate responders to mtx therapy. patients were randomized to one of three subcutaneous treatment groups, all in combination with mtx and dosed every other week: sarilumab 200 mg, sarilumab 150 mg, or placebo. both sarilumab groups showed clinically relevant and statistically significant improvements compared to the placebo group in all three co-primary endpoints (p &lt; 0.0001). in the saril-ra-mobility trial, there was a higher incidence of treatment emergent adverse events leading to withdrawal in the sarilumab treatment groups compared to placebo (13.9 percent in 200 mg, 12.5 percent in 150 mg and 4.7 percent in placebo). infections were the most frequently reported adverse events and were reported with a higher incidence in the sarilumab groups compared to placebo, all in combination with mtx (39.6 percent for 200 mg, 40.1 percent for the 150 mg group and 31.1 percent for placebo). the incidence of serious infections was 4.0 percent in the 200 mg + mtx group, 2.6 percent in the 150 mg + mtx group, and 2.3 percent in the placebo + mtx group. among patients treated with sarilumab, a dose dependent decrease in mean neutrophil counts was observed. serious infections were not associated with grades 3 and 4 neutropenia in this study. increases in mean ldl cholesterol, and transaminases were observed. these safety findings were consistent with those observed in prior investigational studies with sarilumab. additional analyses of efficacy and safety data from the saril-ra-mobility study will be presented at a future medical conference. we and sanofi have also initiated additional phase 3 studies, saril-ra-target, saril-ra-compare, and saril-ra- ascertain. the broad saril-ra clinical development program is focused on adult populations with moderate-to-severe ra who are inadequate responders to either mtx or tumor necrosis factor alpha (tnf-alpha) inhibitor therapy. saril-ra-target is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study evaluating sarilumab in combination with non-biologic, disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (dmards) in moderate-to-severe active ra patients with inadequate responses to, or who are intolerant of, one or more tnf-alpha inhibitors. the saril-ra-compare study is evaluating the safety and efficacy of sarilumab plus mtx compared to etanercept (a tnf-alpha inhibitor) plus mtx in adult patients with moderate-to-severe ra who demonstrate an inadequate response to adalimumab as their first tnf-alpha inhibitor therapy. the saril-ra-ascertain study is a safety study evaluating the safety and tolerability of sarilumab versus a calibrator, tocilizumab, both in combination with mtx, in patients with ra who are inadequate responders to, or intolerant of, tnf-alpha inhibitors. patients who complete saril-ra-mobility, saril-ra-target, or saril-ra-ascertain are offered enrollment into the ongoing saril-ra-extend, which is an open-label, long-term safety study of sarilumab. a phase 1 study was initiated in the second quarter of 2013 in japan assessing the safety and tolerability of sarilumab in patients with ra. in addition, a phase 2 study, saril-niu-saturn, was initiated in the fourth quarter of 2013 and is a placebo-controlled proof of concept study evaluating the safety and efficacy of sarilumab in non-infectious uveitis. 6 table of contents 4. alirocumab (regn727; pcsk9 antibody) for ldl cholesterol reduction elevated ldl cholesterol ( bad cholesterol ) level is a validated risk factor leading to cardiovascular disease. statins are a class of drugs that lower ldl through inhibition of hmg-coa, an enzyme regulating the early and rate-limiting step in cholesterol biosynthesis that ultimately results in an increase in ldl receptors to increase the uptake of plasma ldl lipoproteins. pcsk9 is a secreted protein that plays a key role in modulating ldl cholesterol (ldl-c) levels in the body. pcsk9 binds to and induces the destruction of the ldl receptor, thereby interfering with cellular uptake and increasing circulating levels of ldl cholesterol. in a landmark study published in the new england journal of medicine in march 2006, patients with lower than normal pcsk9 levels due to a genetic abnormality not only had significantly lower levels of ldl cholesterol, but also a significant reduction in the risk of coronary heart disease. we used our velocimmune technology to generate a fully human monoclonal antibody inhibitor of pcsk9, called alirocumab, that is intended to lower ldl cholesterol. alirocumab has been studied in three phase 2 clinical studies, two in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia and one in patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (hefh). in the phase 2 studies, alirocumab significantly reduced ldl-c from baseline up to 72% on top of standard of care statin therapy. consistent and robust reductions in other lipid parameters, including a reduction in lipoprotein-a (lp(a)) were also observed. lp(a) is another form of bad cholesterol which is believed to be a risk factor for coronary heart disease and strokes when elevated. in the phase 2 program, injection site reactions were the most common adverse events with alirocumab, and were rare. rare cases of hypersensitivity reaction were also reported. serious adverse events were reported in 1.8% of patients in the active treatment arms and 2.6% of patients in the placebo groups. we and sanofi initiated the global phase 3 odyssey program for alirocumab in the second quarter of 2012. the odyssey program is expected to enroll more than 23,000 patients. this includes eleven clinical trials evaluating the effect of alirocumab, dosed every two weeks, on lowering ldl cholesterol. in addition, the 18,000 patient odyssey outcomes trial, assessing reduction in serious cardiovascular events, is currently enrolling patients, while the other trials exploring every two week dosing in the odyssey program are fully enrolled. ldl cholesterol reduction is expected to be the primary efficacy endpoint for initial regulatory filings. also, two trials of alirocumab dosed every four weeks, odyssey choice i and choice ii, were initiated in the fourth quarter of 2013 and the first quarter of 2014, respectively. the odyssey studies are being conducted in clinical centers around the world including the united states, canada, western and eastern europe, south america, australia, and asia. the first trial to report data from the phase 3 odyssey program was the odyssey mono trial (in the fourth quarter of 2013), which evaluated the efficacy and safety of alirocumab monotherapy versus ezetimibe monotherapy in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia. the study achieved its primary efficacy endpoint and demonstrated that patients randomized to receive alirocumab monotherapy experienced a mean reduction in ldl-c levels of 47.2% from baseline to week 24, compared to 15.6% in patients receiving ezetimibe monotherapy (p&lt;0.0001). in the trial, which employed a dose increase (up-titration) for patients who did not achieve an ldl-c level of 70 milligrams/deciliter (mg/dl), the majority of patients remained on the initial low dose of alirocumab of 75 mg. the percentage of patients who reported teaes was 78.4% in the ezetimibe group and 69.2% in the alirocumab group. the most common class of aes was infections (39.2% with ezetimibe vs. 42.3% with alirocumab), which included nasopharyngitis, influenza, and upper respiratory tract infection. injection-site reactions occurred in less than 2% of patients in both groups. muscle-related aes occurred in 3.9% of patients treated with ezetimibe and 3.8% of patients treated with alirocumab. 5. dupilumab (regn668; il-4r antibody) for allergic and immune conditions il-4r is required for signaling by the cytokines il-4 and il-13. both of these cytokines are critical mediators of immune response, which, in turn, drives the formation of immunoglobulin e (ige) antibodies and the development of allergic responses, as well as the atopic state that underlies atopic dermatitis and asthma. dupilumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody generated using our velocimmune technology that is designed to bind to il-4r. dupilumab demonstrated positive proof of concept in patients with atopic dermatitis and asthma. data from two phase 1b trials in atopic dermatitis were presented at the american academy of dermatology annual meeting in march 2013. the efficacy data showed that treatment with four weekly subcutaneous injections of dupilumab at either 150 mg or 300 mg per week, significantly improved the signs and symptoms of patients with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis whose disease was not adequately controlled with topical medications. the most common aes were nasopharyngitis (19.6% vs 12.5% for placebo) and headache (11.8% vs 6.3% for placebo). data from a phase 2a trial in asthma patients with elevated eosinophils were presented at the american thoracic society in may 2013, and were also published in the new england journal of medicine in june 2013. in this study, patients receiving dupilumab at 300 mg weekly for 12 weeks experienced an 87% reduction in the incidence of asthma exacerbations compared to patients receiving placebo (p&lt;0.0001). clinically meaningful and statistically significant improvements were observed for lung function and other asthma control parameters, such as forced expiratory volume over one second (fev 1 ) (difference from baseline to week 12 between dupilumab and placebo of 0.27 l, p &lt; 0.001). teaes were reported by a similar proportion of patients in 7 table of contents both groups (76.9% placebo; 80.8% dupilumab). aes were generally non-specific and of mild-to-moderate intensity. the most common aes for placebo and dupilumab were injection-site reaction (9.6% and 28.8%), nasopharyngitis (3.8% and 13.5%), upper respiratory tract infection (17.3% and 13.5%), headache (5.8% and 11.5%) and nausea (1.9% and 7.7%). data from a 4-week phase 2 trial in atopic dermatitis were presented at the 22nd congress of the european academy of dermatology and venereology in october 2013. in the second quarter of 2013, phase 2b trials in atopic dermatitis and asthma were initiated. the phase 2b asthma trial is currently enrolling patients, while the phase 2b atopic dermatitis trial is fully enrolled. in addition, in the third quarter of 2013, a phase 2 study in nasal polyposis was initiated and is currently enrolling patients. 6. enoticumab (regn421; dll4 antibody) for advanced malignancies in many clinical settings, positively or negatively regulating blood vessel growth could have important therapeutic benefits, as could the repair of damaged and leaky vessels. vegf was the first growth factor shown to be specific for blood vessels, by virtue of having its receptor primarily expressed on blood vessel cells. in the december 21, 2006 issue of the journal nature , we reported data from a preclinical study demonstrating that blocking an important cell signaling molecule, known as dll4, inhibited the growth of experimental tumors by interfering with their ability to produce a functional blood supply. the inhibition of tumor growth was seen in a variety of tumor types, including those that were resistant to blockade of vegf, suggesting a novel anti-angiogenesis therapeutic approach. moreover, inhibition of tumor growth is enhanced by the combination of dll4 and vegf blockade in many preclinical tumor models. enoticumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody to dll4 generated using our velocimmune technology, and is in phase 1 clinical development. 7. nesvacumab (regn910; ang2 antibody) for oncology and ophthalmology the angiopoietins, which were discovered at regeneron, are ligands for the endothelial cell receptor tie2 and are essential for vascular development and angiogenesis. unlike other family members, angiopoietin-2 (ang2) is strongly upregulated by endothelial cells at sites of angiogenesis and vascular remodeling, including tumors. enhanced anti-tumor effects have been observed in preclinical models with combined blockade of both vegf and ang2. nesvacumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody generated using our velocimmune technology that is designed to block ang2. nesvacumab is in phase 1 clinical development in oncology. in addition, during the third quarter of 2012, we and sanofi initiated a phase 1b study evaluating nesvacumab in combination with zaltrap in patients with advanced solid malignancies. in may 2013, we acquired from sanofi full rights to antibodies targeting the ang2 receptor and ligand in ophthalmology, as described below. we expect to initiate a clinical study for ang2 in ophthalmology in 2014. 8. regn1033 (gdf8 antibody) in the first quarter of 2012, we initiated a phase 1 clinical study for regn1033, a fully human monoclonal gdf8 antibody generated using our velocimmune technology. myostatin has been validated as a target to increase muscle mass and strength through genetic mutations in both animals and humans that abrogate its bioactivity. a phase 2 program for regn1033 was initiated in the fourth quarter of 2013. 9. regn2009 regn2009 is a fully human monoclonal antibody generated using our velocimmune technology, against an undisclosed target. in the second quarter of 2013, we initiated a phase 1 clinical study. 10. regn1400 (erbb3 antibody) for oncology regn1400 is a fully human monoclonal antibody generated using our velocimmune technology, against erbb3. in the fourth quarter of 2012, regn1400 entered into phase 1 clinical development in oncology. 11. regn1154 regn1154 is a fully human monoclonal antibody generated using our velocimmune technology, against an undisclosed target. our phase 1 clinical study in australia, which was initiated in the first quarter of 2012, has been completed. we are currently evaluating next steps for this program. sanofi did not opt-in to the regn1154 program and we have sole global rights. under the terms of our agreement, sanofi is entitled to receive a mid-single digit royalty on any future sales of regn1154. 8 table of contents 12. regn1500 regn1500 is a fully human monoclonal antibody generated using our velocimmune technology, against an undisclosed target. in the fourth quarter of 2012, we initiated a phase 1 clinical study. sanofi did not opt-in to the regn1500 program and we have sole global rights. under the terms of our agreement, sanofi is entitled to receive a mid-single digit royalty on any future sales of regn1500. 13. regn1193 regn1193 is a fully human monoclonal antibody generated using our velocimmune technology, against an undisclosed target. a phase 1 clinical study of regn1193 was initiated in the second quarter of 2013. sanofi did not opt-in to the regn1193 program and we have sole global rights. under the terms of our agreement, sanofi is entitled to receive a mid-single digit royalty on any future sales of regn1193. 14. regn1908-1909 regn1908-1909 is a fully human monocolonal antibody combination generated using our velocimmune technology against an undisclosed target. a phase 1 clinical study of regn1908-1909 was initiated in the second quarter of 2013. sanofi did not opt-in to the regn1908-1909 program and we have sole global rights. under the terms of our agreement, sanofi is entitled to receive a mid-single digit royalty on any future sales of regn1908-1909. 15. regn2176-3 (pdgfr-beta antibody in combination with eylea) for ophthalmology regn2176-3 is a combination product comprised of an antibody to pdgfr-beta, which was generated using our velocimmune technology, co-formulated with eylea for use in ophthalmology. in february 2014, we initiated a phase 1 clinical study of regn2176-3 for the treatment of wet amd. in may 2013, we acquired from sanofi full rights to antibodies targeting the pdgf family of receptors and ligands in ophthalmology, as described below. in january 2014, we and bayer healthcare entered into an agreement regarding the joint development and commercialization outside the united states of an antibody product candidate to pdgfr-beta, including in combination therapy with eylea, for the treatment of ocular diseases or disorders (including wet amd) as described further in the "collaborations with bayer healthcare" section below. 16. fasinumab (regn475; ngf antibody) for pain (on clinical hold) fasinumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody to ngf, generated using our velocimmune technology, which is designed to block pain sensitization in neurons. preclinical experiments indicate that fasinumab specifically binds to and blocks ngf activity and does not bind to or block cell signaling for the closely related neurotrophins nt-3 and bdnf. in december 2012, the fda placed fasinumab and other investigational agents targeting ngf on clinical hold based on preclinical findings with other anti-ngf agents in development. prior to the fda clinical hold action, we were planning to initiate late-stage clinical trials with fasinumab. there are currently no ongoing trials with fasinumab that are either enrolling or treating patients. sanofi elected not to continue co-development of fasinumab, and we have sole global rights. under the terms of our agreement, sanofi is entitled to receive a mid-single digit royalty on any future sales of fasinumab. acquisition of ophthalmology development programs from sanofi in may 2013, we acquired from sanofi full exclusive rights to two families of novel antibodies invented at regeneron and previously included in our antibody collaboration with sanofi. we acquired full rights to antibodies targeting the pdgf family of receptors and ligands in ophthalmology and all other indications and to antibodies targeting the ang2 receptor and ligand in ophthalmology. with respect to pdgf antibodies, we made a $10.0 million up-front payment to sanofi in may 2013, a $5.0 million development milestone payment to sanofi in january 2014, and are obligated to pay up to $35 million in additional potential development milestones and royalties on any future sales. with respect to ang2 antibodies in ophthalmology, we also made a $10.0 million up-front payment to sanofi in may 2013, and are obligated to pay a potential $5 million development milestone payment and royalties on any future sales. we and sanofi have agreed to continue to develop antibodies to ang2 outside of ophthalmology under our antibody collaboration agreement, including nesvacumab, as described above. 9 table of contents research programs our preclinical research programs are in the areas of oncology, angiogenesis, ophthalmology, metabolic and related diseases, muscle diseases and disorders, inflammation and immune diseases, bone and cartilage, pain, cardiovascular diseases, and infectious diseases. research and development technologies many proteins that are either on the surface of or secreted by cells play important roles in biology and disease. one way that a cell communicates with other cells is by releasing specific signaling proteins, either locally or into the bloodstream. these proteins have distinct functions and are classified into different families of molecules, such as peptide hormones, growth factors, and cytokines. all of these secreted (or signaling) proteins travel to and are recognized by another set of proteins, called receptors, which reside on the surface of responding cells. these secreted proteins impact many critical cellular and biological processes, causing diverse effects ranging from the regulation of growth of particular cell types to inflammation mediated by white blood cells. secreted proteins can at times be overactive and thus result in a variety of diseases. in these disease settings, blocking the action of specific secreted proteins can have clinical benefit. in other cases, proteins on the cell-surface can mediate the interaction between cells, such as the processes that give rise to inflammation and autoimmunity. our scientists have developed two different technologies to design protein therapeutics to block the action of specific cell surface or secreted proteins. the first technology, termed the trap technology, was used to generate our three approved products, eylea, zaltrap, and arcalyst. these novel traps are composed of fusions between two distinct receptor components and the constant region of an antibody molecule called the fc region, resulting in high affinity product candidates. velocisuite is our second technology platform; it is used for discovering, developing, and producing fully human monoclonal antibodies that can address both secreted and cell-surface targets. velocisuite. velocisuite consists of velocimmune, velocigene, velocimouse , and velocimab . the velocimmune mouse platform is utilized to produce fully human monoclonal antibodies. velocimmune was generated by exploiting our velocigene technology (see below), in a process in which six megabases of mouse immune gene loci were replaced, or humanized, with corresponding human immune gene loci. velocimmune mice can be used to generate efficiently fully human monoclonal antibodies to targets of therapeutic interest. velocimmune and our entire velocisuite offer the potential to increase the speed and efficiency through which human monoclonal antibody therapeutics may be discovered and validated, thereby improving the overall efficiency of our early stage drug development activities. we are utilizing the velocimmune technology to produce our next generation of drug candidates for preclinical and clinical development. our velocigene platform allows custom and precise manipulation of very large sequences of dna to produce highly customized alterations of a specified target gene, or genes, and accelerates the production of knock-out and transgenic expression models without using either positive/negative selection or isogenic dna. in producing knock-out models, a color or fluorescent marker may be substituted in place of the actual gene sequence, allowing for high-resolution visualization of precisely where the gene is active in the body during normal body functioning as well as in disease processes. for the optimization of preclinical development and pharmacology programs, velocigene offers the opportunity to humanize targets by replacing the mouse gene with the human homolog. thus, velocigene allows scientists to rapidly identify the physical and biological effects of deleting or over-expressing the target gene, as well as to characterize and test potential therapeutic molecules. our velocimouse technology platform allows for the direct and immediate generation of genetically altered mice from embryonic stem cells (es cells), thereby avoiding the lengthy process involved in generating and breeding knockout mice from chimeras. mice generated through this method are normal and healthy and exhibit a 100% germ-line transmission. furthermore, mice developed using our velocimouse technology are suitable for direct phenotyping or other studies. we have also developed our velocimab platform for the rapid screening of antibodies and rapid generation of expression cell lines for our traps and our velocimmune human monoclonal antibodies. we have utilized our velocisuite technologies to develop a class of potential drug candidates, known as bi-specific antibodies. in the area of immunotherapies in oncology, we are exploring the use of bi-specific antibodies that target tumor antigens and the cd3 receptor on t-cells to harness the oncolytic properties of t-cells. our first such bi-specific antibody, which we expect to advance into clinical development later in 2014, targets cd20 and cd3. regeneron genetics center (rgc). we recently launched a new human genetics initiative via a wholly owned subsidiary, regeneron genetics center llc. the objective of rgc is to expand the use of human genetics for discovering and validating genetic factors that cause or influence a range of diseases where there are major unmet medical needs, with the prospect of improving the drug discovery and development process. rgc intends to pursue both large population-based efforts as well as family-based approaches. 10 table of contents central to the work of rgc will be a collaboration with the geisinger health system of pennsylvania. during the initial five-year collaboration term, geisinger plans to collect samples from more than 100,000 consented patient volunteers, while rgc will perform sequencing and genotyping to generate de-identified genomic data. collaboration agreements collaborations with sanofi zaltrap . since september 2003, we and sanofi have been parties to a global collaboration for the development and commercialization of zaltrap. under the current terms of our collaboration agreement we and sanofi share co-promotion rights and share profits and losses from commercialization of zaltrap outside of japan. in japan, we are entitled to receive a percentage of approximately 35% on sales of zaltrap, subject to certain potential adjustments. under the collaboration agreement, agreed upon worldwide development expenses incurred by both companies during the term of the agreement are funded by sanofi. if the collaboration becomes profitable, we will be obligated to reimburse sanofi out of our share of zaltrap profits for 50% of the development expenses that they funded. the reimbursement payment in any quarter will equal 5% of the then outstanding repayment obligation, but never more than our share of the zaltrap profits in the quarter unless we elect to reimburse sanofi at a faster rate. as a result, we expect that, initially, our share of any zaltrap profits will be used to reimburse sanofi for this repayment obligation. antibodies . since november 2007, we and sanofi have been parties to a global, strategic collaboration to discover, develop, and commercialize fully human monoclonal antibodies. the collaboration is governed by a discovery and preclinical development agreement and a license and collaboration agreement (each as amended). pursuant to the collaboration, sanofi is funding up to $160 million per year of our antibody discovery activities over the period from 2010-2017 to identify and validate potential drug discovery targets and develop fully human monoclonal antibodies against these targets. we lead the design and conduct of research activities under the collaboration, including target identification and validation, antibody development, research and preclinical activities through filing of an ind or its equivalent, toxicology studies, and manufacture of preclinical and clinical supplies. sanofi has an option to extend certain antibody development and preclinical activities relating to selected program targets for up to an additional three years after 2017. for each drug candidate identified through discovery research under the discovery agreement, sanofi has the option to license rights to the candidate under the license agreement. if it elects to do so, sanofi will co-develop the drug candidate with us through product approval. development costs for the drug candidate are shared between the companies, with sanofi generally funding these costs up front, except that following receipt of the first positive phase 3 trial results for a co-developed drug candidate, subsequent phase 3 trial-related costs for that drug candidate are shared 80% by sanofi and 20% by us. we are generally responsible for reimbursing sanofi for half of the total development costs for all collaboration antibody products from our share of profits from commercialization of collaboration products to the extent they are sufficient for this purpose. however, we are not required to apply more than 10% of our share of the profits from collaboration products in any calendar quarter towards reimbursing sanofi for these development costs. sanofi will lead commercialization activities for products developed under the license agreement, subject to our right to co-promote such products. we and sanofi will equally share profits and losses from sales within the united states. we and sanofi will share profits outside the united states on a sliding scale based on sales starting at 65% (sanofi)/35% (us) and ending at 55% (sanofi)/45% (us), and will share losses outside the united states at 55% (sanofi)/45% (us). in addition to profit sharing, we are entitled to receive up to $250 million in sales milestone payments, with milestone payments commencing after aggregate annual sales outside the united states exceed $1.0 billion on a rolling 12-month basis. collaborations with bayer healthcare eylea outside the united states . since october 2006, we and bayer healthcare have been parties to a license and collaboration agreement for the global development and commercialization outside the united states of eylea. under the agreement, we and bayer healthcare collaborate on, and share the costs of, the development of eylea through an integrated global plan. bayer healthcare markets eylea outside the united states, where, for countries other than japan, the companies share equally in profits and losses from sales of eylea. in may 2012, bayer healthcare's japanese subsidiary, bayer yakuhin, ltd., and santen pharmaceutical co., ltd. entered into an agreement to co-promote eylea in japan. in conjunction with this agreement, we and bayer healthcare amended our existing global license and collaboration agreement for eylea to convert the 50/50 profit share for japan into an agreement under which we are entitled to receive a tiered percentage of between 33.5% and 40.0% of eylea annual net sales in japan. in certain specified circumstances, the japan arrangement may revert to a profit share arrangement. 11 table of contents to date, we have received $110.0 million of development milestone payments and $45.0 million of sales milestone payments from bayer healthcare. in addition, we may earn up to $120 million in additional sales milestone payments if twelve-month sales of eylea outside the united states achieve certain specified levels. commencing with the first commercial sale of eylea in a major market country outside the united states, we became obligated to reimburse bayer healthcare for 50% of the development costs that it has incurred under the agreement from our share of the collaboration profits (including payments to us based on sales in japan). the reimbursement payment in any quarter will equal 5% of the then outstanding repayment obligation, but never more than our share of the collaboration profits in the quarter unless we elect to reimburse bayer healthcare at a faster rate. as a result, we expect that, initially, a portion of our share of eylea profits outside the united states will be used to reimburse bayer healthcare for this repayment obligation. within the united states, we retain exclusive commercialization rights to eylea and are entitled to all profits from any such sales. pdgfr-beta antibody outside the united states . in january 2014, we entered into a license and collaboration agreement with bayer healthcare governing the joint development and commercialization outside the united states of an antibody product candidate to pdgfr-beta, including in combination with eylea, for the treatment of ocular diseases or disorders. regn2176-3, a combination product candidate comprised of an antibody to pdgfr-beta co-formulated with eylea, is being developed under the agreement. under the agreement, we will conduct the initial development of the pdgfr-beta antibody through completion of the first proof-of-concept study, upon which bayer healthcare will have a right to opt-in to the collaboration for further development and commercialization outside the united states. in connection with the agreement, bayer healthcare made a $25.5 million non-refundable upfront payment to us in january 2014, and is obligated to pay 25% of global development costs and 50% of development costs exclusively for the territory outside the united states under the initial development plan. in addition, bayer healthcare is obligated to reimburse us for 50% of development milestone payments to sanofi related to our acquisition of rights to antibodies targeting the pdgf family of receptors in may 2013, as described above. in that regard, bayer healthcare made a $2.5 million payment to us in january 2014. further, in connection with our initial development of the pdgfr-beta antibody through completion of the first proof-of-concept study, we are eligible to receive up to $17.5 million in future development milestone payments from bayer healthcare, although certain of these development milestone payments could be reduced by half if bayer healthcare does not opt-in to the collaboration. if bayer healthcare exercises their right to opt-in to the collaboration, they will obtain exclusive commercialization rights to the product outside the united states, pay for 25% of global development costs and 50% of development costs exclusively for the territory outside the united states, pay a $20 million opt-in payment to us, pay a $20 million development milestone to us upon receipt of the first marketing approval in the european union or japan, share profits from sales outside the united states equally with us, and be responsible for the payment of royalties on sales outside the united states to sanofi. within the united states, we have exclusive commercialization rights and will retain all of the profits from sales. if bayer healthcare does not opt-in to the collaboration, we will have exclusive rights to develop and commercialize pdgfr-beta antibodies (except as a combination product with eylea) for use outside the united states. we also have the right to opt-out of the collaboration upon completion of the first proof-of-concept study for the pdgfr-beta antibody. if we opt-out of the collaboration and bayer healthcare exercises their right to opt-in to the collaboration, bayer healthcare will obtain exclusive rights to the pdgfr-beta antibody (except as a combination product with eylea) outside of the united states, be responsible for all development costs outside of the united states, be responsible for all royalty and milestone payments to a third party, and will retain all of the profits from sales of the pdgfr-beta antibody outside of the united states. unless terminated earlier in accordance with its provisions, the agreement will continue to be in effect until such time as neither party or its respective affiliates or sublicensees is developing or commercializing a pdgfr-beta antibody in the specified field outside of the united states and such discontinuation is acknowledged as permanent by both us and bayer healthcare in writing. under the agreement, bayer healthcare has also agreed to a standstill provision, which prohibits bayer healthcare and its affiliates from seeking to influence the control of our company or acquiring more than 20% of our then outstanding shares of class a stock and common stock (taken together). for further information regarding this provision, see part i, item 1a. risk factors - the anti-takeover effects of provisions of our charter, by-laws, and of new york corporate law, as well as the contractual provisions in our investor and collaboration agreements and certain provisions of our compensation plans and agreements and our convertible senior notes and related warrant and hedge transactions, could deter, delay, or prevent an acquisition or other change in control of us and could adversely affect the price of our common stock . 12 table of contents manufacturing our manufacturing facilities are located in rensselaer, new york and currently consist of three buildings totaling approximately 425,000 square feet of research, manufacturing, office, and warehouse space. we currently have approximately 54,000 liters of cell culture capacity at these facilities. a current expansion project will add 20,000 liters of cell culture capacity and 65,000 additional square feet of space once construction is completed, which is expected by 2015. at december 31, 2013 , we employed approximately 750 people at our rensselaer facilities. we also depend on a limited number of third party providers for other services with respect to our clinical and commercial product supply requirements, including product packaging, filling, and labeling. in july 2013, we reached preliminary agreement to acquire a 400,000 square foot facility in limerick, ireland, subject to entering into definitive agreements as well as securing permits from the local government in limerick. we intend to renovate this facility to accommodate and support our growth, primarily in connection with expanding our bulk manufacturing capacity to support our global supply chain. certain raw materials or other products necessary for the manufacture and formulation of eylea, zaltrap, arcalyst, and our product candidates are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. in addition, we rely on certain third parties to perform filling, finishing, distribution, laboratory testing, and other services related to the manufacture of eylea, zaltrap, arcalyst, and our product candidates, and to supply various raw materials and other products. see part i, item 1a. risk factors - risks related to manufacturing and supply for further information. among the conditions for regulatory marketing approval of a medicine is the requirement that the prospective manufacturer's quality control and manufacturing procedures conform to the good manufacturing practice (gmp) regulations of the health authority. in complying with standards set forth in these regulations, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money, and effort in the areas of production and quality control to ensure full technical compliance. manufacturing establishments, both foreign and domestic, are also subject to inspections by or under the authority of the fda and by other national, federal, state, and local agencies. we are approved to manufacture our marketed products at our rensselaer facilities. sales and marketing we have a new products marketing and planning group and a market research group to evaluate commercial opportunities for our targets and drug candidates, assess the competitive environment, and analyze the commercial potential of our product portfolio, and prepare for market launch of new products. this group works in close collaboration with our collaborators for co-developed products to develop marketing plans and forecasts and to develop and execute pre-launch market development programs. we also have a full-service commercialization group to handle various aspects of our eylea program. the group includes experienced professionals in the fields of marketing, communications, professional education, patient education and advocacy, reimbursement and managed markets, trade and distribution, commercial operations, commercial analytics, market research, and forecasting. moreover, we have hired, trained, and deployed a field-based organization including regional sales directors, medical sales specialists, and reimbursement managers, each typically with 7 or more years of experience in the biopharmaceutical industry in a variety of therapeutic areas including oncology, ophthalmology, immunology, and inflammation. we outsource the warehousing and distribution of our finished drug products. in connection with the sales and marketing of arcalyst for caps, we have a marketing, trade, reimbursement, and distribution group to provide case management and reimbursement services to patients with caps and their treating physicians. in connection with the u.s. marketing of zaltrap, we have a marketing and market access group to work in collaboration with sanofi. customers we sell eylea in the united states to three distributors and several specialty pharmacies. we sell arcalyst in the united states to two specialty pharmacies. under these distribution models, the distributors and specialty pharmacies generally take physical delivery of product. for eylea, the distributors and specialty pharmacies generally sell the product directly to healthcare providers, whereas for arcalyst, the specialty pharmacies sell the product directly to patients. for the years ended december 31, 2013 , 2012 , and 2011, we recorded 76% , 78% , and 42%, respectively, of our total gross product revenue from sales to a single distributor, besse medical, which is a subsidiary of amerisourcebergen corporation. 13 table of contents competition we face substantial competition from pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and chemical companies. our competitors include genentech (a member of the roche group), roche, novartis ag, pfizer inc., bayer healthcare, allergan, inc., eli lilly and company, abbvie inc., sanofi, merck &amp; co., inc., amgen inc., astrazeneca plc, bristol-myers squibb company, johnson &amp; johnson, glaxosmithkline plc, and others. many of our competitors have substantially greater research, preclinical, and clinical product development and manufacturing capabilities, and financial, marketing, and human resources than we do. competition from smaller competitors may also be or become more significant if those competitors acquire or discover patentable inventions, form collaborative arrangements, or merge with large pharmaceutical companies. even if we are able to commercialize additional product candidates, one or more of our competitors may have brought a competitive product to market earlier than us or may have obtained or obtain patent protection that dominates or adversely affects our activities or products. our ability to compete depends, to a great extent, on how fast we can develop safe and effective product candidates, complete clinical testing and approval processes, and supply commercial quantities of the product to the market. competition among product candidates approved for sale is based on efficacy, safety, reliability, availability, price, patent position, and other factors. eylea. the following table provides an overview of the competitive landscape for eylea: competitor product/product candidate commercial or development status competitor indication territory lucentis approved novartis/genentech wet amd, dme, macular edema following rvo, choroidal neovascularization secondary to pathologic myopia, and other eye indications worldwide avastin (off-label) used to treat wet amd, dme, and macular edema following rvo genentech wet amd, dme, and macular edema following rvo sold worldwide being evaluated in trials in the united kingdom, canada, brazil, germany, and other countries conbercept approved in china for wet amd in development for other eye indications chengdu kanghong pharmaceutical group wet amd china fovista tm , an aptamer directed against pdgf-b in development (phase 3 trials initiated in 2013 evaluating multiple combinations of fovista tm , including lucentis + fovista tm , avastin + fovista tm , and eylea + fovista tm ) ophthotech corporation wet amd esba1008, a single chain antibody fragment directed against vegf-a in development (phase 2 trial initiated in 2013 comparing esba1008 and eylea) novartis wet amd anti-vegf-a-darpin in development (phase 2) allergan wet amd and related conditions bi-specific antibody r06867461 in development (phase 1) genentech wet amd lucentis sustained delivery system in development (phase 1) genentech wet amd and related conditions the table above is not exhaustive. for additional information regarding the substantial competition eylea faces, see part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to commercialization of eylea - the commercial success of eylea is subject to strong 14 table of contents competition " and part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to commercialization of products - our marketed products are subject to significant competition, and our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if any are approved for marketing, may face significant competition. " zaltrap. the following table provides an overview of the competitive landscape for zaltrap: competitor product/product candidate commercial or development status competitor indication territory avastin approved and launched in 2004 genentech certain cancers worldwide oral medications that target tumor cell growth and new vasculature formation that fuels growth of tumors being sold and marketed pfizer, amgen (together with its partner bayer healthcare), glaxosmithkline, and bayer healthcare certain cancers worldwide other vegf antagonists in various phases of development novartis, amgen, imclone llc/eli lilly, pfizer, astrazeneca, glaxosmithkline, and aveo certain cancers the table above is not exhaustive. for additional information regarding the substantial competition zaltrap faces, see item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to commercialization of products - our marketed products are subject to significant competition, and our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if any are approved for marketing, may face significant competition ." 15 table of contents monoclonal antibodies. our clinical candidates in development are all fully human monoclonal antibodies which were generated using our velocimmune technology. our antibody generation technologies and clinical candidates face competition from many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies using various technologies. numerous other companies are developing therapeutic antibody products. companies such as pfizer, johnson &amp; johnson, astrazeneca, amgen, biogen idec, inc., novartis, genentech, bristol-myers squibb, abbvie, and glaxosmithkline have generated therapeutic products that are currently in development or on the market that are derived from recombinant dna that comprise human antibody sequences. astellas has licensed our velocimmune technology as part of their internal antibody development programs. the following table provides an overview of the competitive landscape for our antibody programs that are in late-stage clinical development. regeneron antibody program competitor competitor product/product candidate commercial or development status target alirocumab (phase 3) target: pcsk9 amgen evolocumab (amg-145) in development (phase 3) antibody against pcsk9 pfizer bococizumab (rn316 / pf-04950615 in development (phase 3) antibody against pcsk9 genentech rg7652 in development (phase 2) antibody against pcsk9 eli lilly ly3015014 in development (phase 2) antibody against pcsk9 bristol-myers squibb bms-962476 in development (phase 1) adnectin against pcsk9 alnylam (in partnership with the medicines company) aln-pcs in development rnai against pcsk9 16 table of contents regeneron antibody program competitor competitor product/product candidate commercial or development status target sarilumab (phase 3) target: il-6r roche tocilizumab (actemra ) approved antibody against il-6r for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis johnson &amp; johnson (in partnership with glaxosmithkline) sirukumab in development (phase 3) antibody against il-6 bristol-myers squibb (in partnership with alder biopharmaceuticals, inc.) clazakizumab in development (phase 2) antibody against il-6 ablynx (in partnership with abbvie) alx-0061 in development (phase 2) antibody against il-6r r-pharm olokizumab in development (phase 2) antibody against il-6 pfizer pf-04236921 in development (phase 1) antibody against il-6 roche sa 237 in development (phase 1) antibody against il-6r dupilumab (phase 2) target: il-4r roche lebrikizumab in development (phase 3) antibody against il-13 teva reslizumab in development (phase 3) antibody against il-5 glaxosmithkline mepolizumab in development (phase 3) antibody against il-5 astrazeneca benralizumab in development (phase 3) antibody against il-5r astrazeneca tralokinumab in development (phase 2) antibody against il-13 novartis qbx258 in development (phase 2) fixed dose combination of antibodies against il-4 and il-13 glaxosmithkline gsk2434735 in development (phase 1) bi-specific antibody against il-4 and il-13 the table above is not exhaustive. for additional information regarding our antibody programs and the substantial competition they face, see "clinical programs" above and part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to commercialization of products - our marketed products are subject to significant competition, and our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if any are approved for marketing, may face significant competition ." other areas. many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are attempting to discover new therapeutics for indications in which we invest substantial time and resources. in these and related areas, intellectual property rights have been sought and certain rights have been granted to competitors and potential competitors of ours, and we may be at a substantial competitive disadvantage in such areas as a result of, among other things, our lack of experience, trained personnel, and expertise. a number of corporate and academic competitors are involved in the discovery and development of novel therapeutics that are the focus of 17 table of contents other research or development programs we are now conducting. many firms and entities are engaged in research and development in the areas of cytokines, interleukins, angiogenesis, and muscle conditions. some of these competitors are currently conducting advanced preclinical and clinical research programs in these areas. these and other competitors may have established substantial intellectual property and other competitive advantages. if any of these or other competitors announces a successful clinical study involving a product that may be competitive with one of our product candidates or the grant of marketing approval by a regulatory agency for a competitive product, such developments may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, cash flows, or future prospects. we also compete with academic institutions, governmental agencies, and other public or private research organizations, which conduct research, seek patent protection, and establish collaborative arrangements for the development and marketing of products that would provide royalties or other consideration for use of their technology. these institutions are becoming more active in seeking patent protection and licensing arrangements to collect royalties or other consideration for use of the technology they have developed. products developed in this manner may compete directly with products we develop. we also compete with others in acquiring technology from these institutions, agencies, and organizations. patents, trademarks, and trade secrets our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain patents, maintain trade secret protection, and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties (see part i, item 1a. risk factors - risks related to intellectual property and market exclusivity - we may be restricted in our development, manufacturing, and/or commercialization activities by, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed, patents or other proprietary rights of others. ). our policy is to file patent applications to protect technology, inventions, and improvements that we consider important to our business and operations. as of december 31, 2013, we held an ownership interest in a total of approximately 233 issued patents in the united states and approximately 1,162 issued patents in foreign countries with respect to our products and technologies. in addition, we hold an ownership interest in hundreds of patent applications in the united states and foreign countries. our patent portfolio includes granted patents and pending patent applications covering our velocisuite technologies, including our velocimmune mouse platform which produces fully human monoclonal antibodies. our issued patents covering these technologies generally expire between 2020 and 2028. however, we continue to file patent applications directed to improvements to these technology platforms. our patent portfolio also includes issued patents and pending applications relating to our marketed products, eylea, zaltrap, and arcalyst, and our product candidates in clinical development. these patents cover the proteins and dna encoding the proteins, manufacturing patents, method of use patents, and pharmaceutical compositions, as well as various methods of using the products. for each of eylea, zaltrap, and arcalyst, these patents generally expire between 2020 and 2028. however, the projected patent terms may be subject to extension based on potential patent term extensions in countries where such extensions are available. we also are the nonexclusive licensee of a number of additional patents and patent applications. in december 2011, we and genentech entered into a non-exclusive license and partial settlement agreement relating to ophthalmic sales of eylea in the united states. pursuant to this agreement, we received a non-exclusive license to certain patents relating to vegf receptor proteins, known as the davis-smyth patents, and other technology patents. in may 2013, we entered into an amended and restated non-exclusive license and settlement agreement with genentech; under the amended agreement, we received a worldwide non-exclusive license to the davis-smyth patents, and certain other patents, owned or co-owned by genentech for the prevention or treatment of human eye diseases and eye disorders through administration of eylea to the eye. also in may 2013, we entered into a non-exclusive license and settlement agreement with genentech and sanofi under which we and sanofi received a worldwide non-exclusive license to the davis-smyth patents, and certain other patents, in all indications for human use other than the prevention or treatment of eye diseases and eye disorders through administration to the eye. in july 2008 we entered into an amended and restated non-exclusive license agreement with cellectis s.a. pursuant to which we licensed certain patents and patent applications relating to a process for the specific replacement of a copy of a gene in the receiver genome by homologous recombination. we also have non-exclusive license agreements with amgen and other organizations for patent rights related to arcalyst. patent law relating to the patentability and scope of claims in the biotechnology field is evolving and our patent rights are subject to this additional uncertainty. the degree of patent protection that will be afforded to our products in the united states and other important commercial markets is uncertain and is dependent upon the scope of protection decided upon by the patent offices, courts, and governments in these countries. there is no certainty that our existing patents or others, if obtained, will provide us protection from competition or provide commercial benefit. 18 table of contents others may independently develop similar products or processes to those developed by us, duplicate any of our products or processes or, if patents are issued to us, design around any products and processes covered by our patents. we expect to continue, when appropriate, to file product and process applications with respect to our inventions. however, we may not file any such applications or, if filed, the patents may not be issued. patents issued to or licensed by us may be infringed by the products or processes of others. defense and enforcement of our intellectual property rights is expensive and time consuming, even if the outcome is favorable to us. it is possible that patents issued or licensed to us will be successfully challenged, that a court may find that we are infringing validly issued patents of third parties, or that we may have to alter or discontinue the development of our products or pay licensing fees to take into account patent rights of third parties (see part i, item 1a. risk factors - risks related to intellectual property and market exclusivity - we may be restricted in our development, manufacturing, and/or commercialization activities by, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed, patents or other proprietary rights of others. ). government regulation regulation by government authorities in the united states and foreign countries is a significant factor in the research, development, manufacture, and marketing of eylea, zaltrap, arcalyst, and our product candidates (see part i, item 1a. risk factors - risks related to commercialization of eylea - our regulatory approval for sales of eylea is limited to the treatment of wet amd and macular edema following crvo and is limited geographically. if we don't receive approval for eylea for other indications, or if approvals are not obtained for sales in other countries, our sales and profits will be limited and risks related to the development and approval of our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products - if we do not obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our products and product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, we will not be able to market or sell them, which would materially and negatively impact our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. ) . all of our product candidates will require regulatory approval before they can be commercialized. in particular, human therapeutic products are subject to rigorous preclinical and clinical trials and other pre-market approval requirements by the fda and foreign authorities. many aspects of the structure and substance of the fda and foreign pharmaceutical regulatory practices have been reformed during recent years, and continued reform is under consideration in a number of jurisdictions. the ultimate outcome and impact of such reforms and potential reforms cannot be predicted. the activities required before a product candidate may be marketed in the united states begin with preclinical tests. preclinical tests include laboratory evaluations and animal studies to assess the potential safety and efficacy of the product candidate and its formulations. the results of these studies must be submitted to the fda as part of an ind, which must be reviewed by the fda before proposed clinical testing can begin. typically, clinical testing involves a three-phase process. in phase 1, trials are conducted with a small number of subjects to determine the early safety profile of the product candidate. in phase 2, clinical trials are conducted with subjects afflicted with a specific disease or disorder to provide enough data to evaluate the preliminary safety, tolerability, and efficacy of different potential doses of the product candidate. in phase 3, large-scale clinical trials are conducted with patients afflicted with the specific disease or disorder in order to provide enough data to understand the efficacy and safety profile of the product candidate, as required by the fda. the results of the preclinical and clinical testing of a biologic product candidate are then submitted to the fda in the form of a bla for evaluation to determine whether the product candidate may be approved for commercial sale. in responding to a bla, the fda may grant marketing approval, request additional information, or deny the application. any approval required by the fda for any of our product candidates may not be obtained on a timely basis, or at all. the designation of a clinical trial as being of a particular phase is not necessarily indicative that such a trial will be sufficient to satisfy the parameters of a particular phase, and a clinical trial may contain elements of more than one phase notwithstanding the designation of the trial as being of a particular phase. the results of preclinical studies or early stage clinical trials may not predict long-term safety or efficacy of our compounds when they are tested or used more broadly in humans. approval of a product candidate by comparable regulatory authorities in foreign countries is generally required prior to commencement of marketing of the product in those countries. the approval procedure varies among countries and may involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain such approval may differ from that required for fda approval. various federal, state, and foreign statutes and regulations also govern or influence the research, manufacture, safety, labeling, storage, record keeping, marketing, transport, and other aspects of pharmaceutical product candidates. the lengthy process of seeking these approvals and the compliance with applicable statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial resources. any failure by us or our collaborators or licensees to obtain, or any delay in obtaining, regulatory approvals could adversely affect the manufacturing or marketing of our products and our ability to receive product or royalty revenue. in addition to the foregoing, our present and future business will be subject to regulation under the united states atomic energy act, the clean air act, the clean water act, the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act, the 19 table of contents national environmental policy act, the toxic substances control act, the resource conservation and recovery act, national restrictions, and other current and potential future local, state, federal, and foreign regulations. business segments we manage our business as one segment which includes all activities related to the discovery of pharmaceutical products for the treatment of serious medical conditions and the development and commercialization of these discoveries. this segment includes revenues and expenses related to (i) product sales of eylea and arcalyst, (ii) research and development activities conducted under our collaboration agreements with third parties, (iii) our share of the income (loss) from commercialization of products under our collaboration agreements, (iv) licensing agreements to utilize our velocimmune technology, and (v) the supply of specified, ordered research materials using our velocigen e technology platform. employees as of december 31, 2013 , we had approximately 2,340 full-time employees, of whom approximately 410 held a ph.d. and/or m.d., or pharmd degree. we believe that we have been successful in attracting skilled and experienced personnel in a highly competitive environment; however, competition for these personnel is intense. none of our personnel are covered by collective bargaining agreements and our management considers its relations with our employees to be good. corporate information we were incorporated in the state of new york in 1988 and publicly listed in 1991. our principal executive offices are located at 777 old saw mill river road, tarrytown, new york 10591, and our telephone number at that address is (914) 847-7000. we make available free of charge on or through our internet website (http://www.regeneron.com) our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the securities and exchange commission (sec). item 1a. risk factors we operate in an environment that involves a number of significant risks and uncertainties. we caution you to read the following risk factors, which have affected, and/or in the future could affect, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. the risks described below include forward-looking statements, and actual events and our actual results may differ materially from these forward-looking statements. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. furthermore, additional risks and uncertainties are described under other captions in this report and should also be considered by our investors. risks related to commercialization of eylea we are substantially dependent on the success of eylea. if we are unable to continue to commercialize eylea or if we are unable to obtain additional marketing approvals, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition will be materially harmed. eylea net sales represent a substantial portion of our revenues and this concentration of our net sales in a single product makes us substantially dependent on that product. for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012 , eylea net sales in the united states represented 67% and 61% of our total revenues, respectively. if we were to experience difficulty with the commercialization of eylea in the united states, if bayer healthcare were to experience any difficulty with the commercialization of eylea outside the united states, or if we and bayer healthcare are unable to maintain current marketing approvals of eylea, we may experience a reduction in revenue and may not be able to sustain profitability, and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be materially harmed. in addition, if we are unable to obtain approval of eylea in the united states for the treatment of dme, or if bayer healthcare is unable to obtain approval of eylea in additional countries or in additional indications, our prospects would be materially harmed. 20 table of contents we are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight with respect to eylea. if we fail to maintain regulatory compliance for eylea, we may lose marketing approval, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. eylea is currently available in the united states, eu, japan, and certain other countries outside of the united states for treatment of wet amd and macular edema following crvo. we are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations with respect to eylea for the treatment of wet amd and macular edema following crvo in the united states and the eu, and, in other countries, the commercialization of eylea is subject to additional significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight in those countries where the product is approved. if we fail to maintain regulatory compliance for eylea for the treatment of wet amd and macular edema following crvo, we may lose marketing approval, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. failure to comply may also subject us to sanctions, product recalls, or withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications. see also risks related to manufacturing and supply if we fail to meet the stringent requirements of governmental regulation in the manufacture of drug products or product candidates, we could incur substantial remedial costs, delays in the development or approval of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products and/or in their commercial launch if they obtain regulatory approval, and a reduction in sales below. serious complications or side effects in connection with the use of eylea could materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. there are risks inherent in intravitreal injections, including intravitreal injections with eylea, such as intraocular inflammation, sterile and culture positive endophthalmitis, corneal decomposition, retinal detachment, retinal tear, and other side effects, all of which are reported from time to time to the fda. serious complications or serious, unexpected side effects in connection with the use of eylea could materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. our regulatory approval for sales of eylea is limited to the treatment of wet amd and macular edema following crvo and is limited geographically. if we don't receive approval for eylea for other indications, or if approvals are not obtained for sales in other countries, sales and profits will be limited. we and bayer healthcare have received regulatory approvals for sale of eylea for the treatment of wet amd and macular edema following crvo in certain countries throughout the world. if we do not receive approval for eylea for other uses, or if approvals for sales in other countries are not obtained, sales will be limited and our potential for profits will be limited. as a result, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be materially impacted. 21 table of contents our sales of eylea are dependent on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payers, and changes to such reimbursement may materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. our sales in the united states of eylea are dependent, in part, on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payers, including private payer healthcare and insurance programs and government programs such as medicare and medicaid. sales of eylea in other countries are dependent, in part, on similar programs in those countries. in the united states, there is an increased focus from the federal government and others on analyzing the impact of various regulatory programs on the federal deficit, which could result in increased pressure on federal programs to reduce costs, including limiting federal healthcare expenditures. economic pressure on state budgets may also have a similar impact. a reduction in the availability or extent of reimbursement from u.s. government programs could have a material adverse effect on the sales of eylea. since eylea is too expensive for most patients to afford without health insurance coverage, if adequate coverage and reimbursement by third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid in the united states, is not available, our ability to successfully commercialize eylea will be materially adversely impacted. our sales and potential profits and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be materially harmed. see also "risks related to commercialization of products the successful commercialization of our marketed products, as well as our late-stage product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if approved, will depend on obtaining coverage and reimbursement for use of these products from third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid in the united states, and these payers may not agree to cover or adequately reimburse for use of our products or may do so at levels that make our products uncompetitive and/or unprofitable, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition " below. the commercial success of eylea is subject to strong competition. the market for eye disease products is very competitive, as summarized under part i, item 1. business - competition - eylea above. novartis and genentech are collaborating on the commercialization and further development of a vegf antibody fragment, lucentis , for the treatment of wet amd, macular edema following crvo, dme, visual impairment due to mcnv, and other eye indications. lucentis was approved by the fda in june 2006 for the treatment of wet amd, in june 2010 for the treatment of macular edema following rvo (including crvo and brvo), and in august 2012 for the treatment of dme. lucentis was also approved by the european medicines agency for wet amd in january 2007, for dme in january 2011, for the treatment of macular edema following rvo (including crvo and brvo) in june 2011, and for mcnv in july 2013. many other companies are working on the development of product candidates and extended delivery devices for the potential treatment of wet amd, dme and rvo including those that act by blocking vegf and vegf receptors, as well as small interfering ribonucleic acids (sirnas) that modulate gene expression. for example, in january 2012, genentech submitted an ind for such an extended delivery device. novartis is developing esba1008, a humanized monoclonal single-chain fv (scfv) antibody fragment targeting vegf-a for wet amd, and initiated phase 2 trials comparing esba1008 and eylea in 2013. allergan is developing an anti-vegf-a darpin for wet amd and related conditions and a phase 2 trial is ongoing. additionally, companies are developing products (or combinations of products) to treat wet amd that act by blocking vegf and vegf receptors, as well as other targets (for example, pdgf). ophthotech corporation is developing fovista , an aptamer directed against platelet-derived growth factor subunit b (pdgf-b), as a product candidate intended to be used in combination with an anti-vegf therapy in wet amd. in 2013, ophthotech initiated phase 3 trials in amd evaluating multiple combinations of fovista , including lucentis + fovista , avastin + fovista , and eylea + fovista . genentech initiated a phase 1 trial of a bi-specific antibody for wet amd. in addition, ophthalmologists are using with success off-label, third-party repackaged versions of genentech's approved vegf antagonist, avastin , for the treatment of wet amd, dme, and rvo. the relatively low cost of therapy with avastin in patients with wet amd presents a significant competitive challenge in this indication. long-term, controlled clinical trials comparing lucentis to avastin in the treatment of wet amd are being conducted. one-year data from the comparison of age-related macular degeneration treatments trial (catt) were reported in april 2011 and indicated that avastin dosed monthly was non-inferior to lucentis dosed monthly in the primary efficacy endpoint of mean visual acuity gain at 52 weeks. two-year data from catt were reported in april 2012 and indicated that monthly avastin was non-inferior to monthly lucentis in mean visual acuity gain; as-needed dosing was not non-inferior to monthly dosing. avastin is also being evaluated in eye diseases in trials that have been initiated in the united kingdom, canada, brazil, mexico, germany, israel, and other countries. furthermore, lucentis and off-label use of avastin present significant competitive challenges as doctors and patients have had significant experience using these medicines. moreover, the reported results of the catt study, combined with the relatively low cost of avastin in treating patients with wet amd, may well exacerbate the competitive challenge which eylea faces in this or other eye indications for which it may be approved. finally, zaltrap has not been manufactured and formulated for use in intravitreal injections, and while we believe that zaltrap would not be well tolerated if administered directly to the eye, there is a risk that third parties may attempt to repackage zaltrap for off-label use and sale for the treatment of wet amd and other diseases of the eye, which would present a potential low-cost competitive threat to eylea for wet amd, macular edema following crvo, or other eye indications. see also risks related to commercialization of products we may be unsuccessful in continuing the commercialization of our marketed products or in commercializing our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if approved, which would materially and adversely affect our business, profitability, and future prospects below. 22 table of contents our product sales could be reduced by imports from countries where our products are available at lower prices. our sales of products in the united states may be reduced if our products are imported into the united states from lower priced markets, whether legally or illegally. under our arrangement with bayer healthcare, pricing and reimbursement for eylea outside the united states is the responsibility of bayer healthcare. prices for eylea in territories outside the united states will be based on local market economics and competition and are likely to differ from country to country. in the united states, prices for pharmaceuticals are generally higher than in the bordering nations of canada and mexico and our sales of eylea in the united states may be reduced if eylea is marketed in those nations and imported into the united states. in addition, there have been proposals to legalize the import of pharmaceuticals from outside the united states. if such legislation were enacted, our future revenues could be reduced. risks related to the development and approval of our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products if we do not obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our products and product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, we will not be able to market or sell them, which would materially and negatively impact our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. we cannot sell or market products without regulatory approval. if we do not maintain regulatory approval for our marketed products, and obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, or new indications of our marketed products, including eylea for the treatment of ophthalmologic diseases other than wet amd and macular edema following crvo, the value of our company and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition will be materially harmed. our product candidates, including eylea for dme and macular edema following brvo, may not receive regulatory approval. if we are unable to obtain regulatory approval for eylea in dme and macular edema following brvo, or if we are materially delayed in doing so, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition will be materially harmed. in addition, if we fail to maintain regulatory approval for eylea for the treatment of wet amd and macular edema following crvo, we may lose marketing approval and the ability to generate eylea product sales revenue, which would materially and negatively impact our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval for drug products is costly, time-consuming, and highly uncertain. in the united states, we must obtain and maintain approval from the fda for each drug we intend to sell. obtaining fda approval is typically a lengthy and expensive process, and approval is highly uncertain. foreign governments also regulate drugs distributed in their country and approval in any country is similarly likely to be a lengthy and expensive process, and approval is highly uncertain. the fda enforces good clinical practices (gcps) and other regulations through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, clinical research organizations (cros), principal investigators, and trial sites. if we or any of the third parties conducting our clinical studies are determined to have failed to fully comply with gcps, the study protocol or applicable regulations, the clinical data generated in those studies may be deemed unreliable. this could result in non-approval of our product candidates by the fda, or we or the fda may decide to conduct additional audits or require additional clinical studies, which would delay our development programs, require us to incur additional costs, and could substantially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. before approving a new drug or biologic product, the fda requires that the facilities at which the product will be manufactured or advanced through the supply chain be in compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cgmp, requirements and regulations governing the manufacture, shipment, and storage of the product. manufacturing product candidates in compliance with these regulatory requirements is complex, time-consuming, and expensive. to be successful, our products must be manufactured in compliance with regulatory requirements, and at competitive costs. if we or any of our product collaborators, or third-party manufacturers, product packagers, labelers, or other parties performing steps in the supply chain are unable to maintain regulatory compliance, the fda can impose regulatory sanctions, including, among other things, refusal to approve a pending application for a new drug or biologic product, or revocation of a pre-existing approval. as a result, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed. in addition to the fda and other regulatory agency regulations in the united states, we are subject to a variety of foreign regulatory requirements governing human clinical trials, manufacturing, marketing and approval of drugs, and commercial sale and distribution of drugs in foreign countries. the foreign regulatory approval process and requirements include all of the risks associated with fda approval as well as country specific regulations, and actions by a regulatory agency in a country or region with respect to a product candidate may have an impact on the approval process for that product candidate in another country or region. whether or not we obtain fda approval for a product in the united states, we must obtain approval of the product by the comparable regulatory authorities in foreign countries before we can conduct clinical trials of or market that product or any other product in those countries. 23 table of contents preclinical and clinical studies required for our product candidates and new indications of our marketed products are expensive and time-consuming, and their outcome is highly uncertain. if any such studies are delayed or yield unfavorable results, regulatory approval for our product candidates or new indications of our marketed products may be delayed or become unobtainable. as described above, we must conduct extensive testing of our product candidates and new indications of our marketed products before we can obtain regulatory approval to market and sell them. we need to conduct both preclinical animal testing and human clinical trials. conducting such studies is a lengthy, time-consuming, and expensive process. these tests and trials may not achieve favorable results for many reasons, including, among others, failure of the product candidate to demonstrate safety or efficacy, the development of serious or life-threatening adverse events (or side effects) caused by or connected with exposure to the product candidate, difficulty in enrolling and maintaining subjects in a clinical trial, lack of sufficient supplies of the product candidate or comparator drug, and the failure of clinical investigators, trial monitors, contractors, consultants, or trial subjects to comply with the trial plan, protocol, or applicable regulations related to good laboratory practices (glps) or gcps. a clinical trial may fail because it did not include and retain a sufficient number of patients to detect the endpoint being measured or reach statistical significance. a clinical trial may also fail because the dose(s) of the investigational drug included in the trial were either too low or too high to determine the optimal effect of the investigational drug in the disease setting. we will need to reevaluate any drug candidate that does not test favorably and either conduct new studies, which are expensive and time consuming, or abandon that drug development program. if preclinical testing yields unfavorable results, product candidates may not advance to clinical trials. the failure of clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of our clinical candidates for the desired indication(s) would preclude the successful development of those candidates for such indication(s), in which event our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed. successful development of our current and future product candidates is uncertain. only a small minority of all research and development programs ultimately result in commercially successful drugs. clinical trials may not demonstrate statistically sufficient effectiveness and safety to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for these product candidates in these indications. many companies in the biopharmaceutical industry, including our company, have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, even after promising results have been obtained in earlier trials. in a number of instances, we have terminated the development of product candidates due to a lack of or only modest effectiveness. for example, a randomized, double-blind phase 3 trial (venice) that evaluated zaltrap as a first-line treatment for metastatic androgen-independent prostate cancer in combination with docetaxel/prednisone did not meet the pre-specified criterion of improvement in overall survival in april 2011. moreover, even if we obtain positive results from preclinical testing or clinical trials, we may not achieve the same success in future trials, or the fda and analogous foreign regulatory authorities may deem the results insufficient for an approval. for instance, based on the results of three phase 3 studies, we submitted a supplemental bla filing to the fda seeking approval of arcalyst for the prevention of gout flares in patients initiating uric acid-lowering drug therapy. in may 2012, the arthritis advisory committee of the fda voted to recommend against approval of arcalyst for the prevention of gout flares in patients initiating uric acid-lowering drug therapy and, in july 2012, we received a complete response letter from the fda requesting additional information, including clinical data, as well as additional cmc information related to a proposed new dosage form. we have discontinued development of arcalyst for gout. many of our clinical trials are conducted under the oversight of independent data monitoring committees (idmcs). these independent oversight bodies are made up of external experts who review the progress of ongoing clinical trials, including available safety and efficacy data, and make recommendations concerning a trial's continuation, modification, or termination based on interim, unblinded data. any of our ongoing clinical trials may be discontinued or amended in response to recommendations made by responsible idmcs based on their review of such interim trial results. for example, in september 2009, a phase 3 trial that was evaluating zaltrap as a first-line treatment for metastatic pancreatic cancer in combination with gemcitabine was discontinued at the recommendation of an idmc after a planned analysis of interim efficacy data determined that the trial would not meet its efficacy endpoint. the recommended termination of any of our ongoing late-stage clinical trials by an idmc could negatively impact the future development of our product candidate(s), and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed. we are studying our antibody candidates in a wide variety of indications in clinical trials. many of these trials are exploratory studies designed to evaluate the safety profile of these compounds and to identify what diseases and uses, if any, are best suited for these product candidates. these product candidates may not demonstrate the requisite efficacy and/or safety profile to support continued development for some or all of the indications that are being, or are planned to be, studied, which would diminish our clinical pipeline and could negatively affect our future prospects and the value of our company. 24 table of contents serious complications or side effects in connection with the use of our products and in clinical trials for our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products could cause our regulatory approvals to be revoked or limited or lead to delay or discontinuation of development of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, which could severely harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. during the conduct of clinical trials, patients report changes in their health, including illnesses, injuries, and discomforts, to their study doctor. often, it is not possible to determine whether or not the drug candidate being studied caused these conditions. various illnesses, injuries, and discomforts have been reported from time-to-time during clinical trials of our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products. it is possible that as we test our drug candidates or new indications in larger, longer, and more extensive clinical programs, or as use of these drugs becomes more widespread if they receive regulatory approval, illnesses, injuries, and discomforts that were observed in earlier trials, as well as conditions that did not occur or went undetected in previous trials, will be reported by patients. many times, side effects are only detectable after investigational drugs are tested in large-scale, phase 3 clinical trials or, in some cases, after they are made available to patients after approval. if additional clinical experience indicates that any of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products has many side effects or causes serious or life-threatening side effects, the development of the product candidate may be delayed or fail, or, if the product candidate has received regulatory approval, such approval may be revoked, which would severely harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. eylea is being studied in diseases of the eye in addition to wet amd and macular edema following crvo. there are many potential safety concerns associated with significant blockade of vegf that may limit our ability to further successfully develop and/or commercialize eylea and zaltrap. these serious and potentially life-threatening risks, based on clinical and preclinical experience of vegf inhibitors, include bleeding, intestinal perforation, hypertension, proteinuria, congestive heart failure, heart attack, and stroke. in addition, patients given infusions of any protein, including zaltrap delivered through intravenous administration, may develop severe hypersensitivity reactions or infusion reactions. other vegf blockers have reported side effects that became evident only after large-scale trials or after marketing approval when large numbers of patients were treated. there are risks inherent in the intravitreal administration of drugs like eylea, which can cause injury to the eye and other complications. for example, in our phase 3 trials of eylea in wet amd, the most frequent ocular adverse events were conjunctival hemorrhage, macular degeneration, eye pain, retinal hemorrhage, and vitreous floaters. these and other complications or side effects could harm the development and/or commercialization of eylea or zaltrap. we and sanofi are conducting a global development program, currently in phase 3, studying alirocumab, our pcsk9 antibody for the reduction of ldl cholesterol, as discussed above in part i, item 1. "business - clinical programs." as part of this development program, we and sanofi collect adverse events and report them to the fda and foreign regulatory authorities. in the phase 2 program, injection site reactions were the most common adverse events with alirocumab, and were rare. rare cases of hypersensitivity reaction were also reported. in a recent phase 3 trial comparing alirocumab with ezetimibe, the most common class of adverse events was infections (39.2% with ezetimibe vs. 42.3% with alirocumab), which included nasopharyngitis, influenza, and upper respiratory tract infection. injection-site reactions occurred in less than 2% of patients in both groups. muscle-related adverse events occurred in 3.9% of patients treated with ezetimibe and 3.8% of patients treated with alirocumab. we and sanofi have been advised by the fda that it has become aware of neurocognitive adverse events in the pcsk9 inhibitor class. neurocognitive adverse events have also been associated with the use of statins for lowering ldl cholesterol. we do not know the circumstances under which the fda became aware of these adverse events or whether these adverse events were observed with a drug candidate tested as monotherapy or in combination with a statin or other cholesterol-lowering agent. the fda has requested that we and sanofi make an assessment of potential neurocognitive adverse events across the global development program for alirocumab, especially in the longer-term studies. additionally, the fda requested that we address the feasibility of incorporating neurocognitive testing into at least a subset of patients in our odyssey outcomes trial or other long-term phase 3 trial(s). while we are not aware of any neurocognitive adverse event signal relating to alirocumab, if this or another adverse event signal is detected, the further development of alirocumab may be delayed or fail, or its commercial value diminished, which could severely harm our future prospects. we have studied fasinumab in a variety of pain indications, including osteoarthritis of the knee. in december 2010, the fda placed fasinumab and other investigational agents targeting ngf on clinical hold after a case of rapidly progressive osteoarthritis leading to joint replacement was seen in another company's anti-ngf program due to the fda's concern that this case was suggestive of a class effect. in december 2012, the fda removed the clinical hold on fasinumab after reviewing our proposed phase 3 program in osteoarthritis. however, shortly thereafter, the entire class was again placed on clinical hold as a result of preclinical data from other investigational agents targeting ngf in development. there are currently no trials with fasinumab that are either enrolling or treating patients. discussions with the fda about fasinumab are ongoing. 25 table of contents our product candidates in development are recombinant proteins that could cause an immune response, resulting in the creation of harmful or neutralizing antibodies against the therapeutic protein. in addition to the safety, efficacy, manufacturing, and regulatory hurdles faced by our product candidates, the administration of recombinant proteins frequently causes an immune response, resulting in the creation of antibodies against the therapeutic protein. the antibodies can have no effect or can totally neutralize the effectiveness of the protein, or require that higher doses be used to obtain a therapeutic effect. in some cases, the antibody can cross-react with the patient's own proteins, resulting in an auto-immune type disease. whether antibodies will be created can often not be predicted from preclinical or clinical experiments, and their detection or appearance is often delayed, so neutralizing antibodies may be detected at a later date, in some cases even after pivotal clinical trials have been completed. we may be unable to formulate or manufacture our product candidates in a way that is suitable for clinical or commercial use, which would delay or prevent continued development of such candidates and/or receipt of regulatory approval or commercial sale, which could materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. if we are unable to continue to develop suitable product formulations or manufacturing processes to support large-scale clinical testing of our product candidates, including our antibody candidates, we may be unable to supply necessary materials for our clinical trials, which would delay or prevent the development of our product candidates. similarly, if we are unable, directly or through our collaborators or third parties, to supply sufficient quantities of our products or develop formulations of our product candidates suitable for commercial use, we will be unable to obtain regulatory approval for those product candidates. risks related to intellectual property and market exclusivity if we cannot protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets or our patents are insufficient to protect our proprietary rights, our business and competitive position will be harmed. our business requires using sensitive and proprietary technology and other information that we protect as trade secrets. we seek to prevent improper disclosure of these trade secrets through confidentiality agreements. if our trade secrets are improperly disclosed, by our own employees, our collaborators or otherwise, it would help our competitors and adversely affect our business. we will be able to protect our proprietary rights only to the extent that our proprietary technologies and other information are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. the patent position of biotechnology companies, including our company, involves complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, enforceability cannot be predicted with certainty. our patents may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented. patent applications filed outside the united states may be challenged by other parties, for example, by filing an opposition. such opposition proceedings are increasingly common in the eu and are costly to defend. we have pending patent applications in the united states patent and trademark office, the european patent office, and the patent offices of other foreign jurisdictions, and it is likely that we will need to defend patent applications from challenges by others from time to time in the future. certain patent applications filed in the united states may also be challenged by parties who file a request for post-grant review under the america invents act of 2011. we expect that post-grant review proceedings will become common in the united states and will be costly to defend. our patent rights may not provide us with a proprietary position or competitive advantages against competitors. furthermore, even if the outcome is favorable to us, the enforcement of our intellectual property rights can be extremely expensive and time consuming. we may be restricted in our development, manufacturing, and/or commercialization activities by, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed, patents or other proprietary rights of others. our commercial success depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of others. other parties may allege that they own blocking patents to our products in clinical development or even to products that have received regulatory approval and are being or have been commercialized, either because they claim to hold proprietary rights to the composition of a product or the way it is manufactured or the way it is used. moreover, other parties may allege that they have blocking patents to antibody products made using our velocimmune technology, either because of the way the antibodies are discovered or produced or because of a proprietary composition covering an antibody or the antibody's target. we have been in the past, are currently, and may in the future be involved in patent litigation. for example, we are currently parties to patent infringement proceedings relating to our european patent no. 1,360,287, which concerns genetically altered mice capable of producing chimeric antibodies that are part human and part mouse, as described in part i, item 3. "legal proceedings." we are aware of patents and pending applications owned by others that respectively claim antibodies to il-6r and pcsk9 and methods of treating rheumatoid arthritis and hypercholesterolemia with such antibodies. we are developing sarilumab, an antibody to il-6r, for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, and alirocumab, a pcsk9 antibody, for ldl cholesterol reduction. although we do not believe that sarilumab or alirocumab infringes any valid claim in these patents or patent applications, these other parties could initiate a lawsuit for patent infringement and assert their patents are valid and cover sarilumab or alirocumab, as applicable. we are also aware of a u.s. patent jointly owned by genentech and city of hope relating to the production of recombinant antibodies in host cells. we currently produce our antibody product candidates using recombinant antibodies from host cells and 26 table of contents may choose to produce additional antibody product candidates in this manner. neither arcalyst, zaltrap, nor eylea are recombinant antibodies. if any of our antibody product candidates are produced in a manner subject to valid claims in the genentech patent, then we may need to obtain a license from genentech, should one be available. genentech has licensed this patent to several different companies under confidential license agreements. if we desire a license for any of our antibody product candidates and are unable to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms or at all, we may be restricted in our ability to make recombinant antibodies in, or to import them into, the united states. further, we are aware of a number of patent applications of others that, if granted with claims as currently drafted, may cover our current or planned activities. it could be determined that our products and/or actions in manufacturing or selling our product candidates infringe such patents. patent holders could assert claims against us for damages and seek to prevent us from manufacturing, selling, or developing our drug candidates, and a court may find that we are infringing validly issued patents of others. in the event that the manufacture, use, or sale of any of our drug candidates, or our other late-stage product candidates, infringes on the patents or violates other proprietary rights of others, we may be prevented from pursuing product development, manufacturing, and commercialization of those drugs and may be required to pay costly damages. in addition, in the event that we assert our patent rights against other parties that we believe are infringing our patent rights, such parties may challenge the validity of our patents and we may become the target of litigation, which may result in an outcome that is unfavorable to us. any of these adverse developments may materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. in any event, legal disputes are likely to be costly and time consuming to defend. we seek to obtain licenses to patents when, in our judgment, such licenses are needed or advisable. if any licenses are required, we may not be able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. the failure to obtain any such license could prevent us from developing or commercializing any one or more of our product candidates, which could severely harm our business. loss or limitation of patent rights, and new regulatory pathways for biosimilar competition, could reduce the duration of market exclusivity for our products. in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, the majority of an innovative product's commercial value is usually realized during the period in which it has market exclusivity. in the united states and some other countries, when market exclusivity expires and generic versions of a product are approved and marketed, there usually are very substantial and rapid declines in the product's sales. if our late-stage product candidates or other clinical candidates are approved for marketing in the united states or elsewhere, market exclusivity for those products will generally be based upon patent rights and/or certain regulatory forms of exclusivity. as described above under " if we cannot protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets or our patents are insufficient to protect our proprietary rights, our business and competitive position will be harmed, " the scope and enforceability of our patent rights may vary from country to country. the failure to obtain patent and other intellectual property rights, or limitations on the use, or the loss, of such rights could materially harm us. absent patent protection or regulatory exclusivity for our products, it is possible, both in the united states and elsewhere, that generic and/or biosimilar versions of those products may be approved and marketed, which would likely result in substantial and rapid reductions in revenues from sales of those products. under the federal patient protection and affordable care act, or ppaca, enacted in 2010, there is now a new, abbreviated path in the united states for regulatory approval of biosimilar versions of biological products. the ppaca provides a regulatory mechanism that allows for fda approval of biologic drugs that are similar to (but not generic copies of) innovative drugs on the basis of less extensive data than is required by a full bla. under this new regulation, an application for approval of a biosimilar may be filed four years after approval of the innovator product. however, qualified innovative biological products will receive 12 years of regulatory exclusivity, meaning that the fda may not approve a biosimilar version until 12 years after the innovative biological product was first approved by the fda. however, the term of regulatory exclusivity may not remain at 12 years in the united states and could be shortened. the increased likelihood of biosimilar competition has increased the risk of loss of innovators' market exclusivity. due to this risk, and uncertainties regarding patent protection, if our late-stage product candidates or other clinical candidates are approved for marketing, it is not possible to predict the length of market exclusivity for a particular product with certainty based solely on the expiration of the relevant patent(s) or the current forms of regulatory exclusivity. it is also not possible to predict changes in united states regulatory law that might reduce biological product regulatory exclusivity. the loss of market exclusivity for a product would likely materially and negatively affect revenues from product sales of that product and thus our financial results and condition. 27 table of contents risks related to manufacturing and supply we rely on limited internal and contracted manufacturing and supply chain capacity, which could result in our being unable to continue to successfully commercialize eylea, to commercialize our other product candidates or other indications for our marketed products if they receive regulatory approval, and to advance our clinical pipeline. our manufacturing facility would be inadequate to produce the active pharmaceutical ingredients of (a) eylea, zaltrap, and arcalyst, and (b) our antibody product candidates in sufficient clinical quantities if our clinical pipeline advances as planned. in addition to expanding our internal capacity, we intend to rely on our corporate collaborators, as well as contract manufacturers, to produce commercial quantities of drug material needed for commercialization of our products to the extent such quantities are not manufactured at our own facility. as we increase our production in anticipation of potential regulatory approval for our late-stage antibody product candidates, our current manufacturing capacity may not be sufficient, and we may depend on our collaborators or contract manufacturers, to produce adequate quantities of drug material for both commercial and clinical purposes. we rely entirely on other parties and our collaborators for filling and finishing services. generally, in order for other parties to perform any step in the manufacturing and supply chain, we must transfer technology to the other party, which can be time consuming and may not be successfully accomplished without considerable cost and expense, or at all. we will have to depend on these other parties to perform effectively on a timely basis and to comply with regulatory requirements. if for any reason they are unable to do so, and as a result we are unable to directly or through other parties manufacture and supply sufficient commercial and clinical quantities of our products on acceptable terms, or if we should encounter delays or other difficulties in our relationships with our corporate collaborators, contract manufacturers, or other parties involved in our supply chain which adversely affect the timely manufacture and supply of our products or product candidates, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed. expanding our manufacturing capacity will be costly and we may be unsuccessful in doing so in a timely manner, which could delay or prevent the launch and successful commercialization of our marketed products and late-stage product candidates or other indications for our marketed products if they are approved for marketing and could jeopardize our current and future clinical development programs. we have commenced construction of additional manufacturing space at our rensselaer, new york site to increase our manufacturing capacity. in addition, we reached preliminary agreement to acquire a 400,000 square foot facility in limerick, ireland, subject to entering into definitive agreements as well as securing permits from the local government in limerick, to expand our manufacturing capacity to support our global supply chain. in the future, we may lease, operate, purchase, or construct additional facilities to conduct expanded manufacturing activities. expanding our manufacturing capacity to supply commercial quantities of the active pharmaceutical ingredients for our marketed products and our late-stage product candidates if they are approved for marketing, and to supply clinical drug material to support the continued growth of our clinical programs, will require substantial additional expenditures and various regulatory approvals and permits. in addition, our contemplated acquisition of the limerick, ireland facility remains subject to entering into definitive agreements as well as securing permits from the local government, and there is no guarantee that a final agreement will be reached on terms favorable to us or that we will be able to obtain the required permits in the contemplated timeframe, or at all. further, we will need to hire and train significant numbers of employees and managerial personnel to staff our expanding manufacturing and supply chain operations. start-up costs can be large, and scale-up entails significant risks related to process development and manufacturing yields. in addition, we may face difficulties or delays in developing or acquiring the necessary production equipment and technology to manufacture sufficient quantities of our product candidates at reasonable costs and in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. the fda and analogous foreign regulatory authorities must determine that our existing and any expanded manufacturing facilities comply, or continue to comply, with cgmp requirements for both clinical and commercial production and license them, or continue to license them, accordingly, and such facilities must also comply with applicable environmental, safety, and other governmental permitting requirements. we may not successfully expand or establish sufficient manufacturing capabilities or manufacture our products economically or in compliance with cgmps and other regulatory requirements, and we and our collaborators may not be able to build or procure additional capacity in the required timeframe to meet commercial demand for our late-stage product candidates if they receive regulatory approval, and to continue to meet the requirements of our clinical programs. this would interfere with our efforts to successfully commercialize eylea, zaltrap, and arcalyst and could also delay or require us to discontinue one or more of our clinical development programs. as a result, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition could be materially harmed. 28 table of contents our ability to manufacture our products may be impaired if any of our manufacturing activities, or the activities of third parties involved in our manufacture and supply chain, are found to infringe patents of others. our ability to continue to manufacture eylea, zaltrap, and arcalyst in our rensselaer, new york facilities and, in the future, our ability to manufacture our marketed products at additional facilities, or to utilize third parties to produce our products, to supply raw materials or other products, or to perform fill/finish services or other steps in our manufacture and supply chain, depends on our and their ability to operate without infringing the patents or other intellectual property rights of others. other parties may allege that our manufacturing activities, or the activities of third parties involved in our manufacture and supply chain, infringe patents or other intellectual property rights. a judicial decision in favor of one or more parties making such allegations could preclude the manufacture of our products to which those intellectual property rights apply, which could materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. if sales of eylea and zaltrap do not meet the levels currently expected, or if the launch of new indications for eylea or of any of our product candidates is delayed or unsuccessful, we may face costs related to excess inventory or unused capacity at our manufacturing facilities and at the facilities of third parties. we have large-scale manufacturing operations in rensselaer, new york. we use our facilities to produce bulk product of eylea for the treatment of wet amd and macular edema following crvo, bulk product of zaltrap for the treatment of patients with mcrc that is resistant to or has progressed following an oxaliplatin-containing regimen, bulk product of arcalyst for the treatment of caps, and clinical and preclinical candidates for ourselves and our collaborations. we also plan to use such facilities to produce bulk product for commercial supply of new indications of our marketed products and new product candidates if they are approved for marketing. if our clinical candidates are discontinued or their clinical development is delayed, if the launch of new indications for our marketed products or new product candidates is delayed or does not occur, or if such products are launched and the launch is unsuccessful or the product is subsequently recalled or marketing approval is rescinded, we may have to absorb one hundred percent of related overhead costs and inefficiencies, as well as similar costs of third-party contract manufacturers performing services for us. in addition, if we experience excess inventory, it may be necessary to write down or even write off such excess inventory, which could adversely affect our operating results. third-party service or supply failures, or other failures, business interruptions, or natural disasters affecting our manufacturing facilities in rensselaer, new york or the facilities of any other party participating in the supply chain, would adversely affect our ability to supply our products. we currently manufacture all of our bulk drug materials at our manufacturing facilities in rensselaer, new york. we would be unable to manufacture these materials if our rensselaer facilities were to cease production due to regulatory requirements or actions, business interruptions, labor shortages or disputes, contaminations, fire, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, or other problems at the facilities. also, certain raw materials or other products necessary for the manufacture and formulation of eylea, zaltrap, arcalyst, and our product candidates, some of which are difficult to source, are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. in addition, we rely on certain third parties to perform filling, finishing, distribution, laboratory testing, and other services related to the manufacture of eylea, zaltrap, arcalyst, and our product candidates, and to supply various raw materials and other products. we would be unable to obtain these raw materials, other products, or services for an indeterminate period of time if any of these third parties were to cease or interrupt production or otherwise fail to supply these materials, products, or services to us for any reason, including due to regulatory requirements or actions (including recalls), adverse financial developments at or affecting the supplier, failure by the supplier to comply with cgmps, contamination, business interruptions, or labor shortages or disputes. this, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our ability to manufacture or supply eylea, zaltrap, arcalyst, and our product candidates, which could materially and adversely affect our business and future prospects. certain of the raw materials required in the manufacture and the formulation of our product candidates may be derived from biological sources, including mammalian tissues, bovine serum, and human serum albumin. there are certain european regulatory restrictions on using these biological source materials. if we are required to substitute for these sources to comply with european regulatory requirements, our clinical development activities may be delayed or interrupted. if we fail to meet the stringent requirements of governmental regulation in the manufacture of drug products or product candidates, we could incur substantial remedial costs, delays in the development or approval of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products and/or in their commercial launch if they obtain regulatory approval, and a reduction in sales. we and our third-party providers are required to maintain compliance with cgmps, and are subject to inspections by the fda or comparable agencies in other jurisdictions to confirm such compliance. changes of suppliers or modifications of methods of manufacturing may require amending our application(s) to the fda or such comparable foreign agencies and acceptance of the change by the fda or such comparable foreign agencies prior to release of product(s). because we produce multiple products and 29 table of contents product candidates at our facility in rensselaer, new york, including eylea, zaltrap, and arcalyst, there are increased risks associated with cgmp compliance. our inability, or the inability of our third-party fill/finish or other service providers, to demonstrate ongoing cgmp compliance could require us to engage in lengthy and expensive remediation efforts, withdraw or recall product, halt or interrupt clinical trials, and/or interrupt commercial supply of any marketed products, and could also delay or prevent our obtaining regulatory approval for our late-stage product candidates or new indications for our marketed products. any delay, interruption, or other issue that arises in the manufacture, fill/finish, packaging, or storage of any drug product or product candidate as a result of a failure of our facilities or the facilities or operations of third parties to pass any regulatory agency inspection or maintain cgmp compliance could significantly impair our ability to develop, obtain approval for, and successfully commercialize our products, which would substantially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. any finding of non-compliance could also increase our costs, cause us to delay the development of our product candidates, result in delay in our obtaining, or our not obtaining, regulatory approval of product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, and cause us to lose revenue from any marketed products, which could be seriously detrimental to our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. risks related to commercialization of products we may be unsuccessful in continuing the commercialization of our marketed products or in commercializing our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if approved, which would materially and adversely affect our business, profitability, and future prospects. even if clinical trials demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of any of our product candidates for a specific disease and the necessary regulatory approvals are obtained, the commercial success of any of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products will depend upon, among other things, their acceptance by patients, the medical community, and third-party payers and on our and our collaborators' ability to successfully manufacture, market and distribute those products in substantial commercial quantities or to establish and manage the required infrastructure to do so, including large-scale information technology systems and a large-scale distribution network. establishing and maintaining sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities are expensive and time-consuming. even if we obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates or new indications, if they are not successfully commercialized, we will not be able to recover the significant investment we have made in developing such products and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be severely harmed. our product candidates are delivered either by intravenous infusion or by intravitreal or subcutaneous injections, which are generally less well received by patients than tablet or capsule delivery and this could adversely affect the commercial success of those products if they receive marketing approval. currently, we have three marketed products, eylea, zaltrap, and arcalyst. while we have established our own sales and marketing organization for eylea in the united states for the treatment of wet amd and macular edema following crvo, we have limited commercialization experience and we have no sales, marketing, commercial, or distribution capabilities outside the united states. in addition, eylea faces intense competition from lucentis and from off-label use of repackaged avastin , both of which have been on the market for a number of years and, potentially, from new competitive products currently in clinical development. we expect that the continued commercial success of eylea will depend on many factors, including the following: effectiveness of the commercial strategy in and outside the united states for the marketing of eylea, including pricing strategy and the continued effectiveness of efforts to obtain, and the timing of obtaining, adequate third-party reimbursements; maintaining and successfully monitoring commercial manufacturing arrangements for eylea with third parties who perform fill/finish or other steps in the manufacture of eylea to ensure that they meet our standards and those of regulatory authorities, including the fda, which extensively regulate and monitor pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities; our ability to meet the demand for commercial supplies of eylea; our ability to effectively communicate to the marketplace the benefits of the dosing regimen of eylea as compared to the dosing regimen of lucentis , and the willingness of retinal specialists and patients to switch from lucentis or off-label use of avastin to eylea; the ability of patients, retinal specialists, and other providers to obtain and maintain sufficient coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid in the united states and other government and private payers in the united states and foreign jurisdictions; our ability to maintain sales of eylea in the face of competitive products, including those currently in clinical development; and the effect of new health care legislation currently being implemented in the united states. under the terms of our license and collaboration agreement with bayer healthcare, we rely on bayer healthcare for sales, marketing, and distribution of eylea in countries outside the united states. if we and bayer healthcare are unsuccessful in 30 table of contents continuing to commercialize eylea, our ability to sustain profitability would be materially impaired. in addition, if we or our collaborators are unable to successfully commercialize new product candidates or new indications for our marketed product, our future prospects would be materially impaired. our marketed products are subject to significant competition, and our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if any are approved for marketing, may face significant competition. there is substantial competition in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries from biotechnology, pharmaceutical, and chemical companies, as summarized under part i, item 1. business - competition above. many of our competitors have substantially greater research, preclinical and clinical product development and manufacturing capabilities, as well as financial, marketing, and human resources, than we do. our smaller competitors may also enhance their competitive position if they acquire or discover patentable inventions, form collaborative arrangements, or merge with large pharmaceutical companies. even if we achieve commercialization of our product candidates, our competitors have achieved, and may continue to achieve, product commercialization before our products are approved for marketing and sale. as previously noted, genentech has an approved vegf antagonist, avastin , on the market for treating certain cancers, and many different pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are working to develop competing vegf antagonists, including novartis, amgen inc., imclone llc/eli lilly, pfizer inc., astrazeneca, and glaxosmithkline. some of these molecules may offer competitive advantages over our molecule. each of pfizer, onyx (recently acquired by amgen), together with its partner bayer healthcare, and glaxosmithkline are marketing and selling oral medications that target tumor cell growth and new vasculature formation that fuels the growth of tumors. in january 2012, roche announced that a phase 3 trial of avastin (bevacizumab) had met the primary endpoint of overall survival in mcrc in patients who had previously received avastin with standard chemotherapy. the positive results of this trial in a similar patient population could impact the potential commercial opportunity for zaltrap in mcrc. it will be difficult for zaltrap to compete against avastin and the fda-approved kinase inhibitors, because doctors and patients will have significant experience using these medicines. in addition, an oral medication may be considerably less expensive for patients than a biologic medication, providing a competitive advantage to companies that market such products. the market for eye disease products is very competitive, as described in greater detail above under risks related to commercialization of eylea- the commercial success of eylea is subject to strong competition . our earlier stage clinical candidates in development are all fully human monoclonal antibodies, which were generated using our velocimmune technology. our antibody generation technologies and earlier-stage clinical candidates face competition from many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies using various technologies. we are aware of several pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies actively engaged in the research and development of antibody products against targets that are also the targets of our early-stage product candidates. for example, pfizer (in partnership with eli lilly), johnson &amp; johnson, and abbvie are developing antibody product candidates against ngf. genentech/roche is marketing an antibody against il-6r (tocilizumab) for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, and several other companies, including johnson &amp; johnson (in partnership with glaxosmithkline), bristol-myers squibb (in partnership with alder biopharmaceuticals), ablynx (in partnership with abbvie), and pfizer have antibodies against il-6 or il-6r in clinical development. several companies, including amgen, pfizer, genentech, bristol-myers squibb, and eli lilly, have development programs for antibodies against pcsk9. amgen's pcsk9 program appears to be the most advanced of the competitors, having already announced positive results from multiple phase 3 trials, and may obtain marketing approval in one or more countries before our pcsk9 antibody is approved. alnylam, in partnership with the medicines company, has a clinical program underway with an rnai molecule against pcsk9. in addition, there are therapeutic products targeting pcsk9 operating through other mechanisms of action currently on the market or in development, including oral products and a biosimilar product in europe. further, amgen, genentech, and astrazeneca have development programs underway for antibodies against ang2 for indications in oncology. celgene (in partnership with oncomed pharmaceuticals, inc.) and astrazeneca have antibodies that target dll4 in clinical development. for muscle-wasting conditions, both pfizer and eli lilly have anti-gdf8 monoclonal antibodies in development, and novartis has a competing antibody targeting actriib. if any of these or other competitors announces a successful clinical study involving a product that may be competitive with one of our product candidates or the grant of marketing approval by a regulatory agency for a competitive product, such developments may have an adverse effect on our business or future prospects. in addition, the first product to reach the market in a therapeutic area is often at a significant competitive advantage relative to later entrants to the market. accordingly, the relative speed with which we, or our collaborators, can develop our products candidates, complete the clinical trials and approval processes, and, if such product candidates are approved for marketing and sale, supply commercial quantities to the market is expected to continue to be an important competitive factor. due to the uncertainties associated with developing biopharmaceutical products, we may not be the first to obtain marketing approval for a product against any particular target, which may have a material adverse effect on our business or future prospects. 31 table of contents the successful commercialization of our marketed products, as well as our late-stage product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if approved, will depend on obtaining coverage and reimbursement for use of these products from third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid in the united states, and these payers may not agree to cover or adequately reimburse for use of our products or may do so at levels that make our products uncompetitive and/or unprofitable, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. our future revenues and profitability will be adversely affected in a material manner if united states and foreign governmental payers, private third-party insurers and payers, and other third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid, do not defray or reimburse the cost of our products to the patients. if these entities do not provide coverage and reimbursement with respect to our products or provide an insufficient level of coverage and reimbursement, our products may be too costly for many patients to afford them, and physicians may not prescribe them. many third-party payers cover only selected drugs, making drugs that are not preferred by such payers more expensive for patients, and require prior authorization or failure on another type of treatment before covering a particular drug. in particular, payers may impose these obstacles to coverage on higher-priced drugs, as our product candidates are likely to be. government and other third-party payers are challenging the prices charged for healthcare products and increasingly limiting, and attempting to limit, both coverage and level of reimbursement for prescription drugs. in march 2010, the ppaca and a related reconciliation bill were enacted in the united states. this legislation imposes cost containment measures that are likely to adversely affect the amount of reimbursement for our future products. the full effects of this legislation are unknown at this time and will not be known until regulations and guidance are issued by cms and other federal and state agencies. further, in september 2011 the office of inspector general (oig) of the department of health and human services issued a report entitled review of medicare part b avastin and lucentis treatments for age-related macular degeneration in which the oig details possible savings to the medicare program by using off-label avastin rather than lucentis for the treatment of wet amd. some states are also considering legislation that would control the prices of drugs, and state medicaid programs are increasingly requesting manufacturers to pay supplemental rebates and requiring prior authorization by the state program for use of any drug for which supplemental rebates are not being paid. it is likely that federal and state legislatures and health agencies will continue to focus on additional health care reform in the future that will impose additional constraints on prices and reimbursements for our products. since eylea for the treatment of wet amd, macular edema following crvo, and other eye diseases, and zaltrap for the treatment of patients with mcrc that is resistant to or has progressed following an oxaliplatin-containing regimen, will likely continue to be too expensive for most patients to afford without health insurance coverage, if these products are unable to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement by third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid in the united states, our ability to successfully commercialize these products would be materially adversely impacted. third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid in the united states, may not cover and/or reimburse for these products at levels required for us to successfully commercialize these products. any limitation imposed by third-party payers on the use of our products if they are approved for marketing, or any action or decision by cms or analogous foreign agencies or authorities which for any reason denies coverage or reimbursement for our products or provides coverage or reimbursement at levels that harm our products' competitiveness or leads to lower prices for those products, will have a material negative effect on our ability to sustain profitability. in certain foreign countries, pricing, coverage, and level of reimbursement of prescription drugs are subject to governmental control, and we and our collaborators may be unable to obtain coverage, pricing, and/or reimbursement on terms that are favorable to us or necessary for us or our collaborators to successfully commercialize our products in those countries. in some foreign countries, the proposed pricing for a drug must be approved before it may be lawfully marketed. the requirements governing drug pricing vary widely from country to country. for example, the eu provides options for its member states to restrict the range of medicinal products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices of medicinal products for human use. a member state may approve a specific price for the medicinal product or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the medicinal product on the market. our results of operations may suffer if we or our collaborators are unable to market our products in foreign countries or if coverage and reimbursement for our products in foreign countries is limited or delayed. 32 table of contents we are dependent upon a small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of or significant reduction in sales to these customers would adversely affect our results of operations. we sell eylea in the united states to three distributors and several specialty pharmacies. under this distribution model, the distributors and specialty pharmacies generally take physical delivery of product and generally sell the product directly to healthcare providers. for the years ended december 31, 2013 , 2012, and 2011, we recorded 76% , 78% , and 42%, respectively, of our total gross product revenue from sales to a single distributor, besse medical, a subsidiary of amerisourcebergen corporation. we expect this significant customer concentration to continue for the foreseeable future. our ability to generate and grow sales of eylea will depend, in part, on the extent to which our distributors and specialty pharmacies are able to provide adequate distribution of eylea to healthcare providers. although we believe we can find additional distributors, if necessary, our revenue during any period of disruption could suffer and we might incur additional costs. in addition, these customers are responsible for a significant portion of our net trade accounts receivable balances. the loss of any large customer, a significant reduction in sales we make to them, any cancellation of orders they have made with us, or any failure to pay for the products we have shipped to them could adversely affect our results of operations. regulatory and litigation risks if the testing or use of our products harms people, or is perceived to harm them even when such harm is unrelated to our products, we could be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims. the testing, manufacturing, marketing, and sale of drugs for use in people expose us to product liability risk. any informed consent or waivers obtained from people who enroll in our clinical trials may not protect us from liability or the cost of litigation. we may also be subject to claims by patients who use our approved products, or our product candidates if those product candidates receive regulatory approval and become commercially available, that they have been injured by a side effect associated with the drug. even in a circumstance in which we do not believe that an adverse event is related to our products or product candidates, the related investigation may be time consuming or inconclusive and may have a negative impact on our reputation or business. we may face product liability claims and be found responsible even if injury arises from the acts or omissions of third parties who provide fill/finish or other services. our product liability insurance may not cover all potential liabilities or may not completely cover any liability arising from any such litigation. moreover, in the future we may not have access to liability insurance or be able to maintain our insurance on acceptable terms. if we market and sell approved products in a way that violates federal or state healthcare laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. in addition to fda and related regulatory requirements, we are subject to health care fraud and abuse laws, such as the federal false claims act, the anti-kickback provisions of the federal social security act, and other state and federal laws and regulations. federal and state anti-kickback laws prohibit, among other things, payments or other remuneration to induce or reward someone to purchase, prescribe, endorse, or recommend a product that is reimbursed under federal or state healthcare programs. if we provide payments or other remuneration to a healthcare professional to induce the prescribing of our products, we could face liability under state and federal anti-kickback laws. federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, such as allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; reporting to pricing services inflated average wholesale prices that were then used by federal programs to set reimbursement rates; engaging in promotion for uses that the fda has not approved, known as off-label uses, that caused claims to be submitted to medicaid for non-covered off-label uses, and submitting inflated best price information to the medicaid rebate program. the majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payer. sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer's products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines, and imprisonment. even if it is determined that we have not violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which would harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the safe harbors, it is possible that some of our business activities could be challenged under one or more of such laws. 33 table of contents in recent years, several states and localities, including california, the district of columbia, massachusetts, minnesota, nevada, new mexico, vermont, and west virginia, have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, file periodic reports with the state or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, and other activities. similar requirements are being considered in other states. in addition, as part of the ppaca, the federal government recently enacted the physician payment sunshine act and related regulations. the physician payment sunshine act will require pharmaceutical manufacturers to report annually to the secretary of the u.s. department of health and human services payments or other transfers of value made to physicians or teaching hospitals. in february 2013, regulations were released that contain detailed guidance regarding the information that must be collected and reported. we started to be required to collect information regarding such payments in august 2013 and will be required to begin reporting such information in march 2014. over the next several years, we will need to dedicate significant resources to enhance our systems and processes in order to comply with these regulations. the ppaca also includes various provisions designed to strengthen significantly fraud and abuse enforcement, such as increased funding for enforcement efforts and the lowering of the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback statute and criminal health care fraud statute such that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. many of these requirements and standards are new and uncertain, and the penalties for failure to comply with these requirements may be unclear. if we are found not to be in full compliance with these laws, we could face enforcement actions, fines, and other penalties, and could receive adverse publicity, which would harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. risks from the improper conduct of employees, agents, contractors, or collaborators could adversely affect our reputation and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. we cannot ensure that our compliance controls, policies, and procedures will in every instance protect us from acts committed by our employees, agents, contractors, or collaborators that would violate the laws or regulations of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including, without limitation, healthcare, employment, foreign corrupt practices, environmental, competition, and patient privacy and other privacy laws and regulations. such improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations, and monetary and injunctive penalties, and could adversely impact our ability to conduct business, operating results, and reputation. in particular, our business activities outside of the united states are subject to the foreign corrupt practices act, or fcpa, and similar anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws, regulations or rules of other countries in which we operate, including the u.k. bribery act. the fcpa generally prohibits the offering, promising, giving, or authorizing others to give anything of value, either directly or indirectly, to a non-u.s. government official in order to influence official action, or otherwise obtain or retain business. the fcpa also requires public companies to make and keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect the transactions of the corporation and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls. our business is heavily regulated and therefore involves significant interaction with public officials, including officials of non-u.s. governments. additionally, in many other countries, the health care providers who prescribe pharmaceuticals are employed by their government, and the purchasers of pharmaceuticals are government entities; therefore, our dealings with these prescribers and purchasers are subject to regulation under the fcpa. recently the securities and exchange commission, or sec, and department of justice have increased their fcpa enforcement activities with respect to pharmaceutical companies. there is no certainty that all of our employees, agents, contractors, or collaborators, or those of our affiliates, will comply with all applicable laws and regulations, particularly given the high level of complexity of these laws. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, requirements to obtain export licenses, cessation of business activities in sanctioned countries, implementation of compliance programs, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business. any such violations could include prohibitions on our ability to offer our products in one or more countries and could materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. our operations may involve hazardous materials and are subject to environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations. compliance with these laws and regulations is costly, and we may incur substantial liability arising from our activities involving the use of hazardous materials. as a biopharmaceutical company with significant research and development and manufacturing operations, we are subject to extensive environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations, including those governing the use of hazardous materials. our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of chemicals, infectious agents (such as viruses, bacteria, and fungi), radioactive compounds, and other hazardous materials. the cost of compliance with environmental, health, and safety regulations is substantial. if an accident involving these materials or an environmental discharge were to occur, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, or face regulatory actions, which could exceed our resources or insurance coverage. 34 table of contents our business is subject to increasingly complex corporate governance, public disclosure, and accounting requirements and regulations that could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. we are subject to changing rules and regulations of various federal and state governmental authorities as well as the stock exchange on which our common stock is listed. these entities, including the sec and the nasdaq stock market llc, have issued a significant number of new and increasingly complex requirements and regulations over the course of the last several years and continue to develop additional requirements and regulations in response to laws enacted by congress, including the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and, most recently, the dodd-frank wall street reform and protection act, or the dodd-frank act. there are significant corporate governance and executive compensation-related provisions in the dodd-frank act that expressly authorized or required the sec to adopt additional rules in these areas, a number of which have yet to be fully implemented. our efforts to comply with these requirements and regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, an increase in expenses and a diversion of management's time from other business activities. changes in laws and regulations affecting the healthcare industry could adversely affect our business. all aspects of our business, including research and development, manufacturing, marketing, pricing, sales, litigation, and intellectual property rights, are subject to extensive legislation and regulation. changes in applicable federal and state laws and agency regulations could have a materially negative impact on our business. these include: changes in the fda and foreign regulatory processes for new therapeutics that may delay or prevent the approval of any of our current or future product candidates; new laws, regulations, or judicial decisions related to healthcare availability or the payment for healthcare products and services, including prescription drugs, that would make it more difficult for us to market and sell products once they are approved by the fda or foreign regulatory agencies; changes in fda and foreign regulations that may require additional safety monitoring prior to or after the introduction of new products to market, which could materially increase our costs of doing business; and changes in fda and foreign cgmps that may make it more difficult and costly for us to maintain regulatory compliance and/or manufacture our marketed product and product candidates in accordance with cgmps. as described above, the ppaca and potential regulations thereunder easing the entry of competing follow-on biologics into the marketplace, other new legislation or implementation of existing statutory provisions on importation of lower-cost competing drugs from other jurisdictions, and legislation on comparative effectiveness research are examples of previously enacted and possible future changes in laws that could adversely affect our business. risks associated with our operations outside of the united states could adversely affect our business. we have operations and conduct business outside the united states and we plan to expand these activities. consequently, we are, and will continue to be, subject to risks related to operating in foreign countries, which include: unfamiliar foreign laws or regulatory requirements or unexpected changes to those laws or requirements; other laws and regulatory requirements to which our business activities abroad are subject, such as the fcpa and the u.k. bribery act (discussed in greater detail above under " risks from the improper conduct of employees, agents, contractors, or collaborators could adversely affect our reputation and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition "); changes in the political or economic condition of a specific country or region; fluctuations in the value of foreign currency versus the u.s. dollar and the cost of currency exchange; our ability to deploy overseas funds in an efficient manner; adverse tax consequences, including those that might result from the failure to operate in conformity with the requirements for certain tax treatment, tax incentives, or grants; tariffs, trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements, trade embargoes, and other trade barriers; difficulties in attracting and retaining qualified personnel; and cultural differences in the conduct of business. 35 table of contents we face potential liability related to the privacy of health information we obtain from research institutions and our collaborators. most health care providers, including research institutions from which we or our collaborators obtain patient information, are subject to privacy and security regulations promulgated under hipaa, as amended by the health information technology for economic and clinical health act. for example, as part of our human genetics initiative, our wholly-owned subsidiary, regeneron genetics center llc, is collaborating with the geisinger health system, which is subject to such regulations, and may enter into collaboration arrangements with additional institutions in the future. our clinical research efforts are not directly regulated by hipaa. however, conduct by a person that may not be prosecuted directly under hipaa's criminal provisions could potentially be prosecuted under aiding-and-abetting or conspiracy laws. consequently, depending on the facts and circumstances, we could face substantial criminal penalties if we knowingly receive individually identifiable health information from a health care provider or research institution that has not satisfied hipaa's disclosure standards. in addition, international data protection laws, including the eu data protection directive and member state implementing legislation, may apply to some or all of the clinical data obtained outside of the u.s. furthermore, certain privacy laws and genetic testing laws may apply directly to our operations and/or those of our collaborators and may impose restrictions on our use and dissemination of individuals' health information. moreover, patients about whom we or our collaborators obtain information, as well as the providers who share this information with us, may have contractual rights that limit our ability to use and disclose the information. claims that we have violated individuals' privacy rights or breached our contractual obligations, even if we are not found liable, could be expensive and time-consuming to defend and could result in adverse publicity that could harm our business. if we or any collaborators fail to comply with applicable federal, state, or local regulatory requirements, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions that could affect our or any collaborators' ability to commercialize our products and could harm or prevent sales of any affected products that we are able to commercialize, or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing and marketing our products. any threatened or actual government enforcement action could also generate adverse publicity and require that we devote substantial resources that could otherwise be used in other aspects of our business. risks related to our reliance on third parties if our antibody collaboration with sanofi is terminated, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition, and our ability to discover, develop, manufacture, and commercialize our pipeline of product candidates in the time expected, or at all, would be materially harmed. we rely heavily on funding from sanofi to support our target discovery and antibody research and development programs. sanofi has committed to pay up to $160 million per year, or a total of $1.28 billion, between 2010 and 2017 to fund our efforts to identify and validate drug discovery targets and pre-clinically develop fully human monoclonal antibodies against such targets. sanofi also initially funds almost all of the development expenses incurred by both companies in connection with the clinical development of antibodies that sanofi elects to co-develop with us. we rely on sanofi to fund these activities. in addition, with respect to those antibodies that sanofi elects to co-develop with us, such as sarilumab, alirocumab, dupilumab, enoticumab, nesvacumab, regn1033, and regn2009, we rely on sanofi to lead much of the clinical development efforts and assist with obtaining regulatory approval, particularly outside the united states. we also rely on sanofi to lead the commercialization efforts to support all of the antibody products that are co-developed by sanofi and us if they receive regulatory approval. if sanofi does not elect to co-develop the antibodies that we discover or opts out of their development, unless we enter into a partnership agreement with another party, we would be required to fund and oversee on our own the clinical trials, any regulatory responsibilities, and the ensuing commercialization efforts to support those antibody products. for example, sanofi has elected not to continue co-development of fasinumab, and decided not to opt in to the regn1154, regn 1193, regn1500, and other programs. if sanofi terminates the antibody collaboration or fails to comply with its payment obligations thereunder, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be materially harmed. we would be required to either expend substantially more resources than we have anticipated to support our research and development efforts, which could require us to seek additional funding that might not be available on favorable terms or at all, or materially cut back on such activities. even though none of the antibodies from this collaboration may ever be successfully developed and commercialized, if sanofi does not perform its obligations with respect to antibodies that it elects to co-develop, our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize these antibody product candidates will be significantly adversely affected. 36 table of contents if our collaboration with sanofi for zaltrap is terminated, or sanofi materially breaches its obligations thereunder, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition, and our ability to develop and commercialize zaltrap, would be materially harmed. we rely heavily on sanofi to lead much of the development of zaltrap and the commercialization of zaltrap. if sanofi fails to perform its obligations in a timely manner, or at all, our ability to develop and commercialize zaltrap in previously-treated mcrc will be significantly adversely affected. sanofi has the right to terminate its collaboration agreement with us at any time upon twelve months' advance notice. if sanofi were to terminate its collaboration agreement with us, we would not have the resources or skills to replace those of our collaborator, which we would have to develop or outsource at substantial additional costs to us. in particular, we have limited commercial capabilities outside the united states and would have to develop or outsource these capabilities. termination of the sanofi collaboration agreement for zaltrap would create substantial new and additional risks to the successful development and commercialization of zaltrap. if our collaboration with bayer healthcare for eylea is terminated, or bayer healthcare materially breaches its obligations thereunder, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition, and our ability to continue to develop eylea and commercialize eylea outside the united states in the time expected, or at all, would be materially harmed. we rely heavily on bayer healthcare to assist with the development, and the commercialization outside the united states, of eylea. under our agreement with them, bayer healthcare is required to fund approximately half of the development expenses incurred by both companies in connection with the global eylea development program. as the eylea program continues, we will continue to rely on bayer healthcare to assist with funding the eylea development program, continue to lead the development of eylea outside the united states, obtain regulatory approval outside the united states, and provide all sales, marketing, and commercial support for the product outside the united states. in particular, bayer healthcare has responsibility for selling eylea outside the united states using its sales force and, in japan, in cooperation with santen pharmaceuticals co. ltd. pursuant to a co-promotion and distribution agreement with bayer healthcare's japanese affiliate. eylea is currently available in the united states, eu, japan, and certain other countries outside of the united states for treatment of wet amd and macular edema following crvo. we cannot assure you that additional regulatory approvals will be received for eylea outside the united states or that eylea will be successfully commercialized. if bayer healthcare and, in japan, santen do not perform their obligations in a timely manner, or at all, our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize eylea outside the united states will be significantly adversely affected. bayer healthcare has the right to terminate its collaboration agreement with us at any time upon six or twelve months' advance notice, depending on the circumstances giving rise to termination. if bayer healthcare were to terminate its collaboration agreement with us, we would not have the resources or skills to replace those of our partner, which could require us to seek additional funding or another collaboration that might not be available on favorable terms or at all, and could cause significant delays in the development and/or commercialization of eylea outside the united states and result in substantial additional costs to us. we have limited commercial capabilities outside the united states and would have to develop or outsource these capabilities. termination of the bayer healthcare collaboration agreement would create substantial new and additional risks to the successful development and commercialization of eylea, particularly outside the united states. our collaborators and service providers may fail to perform adequately in their efforts to support the development, manufacture, and commercialization of our drug candidates and current and future products. we depend upon third-party collaborators, including sanofi, bayer healthcare, and service providers such as cros, outside testing laboratories, clinical investigator sites, and third-party manufacturers, fill/finish, and product packagers and labelers, to assist us in the manufacture and preclinical and clinical development of our product candidates. we also depend, or will depend, on some of these third parties in connection with the commercialization of eylea for the treatment of wet amd and macular edema following crvo, zaltrap for the treatment of patients with mcrc, arcalyst for the treatment of caps, and our late-stage product candidates and new indications for our marketed products if they are approved for marketing. if any of our existing collaborators or service providers breaches or terminates its agreement with us or does not perform its development or manufacturing services under an agreement in a timely manner or in compliance with applicable gmps, glps, or gcp standards, we could experience additional costs, delays, and difficulties in the manufacture or development of, or in obtaining approval by regulatory authorities for, or successfully commercializing our product candidates. we rely on third-party service providers to support the distribution of eylea in the united states and for many other related activities in connection with the commercialization of this marketed product. despite our arrangements with them, these third parties may not perform adequately. if these service providers do not perform their services adequately, our sales of eylea will suffer. 37 table of contents risk related to employees we are dependent on our key personnel and if we cannot recruit and retain leaders in our research, development, manufacturing, and commercial organizations, our business will be harmed. we are highly dependent on certain of our executive officers, other key members of our senior management team, and our chairman. if we are not able to retain any of these persons, our business may suffer. in particular, we depend on the services of p. roy vagelos, m.d., the chairman of our board of directors; leonard s. schleifer, m.d., ph.d., our president and chief executive officer; george d. yancopoulos, m.d., ph.d., our chief scientific officer and president, regeneron laboratories; and neil stahl, ph.d., our senior vice president, research and development sciences. as we continue to commercialize eylea, we are also highly dependent on the expertise and services of members of our senior management leading these commercialization efforts. there is intense competition in the biotechnology industry for qualified scientists and managerial personnel in the development, manufacture, and commercialization of drugs. we may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary to continue to advance our business and achieve our strategic objectives. information technology risks significant disruptions of information technology systems or breaches of data security could adversely affect our business. our business is increasingly dependent on critical, complex, and interdependent information technology systems, including internet-based systems, to support business processes as well as internal and external communications. the size and complexity of our computer systems make them potentially vulnerable to breakdown, malicious intrusion, and computer viruses, which may result in the impairment of production and key business processes. in addition, our systems are potentially vulnerable to data security breaches whether by employees or others which may expose sensitive data to unauthorized persons. such data security breaches could lead to the loss of trade secrets or other intellectual property, or could lead to the public exposure of personal information (including sensitive personal information) of our employees, clinical trial patients, customers, and others. such disruptions and breaches of security could result in legal proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, disruptions to our operations, and damage to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. risks related to our financial results, liquidity, and need for additional financing we have a history of operating losses and have only recently achieved profitability. if we cannot sustain profitability, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be materially harmed. beginning in the first quarter of 2012, we reported profitability; prior to that, we generally incurred net losses. if we cannot sustain profitability, we may be unable to continue our operations. in the absence of substantial revenue from the sale of products on an ongoing basis, including our sales of eylea, and our share of the profits from bayer healthcare's sales of eylea outside the united states, or from other sources, the amount, timing, nature or source of which cannot be predicted, we may incur substantial losses again as we conduct our research and development activities, commercialize our approved products, and prepare for possible commercialization of our other product candidates and new indications of our marketed products. we may need additional funding in the future, which may not be available to us, and which may force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts. we expend substantial resources for research and development, including costs associated with clinical testing of our product candidates and new indications of our marketed products, the commercialization of products, and capital expenditures. we believe our existing capital resources, together with funds generated by current and anticipated eylea net product sales and funding we are entitled to receive under our collaboration agreements, will enable us to meet our anticipated operating needs for the foreseeable future. however, one or more of our collaboration agreements may terminate, our revenues may fall short of our projections or be delayed, or our expenses may increase, any of which could result in our capital being consumed significantly faster than anticipated. in addition, our expenses may increase for many reasons, including expenses in connection with the ongoing marketing of eylea and the potential commercial launches of our late-stage product candidates and new indications for our marketed products, manufacturing scale-up, expenses related to clinical trials testing of antibody product candidates we are developing on our own (without sanofi), and expenses related to the requirement, following receipt of the first positive phase 3 trial results for a co-developed drug candidate, for us to fund 20% of phase 3 clinical trial costs for any of our antibody product candidates being developed in collaboration with sanofi. we cannot be certain that our existing capital resources and our current and anticipated revenues will be sufficient to meet our operating needs. we may require additional financing in the future and we may not be able to raise additional funds on acceptable 38 table of contents terms or at all. our ability to obtain additional financing could be adversely affected if there is a significant decline in the demand for our products or other significantly unfavorable changes in economic conditions. volatility in the financial markets could increase borrowing costs or affect our ability to raise capital. if additional financing is necessary and we are able to obtain it through the sale of equity securities, such sales will likely be dilutive to our shareholders. debt financing arrangements may require us to pledge certain assets or enter into covenants that would restrict our business activities or our ability to incur further indebtedness and may be at interest rates and contain other terms that are not favorable to our shareholders. should we require and be unable to raise sufficient funds (i) to complete the development of our product candidates, (ii) to successfully commercialize our late-stage product candidates or new indications for our marketed products if they obtain regulatory approval, and (iii) to continue our manufacturing and marketing of eylea, we may face delay, reduction, or elimination of our research and development or preclinical or clinical programs and our commercialization activities, which would significantly limit our potential to generate revenue. changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. our revenue from outside of the united states will increase as our products, whether marketed by us or our collaborators, gain marketing approval in such jurisdictions. our primary foreign currency exposure relates to movements in the japanese yen, euro, and british pound sterling. if the u.s. dollar weakens against a specific foreign currency, our revenues will increase, having a positive impact on net income, but our overall expenses will increase, having a negative impact. likewise, if the u.s. dollar strengthens against a specific foreign currency, our revenues will decrease, having a negative impact on net income, but our overall expenses will decrease, having a positive impact. therefore, significant changes in foreign exchange rates can impact our operating results and the financial condition of our company. our investments are subject to risks and other external factors that may result in losses or affect the liquidity of these investments. as of december 31, 2013 , we had $535.6 million in cash and cash equivalents and $548.3 million in marketable securities. our investments consist primarily of fixed-income securities, including investment-grade corporate bonds, direct obligations of the u.s. government and its agencies, and other debt securities guaranteed by the u.s. government. these investments are subject to external factors that may adversely affect their market value or liquidity, such as interest rate, liquidity, market, and issuer credit risks, including actual or anticipated changes in credit ratings. if our investments suffer market price declines that are other than temporary, their value could be impaired, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. risks related to our common stock our stock price is extremely volatile. there has been significant volatility in our stock price and generally in the market prices of biotechnology companies' securities. various factors and events may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. these factors include, by way of example: fluctuations in our operating results, in particular net product sales of eylea and, to a lesser degree, sales of zaltrap; if any of our product candidates or our new indications for our marketed products receive regulatory approval, net product sales of, and profits from, these product candidates and new indications; market acceptance of, and fluctuations in market share for, our marketed products, especially eylea; whether our net products sales and net profits underperform, meet, or exceed the expectations of investors or analysts; announcement of actions by the fda or foreign regulatory authorities or their respective advisory committees regarding our, or our collaborators', or our competitors', currently pending or future application(s) for regulatory approval of product candidate(s) or new indications for marketed products; announcement of submission of an application for regulatory approval of one or more of our, or our competitors', product candidates or new indications for marketed products; progress, delays, or results in clinical trials of our or our competitors' product candidates or new indications for marketed products; announcement of technological innovations or product candidates by us or competitors; claims by others that our products or technologies infringe their patents; challenges by others to our patents in the european patent office and in the u.s. patent and trademark office; public concern as to the safety or effectiveness of any of our marketed products or product candidates or new indications for our marketed products; pricing or reimbursement actions or decisions by government authorities or insurers affecting the coverage or reimbursement of any of our marketed products or competitors' products; our ability to raise additional capital as needed on favorable terms; developments in our relationships with collaborative partners or key customers; 39 table of contents developments in the biotechnology industry or in government regulation of healthcare, including those relating to compounding; large sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors, or significant shareholders; changes in tax rates, laws, or interpretation of tax laws; arrivals and departures of key personnel; and general market conditions. in addition, in the fourth quarter of 2012, we determined, based on our facts and circumstances, that it was more likely than not that a substantial portion of our deferred tax assets would be realized and, as a result, substantially all of our valuation allowance against deferred tax assets was released. therefore, beginning in 2013, we began recording income tax expense, which results in a significant reduction in our net income and net income per share and may have an impact on the market price of our common stock. the trading price of our common stock has been, and could continue to be, subject to wide fluctuations in response to these and other factors, including the sale or attempted sale of a large amount of our common stock in the market. broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the market price of our common stock. in the past, securities class action litigation has often been initiated against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. this type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources, and could also require us to make substantial payments to satisfy judgments or to settle litigation, which may harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. future sales of our common stock by our significant shareholders or us may depress our stock price and impair our ability to raise funds in new share offerings. a small number of our shareholders beneficially own a substantial amount of our common stock. as of december 31, 2013 , our four largest shareholders plus dr. schleifer, our chief executive officer, beneficially owned approximately 42.9% of our outstanding shares of common stock, assuming, in the case of our chief executive officer, the conversion of his class a stock into common stock and the exercise of all options held by him which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2013 . as of december 31, 2013 , sanofi beneficially owned 15,816,953 shares of our common stock, representing approximately 16.2% of the shares of common stock then outstanding. under our 2014 amended and restated investor agreement with sanofi, sanofi has three demand rights to require us to use all reasonable efforts to conduct a registered underwritten offering with respect to shares of our common stock held by sanofi from time to time; however, shares of our common stock held by sanofi from time to time may not be sold until the later of (i) december 20, 2020 and (ii) the expiration of our discovery and preclinical development agreement with sanofi relating to our antibody collaboration (as amended) if the agreement is extended beyond december 20, 2020. these restrictions on dispositions are subject to earlier termination upon the occurrence of certain events, such as the consummation of a change-of-control transaction involving us or a dissolution or liquidation of our company. in february 2013, we received from sanofi a notification under the hart-scott-rodino antitrust improvements act of 1976 that it intends to acquire additional common stock through open market purchases and direct purchases from shareholders. if sanofi, our other significant shareholders, or we sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or there is a perception that such sales may occur, the market price of our common stock could fall. sales of common stock by our significant shareholders, including sanofi, also might make it more difficult for us to raise funds by selling equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. our existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval and over our management. holders of class a stock, who are generally the shareholders who purchased their stock from us before our initial public offering, are entitled to ten votes per share, while holders of common stock are entitled to one vote per share. as of december 31, 2013 , holders of class a stock held 17.1% of the combined voting power of all shares of common stock and class a stock then outstanding. these shareholders, if acting together, would be in a position to significantly influence the election of our directors and the vote on certain corporate transactions that require majority or supermajority approval of the combined classes, including mergers and other business combinations. this may result in our taking corporate actions that other shareholders may not consider to be in their best interest and may affect the price of our common stock. as of december 31, 2013 : our current executive officers and directors beneficially owned 10.8% of our outstanding shares of common stock, assuming conversion of their class a stock into common stock and the exercise of all options held by such persons which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2013 , and 22.9% of the combined voting power of our outstanding shares of common stock and class a stock, assuming the exercise of all options held by such persons which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2013 ; and our four largest shareholders plus dr. schleifer, our chief executive officer, beneficially owned approximately 42.9% of our outstanding shares of common stock, assuming, in the case of our chief executive officer, the conversion of his class a stock into common stock and the exercise of all options held by him which are exercisable within 60 days of 40 table of contents december 31, 2013 . in addition, these four shareholders plus our chief executive officer held approximately 49.3% of the combined voting power of our outstanding shares of common stock and class a stock, assuming the exercise of all options held by our chief executive officer which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2013 . pursuant to the january 2014 amended and restated investor agreement with us, sanofi has agreed to vote its shares as recommended by our board of directors, except that it may elect to vote proportionally with the votes cast by all of our other shareholders with respect to certain change-of-control transactions and to vote in its sole discretion with respect to liquidation or dissolution of our company, stock issuances equal to or exceeding 20% of the then outstanding shares or voting rights of common stock and class a stock (taken together), and new equity compensation plans or amendments if not materially consistent with our historical equity compensation practices. in addition, upon sanofi reaching 20% ownership of our then outstanding shares of class a stock and common stock (taken together), we are required under the amended and restated investor agreement to appoint an individual agreed upon by us and sanofi to our board of directors. subject to certain exceptions, we are required to use our reasonable efforts (including recommending that our shareholders vote in favor) to cause the election of this designee at our annual shareholder meetings for so long as sanofi maintains an equity interest in us that is the lower of (i) the highest percentage ownership sanofi attains following its acquisition of 20% of our then outstanding shares of class a stock and common stock (taken together) and (ii) 25% of our then outstanding shares of class a stock and common stock (taken together). this designee is required to be independent of our company, as determined under nasdaq rules, and not to be a current or former officer, director, employee, or paid consultant of sanofi. the convertible note hedges and warrant transactions we entered into in connection with our convertible senior notes issuance may affect the trading price of our common stock. in connection with our offering of our 1.875% convertible senior notes due october 1, 2016 ("convertible senior notes" or "notes"), we entered into convertible note hedge transactions with four financial institutions (the "hedge counterparties"), the purpose of which was to reduce the potential dilution to our common stock and/or offset potential cash payments in excess of the principal amount of the notes (as applicable) upon conversion of the notes. in the event that the hedge counterparties fail to deliver shares to us or potential cash payments (as applicable) as required under the convertible note hedge documents, we would not receive the benefit of such transactions. separately, we also entered into warrant transactions with the hedge counterparties. the warrant transactions could separately have a dilutive effect from the issuance of common stock pursuant to the warrants. in connection with hedging these transactions, the hedge counterparties and/or their affiliates may enter into various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock, and may enter into, or may unwind, various derivative transactions and/or purchase or sell our common stock or other securities of ours in secondary market transactions prior to maturity of the notes (and are likely to do so during any conversion period related to any conversion of the notes). these activities could have the effect of increasing or preventing a decline in, or could have a negative effect on, the value of our common stock and could have the effect of increasing or preventing a decline in the value of our common stock during any cash settlement averaging period related to a conversion of the notes. in addition, we intend to exercise options under the convertible note hedge transactions whenever notes are converted. in order to unwind their hedge position with respect to the options we exercise, the hedge counterparties and/or their affiliates may sell shares of our common stock or other securities in secondary market transactions or unwind various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock during the cash settlement averaging period for the converted notes. the effect, if any, of any of these transactions and activities on the trading price of our common stock or the notes will depend in part on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time, but any of these activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock and the value of the notes. the derivative transactions that the hedge counterparties and/or their affiliates expect to enter into to hedge these transactions may include cash-settled equity swaps referenced to our common stock. in certain circumstances, the hedge counterparties and/or their affiliates may have derivative positions that, when combined with the hedge counterparties' and their affiliates' ownership of our common stock, if any, would give them economic exposure to the return on a significant number of shares of our common stock. 41 table of contents the anti-takeover effects of provisions of our charter, by-laws, and of new york corporate law, as well as the contractual provisions in our investor and collaboration agreements and certain provisions of our compensation plans and agreements and our convertible senior notes and related warrant and hedge transactions, could deter, delay, or prevent an acquisition or other change in control of us and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. our restated certificate of incorporation, our by-laws, and the new york business corporation law contain various provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company or our management that shareholders may consider favorable or beneficial. some of these provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. these provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. these provisions include: authorization to issue blank check preferred stock, which is preferred stock that can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior shareholder approval, with rights senior to those of our common stock and class a stock; a staggered board of directors, so that it would take three successive annual meetings to replace all of our directors; a requirement that removal of directors may only be effected for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of at least eighty percent (80%) of the outstanding shares entitled to vote for directors, as well as a requirement that any vacancy on the board of directors may be filled only by the remaining directors; a provision whereby any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of shareholders may be taken without a meeting, only if, prior to such action, all of our shareholders consent, the effect of which is to require that shareholder action may only be taken at a duly convened meeting; a requirement that any shareholder seeking to bring business before an annual meeting of shareholders must provide timely notice of this intention in writing and meet various other requirements; and under the new york business corporation law, in addition to certain restrictions which may apply to business combinations involving our company and an interested shareholder , a plan of merger or consolidation of our company must be approved by two-thirds of the votes of all outstanding shares entitled to vote thereon. see the risk factor above captioned our existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval and over our management. pursuant to the january 2014 amended and restated investor agreement between us and sanofi, sanofi is bound by certain standstill provisions, which contractually prohibit sanofi from seeking to directly or indirectly exert control of our company or acquiring more than 30% of our class a stock and common stock (taken together). this prohibition will remain in place until the earliest of (i) the later of the fifth anniversaries of the expiration or earlier termination of our license and collaboration agreement with sanofi relating to our antibody collaboration or our zaltrap collaboration agreement with sanofi, each as amended; (ii) our announcement recommending acceptance by our shareholders of a tender offer or exchange offer that, if consummated, would constitute a change of control involving us; (iii) the public announcement of any definitive agreement providing for a change of control involving us; (iv) the date of any issuance of shares of common stock by us that would result in another party's having more than 10% of the voting power of our then outstanding class a stock and common stock (taken together) unless such party enters into a standstill agreement containing certain terms substantially similar to the standstill obligations of sanofi; or (v) other specified events, such as a liquidation or dissolution of our company. similarly, under our 2014 pdgfr-beta license and collaboration agreement with bayer healthcare, bayer healthcare is prohibited from seeking to influence the control of our company or acquiring more than 20% of our then outstanding class a stock and common stock (taken together). this prohibition will remain in place until the earliest of (i) the fifth anniversary of the expiration or earlier termination of the agreement; (ii) the public announcement of a tender offer, exchange offer, or other proposal that would constitute a change of control of our company; (iii) the acquisition (other than by dr. schleifer or his affiliates) of more than 20% of the voting power of our then outstanding class a stock and common stock (taken together); (iv) the issuance of shares of capital stock to another party (other than to an underwriter in a public offering) that would result in such party's having more than 7% of the voting power of our then outstanding class a stock and common stock (taken together) unless such third party enters into a standstill agreement containing terms substantially similar to the standstill obligations of bayer healthcare; (v) other specified events, such as a liquidation or dissolution of our company. the holders of our convertible senior notes have fundamental change purchase rights, which require us to purchase all or a portion of their notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, as defined in the indenture governing the notes. in addition, the indenture contains provisions requiring an increase to the conversion rate for conversions in connection with make-whole fundamental changes. these rights and provisions may in certain circumstances delay or prevent a takeover of us and the removal of incumbent management that might otherwise be beneficial to investors. in addition, upon the occurrence of certain extraordinary events, the hedge transactions would be exercised upon the conversion of notes, and the warrant transactions may be terminated. it is possible that the proceeds we receive upon the exercise of the convertible note hedge transactions would be significantly lower than the amounts we would be required to pay upon termination of the warrant transactions. such differences may result in the acquisition of us being on terms less favorable to our shareholders than it would otherwise be. 42 table of contents in addition, our change in control severance plan and the employment agreement with our chief executive officer provide for severance benefits in the event of termination as a result of a change in control of our company. also, many of our stock options issued under our second amended and restated 2000 long-term incentive plan, as amended and restated, may become fully vested in connection with a change in control of our company, as defined in the plan. further, under the amended and restated investor agreement between us and sanofi, we are required under certain circumstances to appoint an individual agreed upon by us and sanofi to our board of directors, as described above under " our existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval and over our management ." these contractual provisions may also have the effect of deterring, delaying, or preventing an acquisition or other change in control. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 81 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our earnings and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to changes in interest rates, principally in connection with our investments in marketable securities, which consist primarily of corporate bonds, direct obligations of the u.s. government and its agencies, and other debt securities guaranteed by the u.s. government. we do not believe we are materially exposed to changes in interest rates. under our current policies, we do not use interest rate derivative instruments to manage exposure to interest rate changes. we estimate that a 100 basis point, or 1%, unfavorable change in interest rates would have resulted in approximately a $6.8 million and $4.9 million decrease in the fair value of our investment portfolio at december 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. the increase in interest rate risk year over year is due primarily to higher balances of marketable debt securities that we held at december 31, 2013 compared to the same period of 2012. credit quality risk we have an investment policy that includes guidelines on acceptable investment securities, minimum credit quality, maturity parameters, and concentration and diversification. nonetheless, deterioration of the credit quality of an investment security subsequent to purchase may subject us to the risk of not being able to recover the full principal value of the security. during 2013, we recorded an other-than-temporary impairment charge of $2.9 million related to our investment in an equity security. during 2012 and 2011, we recorded no charges for other-than-temporary impairments of our marketable securities. we are also subject to credit risk in connection with accounts receivable from our product sales of eylea and arcalyst. these accounts receivable are due from three distributors and several specialty pharmacies, who are our customers. we have contractual payment terms with each of our customers, and we monitor our customers' financial performance and credit worthiness so that we can properly assess and respond to any changes in their credit profile. in addition, we may insure a portion of our accounts receivables within our overall risk management practices. during 2013, 2012, and 2011, we did not recognize any charges for write-offs of accounts receivable related to our marketed products. at december 31, 2013 and 2012, one individual customer accounted for 75% and 80% , respectively, of our net trade accounts receivable balances. foreign exchange risk as discussed further above, bayer healthcare markets eylea outside the united states and sanofi markets zaltrap worldwide, and we share in profits and losses with these collaborators from such sales (including a percentage of sales in japan). therefore, significant changes in foreign exchange rates of the countries outside the united states where our product is sold by our collaboration partners can impact our operating results and financial condition. as sales outside the united states continue to grow, and as we expand our international operations, we will continue to assess potential steps, including foreign currency hedging and other strategies, to mitigate our foreign exchange risk.risk factors 23 "risk factors," which could cause actual events and results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. we do not undertake any obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. general regeneron pharmaceuticals, inc. is a fully integrated biopharmaceutical company that discovers, invents, develops, manufactures, and commercializes medicines for the treatment of serious medical conditions. we commercialize medicines for eye diseases, colorectal cancer, and a rare inflammatory condition and have product candidates in development in other areas of high unmet medical need, including hypercholesterolemia, oncology, rheumatoid arthritis (ra), asthma, and atopic dermatitis. our total revenues were $2,819.6 million in 2014 , compared to $2,104.7 million in 2013 and $1,378.5 million in 2012 . our net income was $348.1 million , or $3.07 per diluted share, in 2014 , compared to $424.4 million , or $3.81 per diluted share, in 2013 , and $750.3 million , or $6.75 per diluted share, in 2012 . net income in 2012 included an income tax benefit of $335.8 million, primarily attributable to the release of substantially all of the valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. refer to part ii, item 7. "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - results of operations" below for further details of our financial results. we currently have three marketed products: eylea (aflibercept) injection, known in the scientific literature as vegf trap-eye, which is available in the united states, european union (eu), japan, and certain other countries outside the united states for the treatment of neovascular age-related macular degeneration (wet amd) and macular edema following central retinal vein occlusion (crvo). in addition, in july 2014, august 2014, and november 2014, the u.s. food and drug administration (fda), european commission, and japanese ministry of health, labour and welfare (mhlw), respectively, approved eylea for the treatment of diabetic macular edema (dme). in september 2014, the japanese mhlw approved eylea for myopic choroidal neovascularization (mcnv). in october 2014, the fda approved eylea for the treatment of macular edema following retinal vein occlusion (rvo), which includes macular edema following branch retinal vein occlusion (brvo). in november 2014, the fda accepted for priority review the supplemental biologics application (sbla) for eylea for the treatment of diabetic retinopathy in patients with dme, with a target action date of march 30, 2015. we are collaborating with bayer healthcare on the global development and commercialization of eylea outside the united states. regulatory applications have been submitted for eylea in europe and japan for the treatment of macular edema following brvo. 2 table of contents in january 2015, the european committee for medicinal products for human use (chmp) recommended eylea for approval for the treatment of visual impairment due to macular edema secondary to crvo or brvo. zaltrap (ziv-aflibercept) injection for intravenous infusion, known in the scientific literature as vegf trap, which is available in the united states, eu, and certain other countries for treatment, in combination with 5-fluorouracil, leucovorin, irinotecan (folfiri), of patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (mcrc) that is resistant to or has progressed following an oxaliplatin-containing regimen. regulatory applications for marketing authorization of zaltrap for the treatment of previously treated mcrc patients in other countries have also been submitted and are currently under review by the respective regulatory agencies. we and sanofi globally collaborate on the development and commercialization of zaltrap. arcalyst (rilonacept) injection for subcutaneous use, which is available in the united states for the treatment of cryopyrin-associated periodic syndromes (caps), including familial cold auto-inflammatory syndrome (fcas) and muckle-wells syndrome (mws), in adults and children 12 years and older. we have 17 product candidates in clinical development, all of which were discovered in our research laboratories. these consist of two trap-based clinical programs and 15 fully human monoclonal antibody product candidates, as summarized below. each of the antibodies in the table below was generated using our velocimmune technology. trap-based clinical programs eylea in phase 3 clinical development for the treatment of wet amd (asia) and dme (asia) in collaboration with bayer healthcare. as described below, eylea is also being studied in combination with (i) an antibody to platelet derived growth factor receptor beta (pdgfr-beta), and (ii) an antibody to angiopoietin-2 (ang2). zaltrap in phase 3 clinical development in metastatic colorectal cancer in the asia-pacific region (in collaboration with sanofi). antibody-based clinical programs in collaboration with sanofi praluent (alirocumab/regn727) antibody to pcsk9. in phase 3 clinical development for low-density lipoprotein (ldl) cholesterol reduction and for the prevention of cardiovascular events. sarilumab (regn88) antibody to the interleukin-6 receptor (il-6r). in clinical development in rheumatoid arthritis (phase 3) and non-infectious uveitis (phase 2). dupilumab (regn668) antibody to the interleukin-4 receptor (il-4r) alpha subunit. in clinical development in atopic dermatitis (phase 3), asthma (phase 2b), chronic sinusitis with nasal polyps (cswnp) (phase 2), and eosinophilic esophagitis (eoe) (phase 2). regn1033 antibody to myostatin (gdf8). in phase 2 clinical development in skeletal muscle disorders. regn2222 antibody against respiratory syncytial virus (rsv). phase 1 clinical study initiated in the second quarter of 2014. in the fourth quarter of 2014, sanofi provided notice to regeneron that it had elected not to continue co-development of regn2222 effective december 2015, and will be entitled to receive royalties on any future sales of the product candidate. antibody-based clinical programs in collaboration with bayer healthcare regn2176-3 combination product comprised of an antibody to pdgfr-beta co-formulated with eylea for use in ophthalmology, via intravitreal administration. phase 1 clinical study for the treatment of wet amd initiated in the first quarter of 2014. 3 table of contents antibody-based clinical programs developing independently regn1908-1909 * antibody combination in phase 1/phase 2 clinical development against allergic disease. regn1400 antibody to erbb3. in phase 1 clinical development in oncology. regn1154 * antibody against an undisclosed target. phase 1 clinical study in australia completed. regn1500 * antibody to angptl-3 in phase 1 clinical development. studies are ongoing under a partial clinical hold by the fda that excludes women of childbearing potential. regn1193 * antibody in phase 1 clinical development against an undisclosed target. regn1979 bispecific antibody against both cd20 and cd3 for use in oncology. phase 1 clinical study initiated in the third quarter of 2014. regn910-3 ** combination product comprised of an antibody to ang2 co-formulated with eylea for use in ophthalmology, via intravitreal administration. phase 1 clinical study initiated in the fourth quarter of 2014. regn2810 antibody to pd-1. phase 1 clinical study in oncology initiated in the first quarter of 2015. fasinumab (regn475) * antibody to nerve growth factor (ngf). in development for the treatment of pain; currently on partial clinical hold by the fda limiting duration of trials in osteoarthritis to 16 weeks. * sanofi did not opt-in to or elected not to continue to co-develop the product candidate and we have sole global rights. under the terms of our agreement, sanofi is entitled to receive a mid-single digit royalty on any future sales of the product candidate. ** we acquired from sanofi full exclusive rights to antibodies targeting the ang2 receptor and ligand in ophthalmology, which were previously included in our antibody collaboration with sanofi. under the terms of our agreement, sanofi is entitled to receive a potential development milestone and royalties on any future sales of the product candidate. development of regn2009, which was an antibody in phase 1 clinical development against an undisclosed target, was discontinued in the second quarter of 2014. in addition, nesvacumab (regn910), an antibody to ang2, and enoticumab (regn421), an antibody to delta-like ligand-4 (dll4), both of which were previously in phase 1 studies in oncology, are no longer in clinical development. our core business strategy is to maintain a strong foundation in basic scientific research and discovery-enabling technologies, and to combine that foundation with our clinical development, manufacturing, and commercial capabilities. we are executing our long-term objective to build a successful, integrated, multi-product biopharmaceutical company that provides patients and medical professionals with innovative options for preventing and treating human diseases. we believe that our ability to develop product candidates is enhanced by the application of our velocisuite technology platforms. our discovery platforms are designed to identify specific proteins of therapeutic interest for a particular disease or cell type and validate these targets through high-throughput production of genetically modified mice using our velocigene technology to understand the role of these proteins in normal physiology, as well as in models of disease. our human monoclonal antibody technology ( velocimmune ) and cell line expression technologies ( velocimab ) may then be utilized to discover and produce new product candidates directed against the disease target. our antibody product candidates currently in clinical trials were developed using velocimmune . we continue to invest in the development of enabling technologies to assist in our efforts to identify, develop, manufacture, and commercialize new product candidates. in early 2014, we launched a new human genetics initiative via a wholly owned subsidiary, regeneron genetics center llc (rgc). rgc performs sequencing and genotyping to generate de-identified genomic data. the objective of rgc is to expand the use of human genetics for discovering and validating genetic factors that cause or influence a range of diseases where there are major unmet medical needs, with the prospect of improving the drug discovery and development process. rgc is undertaking both large population-based efforts as well as family-based approaches. rgc leverages laboratory automation and an innovative approach to cloud computing to achieve high-quality throughput at a rate that exceeds 50,000 unique samples per year. 4 table of contents marketed products eylea (aflibercept) injection we commenced sales of eylea for the treatment of wet amd in november 2011, for the treatment of macular edema following crvo in september 2012, and for the treatment of dme in july 2014, following receipt of regulatory approval in the united states. in addition, in october 2014, the fda approved eylea for the treatment of macular edema following rvo, which includes macular edema following brvo. bayer healthcare commenced sales of eylea for the treatment of wet amd in the fourth quarter of 2012 and for the treatment of macular edema secondary to crvo in the fourth quarter of 2013 following receipt of regulatory approvals outside the united states. in addition, bayer healthcare commenced sales of eylea for the treatment of visual impairment due to dme in the third quarter of 2014 following receipt of regulatory approval in the eu. in september 2014, the japanese mhlw approved eylea for mcnv. in the fourth quarter of 2014, bayer healthcare submitted a regulatory application in china for eylea for the treatment of wet amd. bayer healthcare has additional regulatory applications for eylea for the treatment of wet amd, macular edema secondary to crvo, and dme pending in other countries. in addition, bayer healthcare has submitted applications to the european medicines agency (ema) and mhlw seeking marketing authorization in the eu and japan, respectively, for eylea for the treatment of macular edema following brvo. in january 2015, the chmp recommended eylea for approval for the treatment of visual impairment due to macular edema secondary to crvo or brvo. in september 2014, based on data from the vivid-dme and vista-dme trials, the fda granted eylea breakthrough therapy designation for the treatment of diabetic retinopathy in patients with dme. in november 2014, the fda accepted for priority review the sbla for eylea for the treatment of diabetic retinopathy in patients with dme, with a target action date of march 30, 2015. we are collaborating with bayer healthcare on the global development and commercialization of eylea outside the united states. bayer healthcare markets, and records revenue from sales of, eylea outside the united states, where, for countries other than japan, the companies share equally the profits and losses from sales of eylea. in japan, we are entitled to receive a percentage of the sales of eylea. we maintain exclusive rights to eylea in the united states and are entitled to all profits from such sales. net product sales of eylea in the united states were $1,736.4 million in 2014, $1,408.7 million in 2013, and $837.9 million in 2012. bayer healthcare records revenue from sales of eylea outside the united states. eylea net product sales outside of the united states were $1,038.5 million in 2014, $472.1 million in 2013, and $19.0 million in 2012. zaltrap (ziv-aflibercept) injection for intravenous infusion we and sanofi globally collaborate on the development and commercialization of zaltrap, and share profits and losses from commercialization of zaltrap, except for japan, where we are entitled to receive a percentage of the sales of zaltrap. zaltrap net product sales, which are recorded by sanofi, commenced in the united states in august 2012 and in europe in the first quarter of 2013, and were $91.4 million in 2014, $70.2 million in 2013, and $31.7 million in 2012. regulatory applications for marketing authorization of zaltrap for the treatment of previously treated mcrc patients in other countries have also been submitted and are currently under review by the respective regulatory agencies. arcalyst (rilonacept) injection for subcutaneous use arcalyst is available in the united states for the treatment of caps in adults and children 12 years and older. caps are a group of rare, inherited, auto-inflammatory conditions characterized by life-long, recurrent symptoms of rash, fever/chills, joint pain, eye redness/pain, and fatigue. intermittent, disruptive exacerbations or flares can be triggered at any time by exposure to cooling temperatures, stress, exercise, or other unknown stimuli. net product sales of arcalyst were $14.4 million in 2014, $17.1 million in 2013, and $20.2 million in 2012. 5 table of contents trap-based clinical programs eylea - ophthalmologic diseases overview vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) is a naturally occurring protein in the body. its normal role in a healthy organism is to trigger formation of new blood vessels (angiogenesis) supporting the growth of the body's tissues and organs. however, in certain diseases, such as wet amd, it is also associated with the growth of abnormal new blood vessels in the eye, which exhibit abnormal increased permeability that leads to edema. scarring and loss of fine-resolution central vision often results. crvo is caused by obstruction of the central retinal vein that leads to a back-up of blood and fluid in the retina. release of vegf contributes to increased vascular permeability in the eye and macular edema. in brvo, a blockage occurs in the blood vessels branching from the main vein draining the retina, resulting in the release of vegf and consequent retinal edema. for centrally involved dme, vegf-mediated leakage of fluid from blood vessels in the eye results in interference with vision. wet amd, diabetic retinopathy (which includes dme), and retinal vein occlusion are three of the leading causes of adult blindness in the developed world. in these conditions, severe visual loss is caused by neovascular proliferation and/or retinal edema. eylea is a recombinant fusion protein, consisting of portions of human vegf receptors 1 and 2 extracellular domains fused to the fc portion of human igg1 and formulated as an iso-osmotic solution for intravitreal administration. eylea acts as a soluble decoy receptor that binds vegf-a and placental growth factor (plgf) and thereby can inhibit the binding and activation of these cognate vegf receptors. eylea is specially purified and contains iso-osmotic buffer concentrations, allowing for injection into the eye. dme phase 3 vista-dme and vivid-dme trials . we are conducting the vista-dme study in the united states. bayer healthcare is conducting the vivid-dme study in europe, japan, and australia. patients in both trials were randomized to receive either eylea 2 mg monthly, eylea 2 mg every two months (after 5 initial monthly injections), or the comparator treatment of laser photocoagulation. based on the results of the phase 3 vista-dme and vivid-dme trials of eylea for the treatment of dme at 52 weeks, we submitted an sbla for u.s. regulatory approval of eylea in dme and in july 2014, the fda approved eylea for the treatment of dme. bayer healthcare also submitted an application for marketing approval for the treatment of dme in the eu, and the european commission approved eylea for the treatment of visual impairment due to dme in august 2014. bayer healthcare has made regulatory submissions in other markets within asia pacific and latin america. both the vivid-dme and vista-dme trials will continue as planned up to 148 weeks. in september 2014, based on data from the vivid-dme and vista-dme trials, the fda granted eylea breakthrough therapy designation for the treatment of diabetic retinopathy in patients with dme. in november 2014, the fda accepted for priority review the sbla for eylea for the treatment of diabetic retinopathy in patients with dme, with a target action date of march 30, 2015. phase 3 vivid-japan and vivid east-dme studies. in the first quarter of 2014, bayer healthcare reported positive results from an additional phase 3 safety study in japan (vivid-japan), which did not change the overall safety profile for eylea in dme. the japanese mhlw approved eylea for the treatment of dme in november 2014. in february 2013, we and bayer healthcare also initiated another phase 3 study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of eylea in dme in russia, china, and other asian countries (vivid east-dme). this trial is fully enrolled. macular edema following rvo phase 3 vibrant study . based on the results of the vibrant study, a supplemental bla for u.s. regulatory approval of eylea in brvo was submitted, and the fda approved eylea for the treatment of macular edema following rvo, which includes macular edema following brvo, in october 2014. in january 2014, bayer healthcare exercised its right to opt-in to the global development and commercialization of eylea outside the united states for the treatment of macular edema following brvo as described below under "collaborations with bayer healthcare - eylea outside the united states ." bayer healthcare has also submitted applications to the ema and the japanese mhlw seeking marketing authorization in the eu and japan, respectively, for eylea for the treatment of macular edema following brvo. 6 table of contents zaltrap (ziv-aflibercept) - oncology zaltrap is a fusion protein that is designed to bind all forms of vegf-a, vegf-b, and plgf, and prevent their interaction with cell surface receptors. vegf-a (and to a lesser degree, plgf) is required for angiogenesis that is needed for tumors to grow. zaltrap is in phase 3 clinical development in metastatic colorectal cancer in the asia-pacific region. late-stage antibody-based clinical programs praluent (alirocumab; pcsk9 antibody) for ldl cholesterol reduction overview elevated ldl cholesterol ("bad cholesterol") level is a validated risk factor leading to cardiovascular disease. statins are a class of drugs that lower ldl through inhibition of hmg-coa, an enzyme regulating the early and rate-limiting step in cholesterol biosynthesis that ultimately results in an increase in ldl receptors to increase the uptake of plasma ldl lipoproteins. pcsk9 is a secreted protein that plays a key role in modulating ldl cholesterol (ldl-c) levels in the body. pcsk9 binds to and induces the destruction of the ldl receptor, thereby interfering with cellular uptake and increasing circulating levels of ldl cholesterol. in a landmark study published in the new england journal of medicine in march 2006, patients with lower than normal pcsk9 levels due to a genetic abnormality not only had significantly lower levels of ldl-c, but also a significant reduction in the risk of coronary heart disease. we used our velocimmune technology to generate a fully human monoclonal antibody inhibitor of pcsk9, called praluent, that is intended to lower ldl cholesterol. clinical programs phase 3 odyssey program . we and sanofi initiated the global phase 3 odyssey program for praluent in the second quarter of 2012. the odyssey program consists of more than 23,500 patients, and includes eleven clinical trials evaluating the effect of praluent, dosed every two weeks, on lowering ldl cholesterol. in addition, the potential of praluent to demonstrate cardiovascular benefit is being prospectively assessed in the ongoing 18,000-patient odyssey outcomes trial. ldl cholesterol reduction is the primary efficacy endpoint for initial regulatory filings. additionally, the odyssey program includes two trials of praluent dosed every four weeks, odyssey choice i, which was initiated in the fourth quarter of 2013, and odyssey choice ii, which was initiated in the first quarter of 2014. patients in the odyssey choice i trial receive praluent 300 mg (most in combination with statins) each month and patients in the choice ii trial receive praluent 150 mg monotherapy and in combination with non-statin lipid lowering therapy each month. the odyssey studies are being conducted in clinical centers around the world including north america, western and eastern europe, south america, australia, and asia. in 2013, we and sanofi reported data from the odyssey mono trial, which evaluated the efficacy and safety of praluent monotherapy versus ezetimibe monotherapy in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia. in 2014, we and sanofi reported detailed positive results from nine additional phase 3 odyssey studies. all ten studies (odyssey mono, long term, fh i, fh ii, high fh, combo i, combo ii, options i, options ii, and alternative) met their primary efficacy endpoint of a greater percent reduction from baseline in ldl-c at 24 weeks compared to placebo or active comparator. based on the positive results of these studies, a bla for u.s. regulatory approval of praluent was submitted, and accepted by the fda in january 2015. as described further below, an fda rare pediatric disease priority review voucher was utilized in connection with this bla submission, as a result of which the submission was accepted by the fda for priority review; the target date for an fda decision on the bla is july 24, 2015. in addition, the ema recently accepted for review the marketing authorization application (maa) for praluent. all patients in the ten trials received praluent in addition to standard-of care lipid-lowering therapy, with the exception of patients in odyssey mono and some patients in odyssey alternative. the trials included patients with ldl-c not at goal with or without a documented history of cardiovascular disease (cvd), including hypercholesterolemic patients who were at high cardiovascular (cv) risk, had an inherited form of high cholesterol known as heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (hefh), and/or a history of intolerance to two or more statins, including one at the lowest dose. the trials evaluated two distinct dosing regimens: 150 mg every two weeks or 75 mg every two weeks increasing to 150 mg if needed to reach protocol-specified ldl-c targets. in the trials that used an individualized approach with 75 mg and 150 mg doses, the majority of patients reached their ldl-c goals while remaining on the 75 mg dose. the 75 mg and the 150 mg doses were delivered with a single, self-administered one-milliliter (ml) injection. a summary of primary efficacy endpoints and most common aes are as follows: 7 table of contents study patient group primary efficacy endpoint (percent change from baseline in ldl-c at 24 weeks) most common aes a praluent comparator long term praluent (n=1,553) vs. placebo (n=788) 150 mg dose all patients (high cv risk) (total n=2,341) 61% reduction 1% increase (placebo) b nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection, injection site reactions, influenza, diarrhea, urinary tract infection, bronchitis, myalgia, headache, back pain, arthralgia - hefh subgroup (n=416) 56% reduction 7% increase (placebo) c - non-hefh subgroup (n=1,894) 62% reduction 0.5% reduction (placebo) d combo i praluent (n=209) vs. placebo (n=107) 75 mg/150 mg dose high cv risk 48% reduction 2% reduction (placebo) b upper respiratory tract infection, nasopharyngitis, urinary tract infection, dizziness, sinusitis, injection-site reaction combo ii praluent (n=479) vs. ezetimibe (n=241) 75 mg/150 mg dose high cv risk 51% reduction 21% reduction (ezetimibe) b upper respiratory tract infection, accidental overdose, dizziness, myalgia options i [baseline statin = atorvastatin 20/40 mg] praluent (n=104) vs. ezetimibe (n=102) or double atorvastatin (n=104) or switch to rosuvastatin e (n=45) 75 mg / 150 mg dose high cv risk 44% - 54% reduction 21% - 23% reduction (ezetimibe) f 5% reduction (double statin dose) b 21% reduction (statin switch) b nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection, hypertension, back pain options ii [baseline statin = rosuvastatin 10/20 mg] praluent (n=103) vs. ezetimibe (n=101) or double rosuvastatin (n=101) 75 mg / 150 mg dose high cv risk 36% - 51% reduction 11% -14% reduction (ezetimibe) g 16% reduction (statin switch) g nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection, hypertension, back pain alternative praluent (n=126) vs. ezetimibe (n=125) [validation arm = atorvastatin 20 mg (n=63)] 75 mg / 150 mg dose high cv risk and history of intolerance to two or more statins 45% reduction 15% reduction (ezetimibe) b myalgia, nasopharyngitis, arthralgia, upper respiratory tract infection, headache, fatigue high fh praluent (n=72) vs. placebo (n=35) 150 mg dose hefh 46% reduction 7% reduction (placebo) b nasopharyngitis, injection-site reaction, diarrhea, sinusitis, bronchitis, headache, fatigue fh i praluent (n=323) vs. placebo (n=163) 75 mg / 150 mg dose hefh 49% reduction 9% increase (placebo) b injection site reactions, nasopharyngitis, influenza, headache fh ii praluent (n=167) vs. placebo (n=82) 75 mg / 150 mg dose hefh 49% reduction 3% increase (placebo) b 8 table of contents (continued) study patient group primary efficacy endpoint (percent change from baseline in ldl-c at 24 weeks) most common aes a praluent comparator mono praluent (n=52) vs. ezetimibe (n=51) 75 mg/150 mg dose moderate cv risk 48% reduction 16% reduction (ezetimibe) b nasopharyngitis, influenza, upper respiratory tract infection a. occurred in at least 5% of praluent-treated patients. rare allergic reactions have also been reported. b. p &lt; 0.0001 c. 95% confidence interval of the least squares (ls) mean difference vs. placebo: 57.5% - 69% reduction d. 95% confidence interval of the ls mean difference vs. placebo: 59% - 64% reduction e. 45 patients on atorvastatin 40 mg starting dose switched to rosuvastatin 40 mg f. for patients on atorvastatin 20 mg starting dose p=0.0004; for patients on atorvastatin 40 mg starting dose p &lt; 0.0001 g. for patients on rosuvastatin 10 mg starting dose p &lt; 0.0001; patients on rosuvastatin 20 mg starting dose did not reach statistical significance the odyssey alternative trial reassessed statin intolerance, as measured by skeletal muscle aes, by including a validation arm (atorvastatin 20 mg). although the study was not designed to demonstrate differences in adverse events between treatment groups, in this trial, there were fewer skeletal muscle aes in the praluent group compared to patients treated with atorvastatin (32.5% versus 46%, hazard ratio = 0.61; nominal p value = 0.042), and fewer compared to ezetimibe (41%). in addition, there were numerically fewer discontinuations for skeletal muscle aes in the praluent group (praluent 16%, ezetimibe 20%, atorvastatin 22%). in comparison, the overall rate of discontinuations for skeletal muscle aes across the phase 2 and 3 praluent placebo-controlled studies, where the majority of patients were also on statins, was 0.4% for praluent (n=2,476) and 0.5% for placebo (n=1,276). in january 2015, we and sanofi announced that the odyssey choice i and odyssey choice ii studies met their primary efficacy endpoints. the trials compared the reduction from baseline in ldl-c at 24 weeks with praluent versus placebo in patients with hypercholesterolemia. in these monthly dosing trials, the mean percent reduction in ldl-c from baseline was consistent with that seen in previous phase 3 trials evaluating praluent in every other week dosing. the most common aes in the trials (occurring in at least 5% of praluent-treated patients) were injection site reactions, headache, upper respiratory tract infection, arthralgia, nausea, sinusitis, pain in extremity, and fatigue. injection site reactions occurred more frequently in the praluent groups compared to placebo. detailed data will be presented at an upcoming medical conference. in july 2014, we purchased a priority review voucher from a third party, which had received it through the fda's rare pediatric disease priority review voucher program. the priority review voucher entitles the holder to designate a human drug application for priority review. the fda's goal for reviewing a human drug application with priority review is to take action within 6 months instead of 10 months under standard review. we and sanofi equally shared the voucher's purchase price of $67.5 million. the fda rare pediatric disease priority review voucher was utilized in connection with the recent bla submission for praluent and was the basis for fda's granting priority review for the application. phase 2 studies . in the first quarter of 2014, the first phase 2 study with praluent in japanese patients met its primary endpoint. the results demonstrated that the mean ldl-c percentage reduction from baseline to week 12, the primary efficacy endpoint of the study, was significantly greater in patients randomized to receive one of three doses of praluent administered every other week (q2w) - 150 mg, 75 mg, and 50 mg, in combination with statin therapy, compared to patients receiving placebo. at week 12, the mean percentage reduction in ldl-c from baseline in patients receiving praluent 50 mg q2w was 55%, praluent 75 mg q2w was 62% and praluent 150 mg q2w was 72%, compared to 3% in the placebo group. teaes in this study were reported by 52% of patients in the praluent 50 mg group, 48% of patients in the 75 mg group, and 64% of patients in the 150 mg group, compared to 32% in the placebo group. the most frequently reported teaes were nasopharyngitis, injection site reaction, back pain, cystitis and ligament sprain. sarilumab (regn88; il-6r antibody) for inflammatory diseases overview il-6 is a key cytokine involved in the pathogenesis of ra, causing inflammation and joint destruction. sarilumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody to il-6r generated using our velocimmune technology. 9 table of contents rheumatoid arthritis phase 3 saril-ra-mobility trial . in the fourth quarter of 2013, we and sanofi announced that in the saril-ra-mobility phase 3 clinical trial in adult patients with active ra who were inadequate responders to methotrexate (mtx) therapy, sarilumab treatment in combination with mtx improved disease signs and symptoms as well as physical function, and inhibited progression of joint damage. the 52 week saril-ra-mobility phase 3 trial enrolled approximately 1,200 patients with active, moderate-to-severe rheumatoid arthritis, and who were inadequate responders to mtx therapy. patients were randomized to one of three subcutaneous treatment groups, all in combination with mtx and dosed every other week: sarilumab 200 mg, sarilumab 150 mg, or placebo. both sarilumab groups showed clinically relevant and statistically significant improvements compared to the placebo group in all three co-primary endpoints (p &lt; 0.0001). in the saril-ra-mobility trial, infections were the most frequently reported adverse events and were reported with a higher incidence in the sarilumab groups compared to placebo, all in combination with mtx. among patients treated with sarilumab, a dose dependent decrease in mean neutrophil counts was observed. serious infections were not associated with grades 3 and 4 neutropenia in this study. increases in mean ldl cholesterol and transaminases were observed. in june 2014, efficacy and safety data from the saril-ra-mobility study was presented at the annual meeting of the european league against rheumatism (eular). additional data from the study was presented at the american college of rheumatology in november 2014. additional phase 3 studies . we and sanofi have also initiated additional phase 3 studies, saril-ra-target, saril-ra-ascertain, saril-ra-one, saril-ra-monarch, and saril-ra-easy. a phase 3 trial in japan, saril-ra-kakehasi, was also initiated in the fourth quarter of 2014. all these trials, with the exception of saril-ra-monarch and saril-ra-kakehasi, are fully enrolled. the broad saril-ra clinical development program is focused on adult populations with moderate-to-severe ra who are inadequate responders to either mtx or tumor necrosis factor alpha (tnf-alpha) inhibitor therapy. patients who complete saril-ra-mobility, saril-ra-target, saril-ra-ascertain, saril-ra-compare, or saril-ra-one are offered enrollment into the ongoing saril-ra-extend, which is an open-label, long-term safety study of sarilumab. the saril-ra-compare phase 3 study has been discontinued due to slower than anticipated enrollment; this discontinuation will not impact planned global regulatory filings. non-infectious uveitis phase 2 saril-niu-saturn study . a phase 2 study, saril-niu-saturn, was initiated in the fourth quarter of 2013 and is a placebo-controlled proof-of-concept study evaluating the safety and efficacy of sarilumab in non-infectious uveitis. dupilumab (regn668; il-4r antibody) for allergic and inflammatory conditions overview il-4r is required for signaling by the cytokines il-4 and il-13. both of these cytokines are critical mediators of immune response, which, in turn, drives the formation of immunoglobulin e (ige) antibodies and the development of allergic responses, as well as the atopic state that underlies atopic (allergic) dermatitis, asthma, and chronic sinusitis with nasal polyposis. dupilumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody generated using our velocimmune technology that is designed to bind to il-4r alpha subunit and block signaling from both il-4 and il-13. atopic dermatitis phase 2a trial. data from four phase 1 and phase 2 studies of dupilumab in adults with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis, a severe chronic form of eczema, were published in the new england journal of medicine in july 2014. in the phase 2a study of 109 patients with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis, dupilumab 300 mg administered weekly was associated with rapid and marked sustained improvements in several endpoints such as eczema severe score index (easi), scoring of atopic dermatitis (scorad), investigator's global assessment score (iga), baseline body surface area (bsa), and pruritus. after 12 weeks of treatment, patients receiving dupilumab achieved statistically superior clinical outcomes compared to patients in the placebo group in all measures of disease activity and pruritus. there were notably fewer patients with skin infections associated with dupilumab treatment (5.5%), compared with placebo (24.1%). there were no infection related serious aes or eczema herpeticum in the dupilumab group. in the placebo group, three patients with skin infections and four patients with atopic dermatitis exacerbations required hospitalization. the most common teaes were nasopharyngitis, headache, and conjunctivitis. phase 2b trial . in july 2014, we and sanofi announced positive results from a phase 2b dose-ranging study of dupilumab in adult patients with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis. all doses of dupilumab met the primary endpoint of a greater improvement in easi scores from baseline compared to placebo. in the phase 2b trial, all five subcutaneous doses of dupilumab showed a dose-dependent improvement in the primary endpoint, the mean percent change in easi score from baseline to week 16. the improvements in easi score ranged from a high of 74% for patients in the highest dose group, who received 300 mg weekly, to 10 table of contents a low of 45% in patients who received the lowest dose of 100 mg monthly, compared to 18% for patients in the placebo group (p&lt;0.0001 for all doses). the most common ae in the phase 2b study was nasopharyngitis, which was balanced across dupilumab treatment groups (18.5% to 23%) compared to placebo (21%). injection site reactions were more frequent in the dupilumab group (5% to 9.5%) compared to placebo (3%), as was headache (12% to 15%) compared to placebo (8%). dupilumab-treated patients showed highly statistically significant and dose-dependent improvements in additional key efficacy measures compared to placebo after 16 weeks of treatment: 12% to 33% of dupilumab-treated patients achieved clearing or near-clearing of skin lesions, as measured by an iga score of 0 or 1, compared to 2% with placebo (p=0.02 to p&lt;0.0001). dupilumab-treated patients experienced a 16.5% to 47% mean reduction in itching, as measured by the pruritus numerical-rating scale (nrs) score, compared to an increase of 5% in the placebo group (p=0.0005 to p&lt;0.0001). this phase 2b double-blind, placebo-controlled, 16-week, dose-ranging study randomized 380 patients with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis, who could not be adequately controlled with topical medication or for whom topical treatment was not advisable. patients were randomized to receive one of five doses of dupilumab (300 mg weekly, 300 mg every other week, 300 mg monthly, 200 mg every other week, 100 mg monthly) or placebo. patients in the study had approximately 50% of their skin affected by atopic dermatitis at baseline. in the year preceding enrollment in the study, approximately 35% of patients received an oral corticosteroid and approximately 20% received a systemic non-steroid immunosuppressant for atopic dermatitis. approximately 60% of patients had another allergic condition, including approximately 40% of patients who had a history of asthma. the follow-up period of the study is ongoing and patients will be followed for 16 weeks after treatment. phase 3 study . in the fourth quarter of 2014, four phase 3 trials in atopic dermatitis, liberty ad chronos, liberty ad solo 1, liberty ad solo 2, and liberty ad open label extension, were initiated and are currently enrolling patients. liberty ad chronos is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multi-national study with the primary objective of demonstrating the efficacy of dupilumab in adults with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis when administered concomitantly with topical corticosteroids through 16 weeks. secondary objectives of the liberty ad chronos study will evaluate the long-term safety and efficacy of dupilumab up to 52 weeks. the liberty ad phase 3 clinical program will consist of patients with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis at sites worldwide. in november 2014, the fda granted breakthrough therapy designation to dupilumab for the treatment of adults with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis who are not adequately controlled with topical prescription therapy and/or for whom these treatments are not appropriate. this designation is based on positive results from phase 1 and 2 clinical trials, and the determination that atopic dermatitis is a serious disease and preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the drug may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies. asthma phase 2b trial . in the fourth quarter of 2014, we and sanofi announced positive results from the interim analysis of a dose-ranging phase 2b study of dupilumab in adult patients with uncontrolled moderate-to-severe asthma. in the study, the three highest doses of dupilumab in combination with standard-of-care therapy met the primary endpoint of a statistically significant improvement from baseline in fev 1 at 12 weeks in patients with high blood eosinophils (greater than or equal to 300 cells/microliter), as compared to placebo in combination with standard-of-care therapy. in addition, two doses of dupilumab (200 mg every other week and 300 mg every other week) showed a statistically significant improvement in mean percent change in fev 1 , as well as a reduction in severe exacerbations, in both the high eosinophils and overall study population. key results included: in the high eosinophils patient group - mean improvements from baseline in fev 1 (and mean percent change in fev 1 ) at 12 weeks, the primary (and a secondary) endpoint of the study were: 390 ml (26%) dupilumab 300 mg every other week (q2w); 430 ml (26%) dupilumab 200 mg q2w; 180 ml (10%) placebo. (p&lt;0.01) in the overall population - mean improvements from baseline in fev 1 at 12 weeks (and mean percent change in fev 1 ) were: 280 ml (18%) dupilumab 300 mg q2w; 310 ml (18%) dupilumab 200 mg q2w; 120 ml (6%) placebo. (p&lt;0.001) in both the high eosinophils patient group and overall patient group - dupilumab showed a reduction in adjusted annualized rate of severe exacerbations compared to placebo (64% to 75% reduction, p&lt;0.05 for high eosinophils group and p&lt;0.01 for the overall population) these results were based on a pre-specified interim analysis, which occurred when all patients had reached week 12 of the 24-week treatment period; the average treatment duration at the time of the analysis was 21.5 weeks. the final analyses on exacerbations and safety will occur at 24 weeks. the most common adverse event was injection site reaction, which was more frequent in the four dupilumab dose groups (13% to 25%) compared to placebo (12%). other common adverse events in the study included upper respiratory tract infection (10% to 13% dupilumab; 13% placebo), headache (5% to 10% dupilumab; 8% placebo), nasopharyngitis (3% to 10% dupilumab; 6% placebo) and bronchitis (5% to 8% dupilumab; 8% placebo). the incidence of infections was balanced 11 table of contents across treatment groups (42% to 45% dupilumab; 46% placebo), as was the incidence of serious adverse events (3% to 7% dupilumab; 5% placebo). the double-blind, placebo-controlled, 24-week, dose-ranging study enrolled 776 adult patients with moderate-to-severe uncontrolled asthma, as defined by the global initiative for asthma 2014 guidelines. trial participants were randomized to receive one of four doses of dupilumab (300 mg every other week, 200 mg every other week, 300 mg monthly, 200 mg monthly) or placebo. approximately 40 percent of patients had high eosinophils across the dose groups. during the treatment period, patients continue their stable medium- or high-dose inhaled corticosteroid and long-acting beta agonist (ics/laba) combination product. patients can administer inhaled rescue medication as needed during the study. a severe exacerbation event during the study is defined as a deterioration of asthma requiring the use of systemic corticosteroids for three or more days, or hospitalization or an emergency room visit. approximately 77% of randomized patients have a history of atopic disease, which includes atopic dermatitis, allergic conjunctivitis, allergic rhinitis, chronic rhinosinusitis, nasal polyposis, food allergy, and/or hives history. the 24-week treatment period of the study is ongoing, and patients will be followed for 16 weeks after treatment. full results of the trial will be presented at an upcoming scientific meeting. a phase 3 trial in patients with moderate-to-severe asthma is expected to be initiated during 2015. chronic sinusitis with nasal polyps phase 2 study . in the third quarter of 2013, a phase 2 trial in nasal polyposis was initiated. in september 2014, we and sanofi announced positive results from the phase 2 proof-of-concept study of dupilumab in patients with moderate-to-severe cswnp who did not respond to intranasal corticosteroids. the randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study enrolled 60 adult patients with moderate-to-severe cswnp. patients in the study received 300 mg of dupilumab or placebo administered once per week subcutaneously for 16 weeks, following an initial loading dose of 600 mg. all patients in the study also received a standard-of-care nasal corticosteroid spray. patients were eligible for the study if they continued to have severe cswnp despite standard treatment for at least one month. fifty percent of patients in the study had received prior surgery for their condition. asthma was also present in 58 percent of cswnp patients in the study. the conditions are often co-morbid and symptoms/exacerbations are frequently interdependent. in the study, dupilumab resulted in a statistically-significant improvement in the size of nasal polyps, as measured by endoscopic nasal polyp score (nps), the primary endpoint of the study. statistically significant improvements in all secondary efficacy endpoints were also observed, including objective measures of sinusitis by ct scan, nasal air flow, and patient-reported symptoms (sense of smell, congestion, postnasal drip, runny nose and sleep disturbance). in a pre-specified exploratory analysis, dupilumab-treated patients who also had asthma demonstrated significant improvements in asthma control. the safety profile was consistent with previous studies. the most common aes with dupilumab were injection site reactions, nasopharyngitis, oropharyngeal pain, epistaxis, headache, and dizziness. detailed results of the study will be presented at an upcoming medical conference. eosinophilic esophagitis phase 2 study. a phase 2 study of dupilumab in eosinophilic esophagitis was initiated in the first quarter of 2015. eoe is a chronic allergic inflammatory disease that is considered a major cause of gastrointestinal illness. eosinophils are a type of white blood cell that, due to allergens, can accumulate in the esophagus, causing inflammation and tissue injuries that create difficulty swallowing. people with eosinophilic esophagitis may also have allergies, asthma, atopic dermatitis, or chronic respiratory disease. research programs our preclinical research programs are in the areas of oncology, angiogenesis, ophthalmology, metabolic and related diseases, muscle diseases and disorders, inflammation and immune diseases, bone and cartilage, pain, cardiovascular diseases, and infectious diseases. 12 table of contents research and development technologies many proteins that are either on the surface of or secreted by cells play important roles in biology and disease. one way that a cell communicates with other cells is by releasing specific signaling proteins, either locally or into the bloodstream. these proteins have distinct functions and are classified into different "families" of molecules, such as peptide hormones, growth factors, and cytokines. all of these secreted (or signaling) proteins travel to and are recognized by another set of proteins, called "receptors," which reside on the surface of responding cells. these secreted proteins impact many critical cellular and biological processes, causing diverse effects ranging from the regulation of growth of particular cell types to inflammation mediated by white blood cells. secreted proteins can at times be overactive and thus result in a variety of diseases. in these disease settings, blocking the action of specific secreted proteins can have clinical benefit. in other cases, proteins on the cell-surface can mediate the interaction between cells, such as the processes that give rise to inflammation and autoimmunity. our scientists have developed two different technologies to design protein therapeutics to block the action of specific cell surface or secreted proteins. the first technology, termed the "trap" technology, was used to generate our three approved products, eylea, zaltrap, and arcalyst. these novel "traps" are composed of fusions between two distinct receptor components and the constant region of an antibody molecule called the "fc region," resulting in high affinity product candidates. velocisuite is our second technology platform; it is used for discovering, developing, and producing fully human monoclonal antibodies that can address both secreted and cell-surface targets. velocisuite. velocisuite consists of velocimmune, velocigene, velocimouse , and velocimab . the velocimmune mouse platform is utilized to produce fully human monoclonal antibodies. velocimmune was generated by exploiting our velocigene technology (see below), in a process in which six megabases of mouse immune gene loci were replaced, or "humanized," with corresponding human immune gene loci. velocimmune mice can be used to generate efficiently fully human monoclonal antibodies to targets of therapeutic interest. velocimmune and our entire velocisuite offer the potential to increase the speed and efficiency through which human monoclonal antibody therapeutics may be discovered and validated, thereby improving the overall efficiency of our early stage drug development activities. we are utilizing the velocimmune technology to produce our next generation of drug candidates for preclinical and clinical development. our velocigene platform allows custom and precise manipulation of very large sequences of dna to produce highly customized alterations of a specified target gene, or genes, and accelerates the production of knock-out and transgenic expression models without using either positive/negative selection or isogenic dna. in producing knock-out models, a color or fluorescent marker may be substituted in place of the actual gene sequence, allowing for high-resolution visualization of precisely where the gene is active in the body during normal body functioning as well as in disease processes. for the optimization of preclinical development and pharmacology programs, velocigene offers the opportunity to humanize targets by replacing the mouse gene with the human homolog. thus, velocigene allows scientists to rapidly identify the physical and biological effects of deleting or over-expressing the target gene, as well as to characterize and test potential therapeutic molecules. our velocimouse technology platform allows for the direct and immediate generation of genetically altered mice from embryonic stem cells (es cells), thereby avoiding the lengthy process involved in generating and breeding knockout mice from chimeras. mice generated through this method are normal and healthy and exhibit a 100% germ-line transmission. furthermore, mice developed using our velocimouse technology are suitable for direct phenotyping or other studies. we have also developed our velocimab platform for the rapid screening of antibodies and rapid generation of expression cell lines for our traps and our velocimmune human monoclonal antibodies. we have utilized our velocisuite technologies to develop a class of potential drug candidates, known as bi-specific antibodies. in the area of immunotherapies in oncology, we are exploring the use of bi-specific antibodies that target tumor antigens and the cd3 receptor on t-cells to harness the oncolytic properties of t-cells. our first such bi-specific antibody, which entered into clinical development in 2014, targets cd20 and cd3. regeneron genetics center. in early 2014, we launched a new human genetics initiative via a wholly owned subsidiary, regeneron genetics center llc. rgc leverages de-identified clinical and molecular data from human volunteers for medically relevant associations in a blinded fashion designed to preserve patients' privacy. the objective of rgc is to expand the use of human genetics for discovering and validating genetic factors that cause or influence a range of diseases where there are major unmet medical needs, with the prospect of improving the drug discovery and development process. rgc is undertaking both large population-based efforts as well as family-based approaches. rgc utilizes laboratory automation and an innovative approach to cloud computing to achieve high-quality throughput at a rate that exceeds 50,000 unique samples per year. central to the work of rgc is a collaboration with the geisinger health system of pennsylvania. during the initial five-year collaboration term, geisinger plans to collect samples from more than 100,000 consented patient volunteers, while rgc will perform sequencing and genotyping to generate de-identified genomic data. rgc has expanded on its foundational population-based collaboration with geisinger health systems with new partners with other institutions such as columbia university medical 13 table of contents center, the clinic for special children, baylor college of medicine, sick kids foundation, and the national institutes of health (nih). acquisition of ophthalmology development programs from sanofi in may 2013, we acquired from sanofi full exclusive rights to two families of novel antibodies invented at regeneron and previously included in our antibody collaboration with sanofi. we acquired full rights to antibodies targeting the pdgf family of receptors and ligands in ophthalmology and all other indications and to antibodies targeting the ang2 receptor and ligand in ophthalmology. as described further below, in january 2014, we entered into an agreement with bayer healthcare governing the joint development and commercialization outside the united states of an antibody product candidate to pdgfr-beta for the treatment of ocular diseases or disorders. with respect to pdgf antibodies, we made a $10.0 million up-front payment to sanofi in may 2013, two $5.0 million development milestone payments to sanofi in 2014, and are obligated to pay up to $30.0 million in additional potential development milestones and royalties on any future sales. with respect to ang2 antibodies in ophthalmology, we also made a $10.0 million up-front payment to sanofi in may 2013, and are obligated to pay a potential $5.0 million development milestone payment and royalties on any future sales. collaboration agreements collaborations with sanofi zaltrap . since september 2003, we and sanofi have been parties to a global collaboration for the development and commercialization of zaltrap. under the current terms of our collaboration agreement we and sanofi share co-promotion rights and share profits and losses from commercialization of zaltrap outside of japan. in japan, we are entitled to receive a percentage of approximately 35% on sales of zaltrap, subject to certain potential adjustments. under the collaboration agreement, agreed upon worldwide development expenses incurred by both companies during the term of the agreement are funded by sanofi. we are obligated to reimburse sanofi out of our share of zaltrap profits, if any, for 50% of the development expenses that they funded. the reimbursement payment in any quarter will equal 5% of the then outstanding repayment obligation, but never more than our share of the zaltrap profits in the quarter unless we elect to reimburse sanofi at a faster rate. as a result, we expect that, for the foreseeable future, our share of any zaltrap profits will be used to reimburse sanofi for this repayment obligation. antibodies . since november 2007, we and sanofi have been parties to a global, strategic collaboration to discover, develop, and commercialize fully human monoclonal antibodies. the collaboration is governed by a discovery and preclinical development agreement and a license and collaboration agreement (each as amended). pursuant to the collaboration, sanofi is funding up to $160 million per year of our antibody discovery activities over the period from 2010-2017 to identify and validate potential drug discovery targets and develop fully human monoclonal antibodies against these targets. we lead the design and conduct of research activities under the collaboration, including target identification and validation, antibody development, research and preclinical activities through filing of an investigational new drug application (ind) or its equivalent, toxicology studies, and manufacture of preclinical and clinical supplies. sanofi has an option to extend certain antibody development and preclinical activities relating to selected program targets for up to an additional three years after 2017. for each drug candidate identified through discovery research under the discovery agreement, sanofi has the option to license rights to the candidate under the license agreement. if it elects to do so, sanofi will co-develop the drug candidate with us through product approval. development costs for the drug candidate are shared between the companies, with sanofi generally funding these costs up front, except that following receipt of the first positive phase 3 trial results for a co-developed drug candidate, subsequent phase 3 trial-related costs for that drug candidate are shared 80% by sanofi and 20% by us. we are generally responsible for reimbursing sanofi for half of the total development costs for all collaboration antibody products from our share of profits from commercialization of collaboration products to the extent they are sufficient for this purpose. however, we are not required to apply more than 10% of our share of the profits from collaboration products in any calendar quarter towards reimbursing sanofi for these development costs. under our collaboration agreement, sanofi will record product sales and cost of sales for commercialized products, and regeneron has the right to co-promote such products. we and sanofi will equally share profits and losses from sales within the united states. we and sanofi will share profits outside the united states on a sliding scale based on sales starting at 65% (sanofi)/35% (us) and ending at 55% (sanofi)/45% (us), and will share losses outside the united states at 55% (sanofi)/45% (us). in addition to profit sharing, we are entitled to receive up to $250 million in sales milestone payments, with milestone payments commencing after aggregate annual sales outside the united states exceed $1.0 billion on a rolling 12-month basis. 14 table of contents collaborations with bayer healthcare eylea outside the united states . since october 2006, we and bayer healthcare have been parties to a license and collaboration agreement for the global development and commercialization outside the united states of eylea. under the agreement, we and bayer healthcare collaborate on, and share the costs of, the development of eylea through an integrated global plan. bayer healthcare markets eylea outside the united states, where, for countries other than japan, the companies share equally in profits and losses from sales of eylea. in japan, we are entitled to receive a tiered percentage of between 33.5% and 40.0% of eylea net sales. in january 2014, bayer healthcare decided to participate in the global development and commercialization of eylea outside the united states for the treatment of macular edema following brvo. in connection with this decision, bayer healthcare reimbursed us for a defined share of the eylea global development costs that we had incurred prior to february 2014 for the brvo indication. in addition, all future agreed upon global eylea development expenses incurred in connection with brvo are being shared equally, and profits or losses on sales of eylea outside of the united states for the treatment of macular edema following brvo will also be shared (for countries other than japan). as described above, we are entitled to receive a tiered percentage of eylea net sales in japan. since inception of the agreement, we have earned $110.0 million of development milestone payments and $150.0 million of sales milestone payments from bayer healthcare. in addition, we may earn a $15.0 million additional sales milestone payment if twelve-month sales of specific commercial supplies of eylea outside the united states achieve a certain specified level. commencing with the first commercial sale of eylea in a major market country outside the united states, we became obligated to reimburse bayer healthcare for 50% of the development costs that it has incurred under the agreement from our share of the collaboration profits (including payments to us based on sales in japan). the reimbursement payment in any quarter will equal 5% of the then outstanding repayment obligation, but never more than our share of the collaboration profits in the quarter unless we elect to reimburse bayer healthcare at a faster rate. as a result, we expect that, initially, a portion of our share of eylea profits outside the united states will be used to reimburse bayer healthcare for this repayment obligation. within the united states, we retain exclusive commercialization rights to eylea and are entitled to all profits from any such sales. pdgfr-beta antibody outside the united states . in january 2014, we entered into an agreement with bayer healthcare governing the joint development and commercialization outside the united states of an antibody product candidate to pdgfr-beta, including in combination with eylea, for the treatment of ocular diseases or disorders. regn2176-3, a combination product candidate comprised of an antibody to pdgfr-beta co-formulated with eylea, is being developed under the agreement. under the agreement, we will conduct the initial development of the pdgfr-beta antibody through completion of the first proof-of-concept study, upon which bayer healthcare will have a right to opt-in to license and collaborate on further development and commercialization outside the united states. in connection with the agreement, bayer healthcare made a $25.5 million non-refundable upfront payment to us in january 2014, and is obligated to pay 25% of global development costs and 50% of development costs exclusively for the territory outside the united states under the initial development plan. in addition, bayer healthcare is obligated to reimburse us for 50% of development milestone payments to sanofi related to our acquisition of rights to antibodies targeting the pdgf family of receptors in may 2013. in that regard, bayer healthcare made two $2.5 million development milestone payments to us in the first quarter of 2014. further, in connection with our initial development of the pdgfr-beta antibody through completion of the first proof-of-concept study, we are eligible to receive up to $15.0 million in future development milestone payments from bayer healthcare, although certain of these development milestone payments could be reduced by half if bayer healthcare does not opt-in to the collaboration. if bayer healthcare exercises its right to opt-in to the collaboration, they will obtain exclusive commercialization rights to the product outside the united states, continue to pay for 25% of global development costs and 50% of development costs exclusively for the territory outside the united states, pay a $20.0 million opt-in payment to us, pay a $20.0 million development milestone to us upon receipt of the first marketing approval in the european union or japan, share profits and losses from sales outside the united states equally with us, and be responsible for the payment of royalties on sales outside the united states to sanofi. within the united states, we have exclusive commercialization rights and will retain all of the profits from sales. if bayer healthcare does not opt-in to the collaboration, we will have exclusive rights to develop and commercialize pdgfr-beta antibodies (except as a combination product with eylea) for use outside the united states. we also have the right to opt-out of the collaboration upon completion of the first proof-of-concept study for the pdgfr-beta antibody. if we opt-out of the collaboration and bayer healthcare exercises its right to opt-in to the collaboration, bayer healthcare will obtain exclusive rights to the pdgfr-beta antibody (except as a combination product with eylea) outside of the united 15 table of contents states, be responsible for all development costs outside of the united states, be responsible for all royalty and milestone payments to a third party, and will retain all of the profits from sales of the pdgfr-beta antibody outside of the united states. unless terminated earlier in accordance with its provisions, the agreement will continue to be in effect until such time as neither party or its respective affiliates or sublicensees is developing or commercializing a pdgfr-beta antibody in the specified field outside of the united states and such discontinuation is acknowledged as permanent by both us and bayer healthcare in writing. collaboration with avalanche biotechnologies, inc. in may 2014, we entered into a research collaboration and license agreement with avalanche biotechnologies, inc. to discover, develop, and commercialize novel gene therapy products for the treatment of ophthalmologic diseases. in connection with the agreement, we made a $2.0 million upfront payment and a $6.0 million pre-payment of collaboration research costs, and are obligated to pay potential additional research costs, an aggregate amount of up to $80.0 million per product upon meeting certain potential development and regulatory milestones (for products directed to as many as eight therapeutic targets, or up to an aggregate of $640.0 million), and royalties on any future sales of such products. we also purchased an aggregate of $5.0 million of avalanche preferred stock. under the agreement, we collaborate with avalanche to conduct research for the discovery of novel gene therapy vectors. subsequent to the filing of an ind with the fda for a product candidate, we may exercise our right to obtain exclusive worldwide rights to further research, develop, and commercialize such product candidates directed to the applicable therapeutic target. in addition, avalanche has the option to share in development costs and profits for products directed toward up to two therapeutic targets of its choice. in july 2014, avalanche commenced an initial public offering (ipo) of its common stock and thereby triggered our obligation under the research collaboration and license agreement to purchase up to $10.0 million of avalanche common stock in a concurrent private placement. as part of the concurrent private placement, we purchased from avalanche at the closing of its ipo shares of avalanche common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $10.0 million . in addition, at the closing of its ipo, avalanche preferred stock, including the avalanche preferred stock held by us, automatically converted on a one-for-one basis into avalanche common stock. manufacturing our manufacturing facilities are located in rensselaer, new york and consist of approximately 490,000 square feet of owned research, manufacturing, office, and warehouse space. we currently have approximately 74,000 liters of cell culture capacity at these facilities. these amounts include the impact of an expansion project completed in 2014 which added 20,000 liters of cell culture capacity and 65,000 additional square feet of space. at december 31, 2014 , we employed approximately 1,015 people at our rensselaer facilities. we also depend on a limited number of third party providers for other services with respect to our clinical and commercial product supply requirements, including product packaging, filling, and labeling. in may 2014, we entered into an agreement to acquire a 400,000 square foot facility in limerick, ireland. we are renovating this facility to accommodate and support our growth, primarily in connection with expanding our manufacturing capacity to support our global supply chain. certain raw materials or other products necessary for the manufacture and formulation of eylea, zaltrap, arcalyst, and our product candidates are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. in addition, we rely on certain third parties to perform filling, finishing, distribution, laboratory testing, and other services related to the manufacture of eylea, zaltrap, arcalyst, and our product candidates, and to supply various raw materials and other products. see part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to manufacturing and supply" for further information. among the conditions for regulatory marketing approval of a medicine is the requirement that the prospective manufacturer's quality control and manufacturing procedures conform to the good manufacturing practice (gmp) regulations of the health authority. in complying with standards set forth in these regulations, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money, and effort in the areas of production and quality control to ensure full technical compliance. manufacturing establishments, both foreign and domestic, are also subject to inspections by or under the authority of the fda and by other national, federal, state, and local agencies. we are approved to manufacture our marketed products at our rensselaer facilities. sales and marketing we have a new products marketing and planning group and a market research group to evaluate commercial opportunities for our targets and drug candidates, assess the competitive environment, and analyze the commercial potential of our product portfolio, and prepare for market launch of new products. this group works in close collaboration with our collaborators for co-developed products to develop marketing plans and forecasts and to develop and execute pre-launch market development programs. 16 table of contents we also have a full-service commercialization group to handle various aspects of our eylea program. the group includes experienced professionals in the fields of marketing, communications, professional education, patient education and advocacy, reimbursement and managed markets, trade and distribution, commercial operations, commercial analytics, market research, and forecasting. moreover, we have hired, trained, and deployed a field-based organization including regional sales directors, medical sales specialists, and reimbursement managers, each typically with 7 or more years of experience in the biopharmaceutical industry in a variety of therapeutic areas including oncology, ophthalmology, immunology, and inflammation. we outsource the warehousing and distribution of our finished drug products. we are in the process of significantly expanding the commercialization group to support the potential launch of praluent in 2015, and also to prepare for the potential future launches of sarilumab and dupilumab. in connection with the sales and marketing of arcalyst for caps, we have a marketing, trade, reimbursement, and distribution group to provide case management and reimbursement services to patients with caps and their treating physicians. in connection with the u.s. marketing of zaltrap, we have a marketing and market access group to work in collaboration with sanofi. customers we sell eylea in the united states to several distributors and specialty pharmacies. we sell arcalyst in the united states to two specialty pharmacies. under these distribution models, the distributors and specialty pharmacies generally take physical delivery of product. for eylea, the distributors and specialty pharmacies generally sell the product directly to healthcare providers, whereas for arcalyst, the specialty pharmacies sell the product directly to patients. for the years ended december 31, 2014 , 2013 , and 2012, we recorded 73% , 76% , and 78% , respectively, of our total gross product revenue from sales to a single distributor, besse medical, which is a subsidiary of amerisourcebergen corporation. competition we face substantial competition from pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and chemical companies. our competitors include genentech (a member of the roche group), roche, novartis ag, pfizer inc., bayer healthcare, allergan, inc., eli lilly and company, abbvie inc., sanofi, merck &amp; co., inc., amgen inc., astrazeneca plc, bristol-myers squibb company, johnson &amp; johnson, glaxosmithkline plc, and others. many of our competitors have substantially greater research, preclinical, and clinical product development and manufacturing capabilities, and financial, marketing, and human resources than we do. competition from smaller competitors may also be or become more significant if those competitors acquire or discover patentable inventions, form collaborative arrangements, or merge with large pharmaceutical companies. even if we are able to commercialize additional product candidates, one or more of our competitors may have brought a competitive product to market earlier than us or may have obtained or obtain patent protection that dominates or adversely affects our activities or products. our ability to compete depends, to a great extent, on how fast we can develop safe and effective product candidates, complete clinical testing and approval processes, and supply commercial quantities of the product to the market. competition among product candidates approved for sale is based on efficacy, safety, reliability, availability, price, patent position, and other factors. 17 table of contents eylea. the following table provides an overview of the competitive landscape for eylea: competitor product/product candidate commercial or development status competitor indication territory lucentis (ranibizumab) approved novartis/genentech wet amd, dme, macular edema following rvo, choroidal neovascularization secondary to pathologic myopia, diabetic retinopathy in patients with dme, and other eye indications worldwide avastin (bevacizumab) (off-label) used to treat wet amd, dme, and macular edema following rvo genentech wet amd, dme, and macular edema following rvo sold worldwide being evaluated in trials in the united kingdom, canada, brazil, germany, and other countries conbercept approved in china for wet amd in development for other eye indications chengdu kanghong pharmaceutical group wet amd china fovista tm , an aptamer directed against pdgf-b in development (phase 3 trials initiated in 2013 evaluating multiple combinations of fovista tm , including lucentis + fovista tm , avastin + fovista tm , and eylea + fovista tm ) ophthotech corporation wet amd rth258 (esba1008), a single chain antibody fragment directed against vegf-a in development (non-inferiority phase 3 trial initiated in 2014 comparing rth258 (esba1008) and eylea) novartis wet amd abicipar pegol (anti-vegf-a-darpin ) in development (phase 2) allergan wet amd and related conditions bi-specific antibody r06867461 in development (phase 1) genentech wet amd lucentis sustained delivery system in development (phase 1) genentech wet amd and related conditions pf582, a biosimilar to lucentis in development (phase 1/2) pfenex inc. wet amd and related conditions the table above is not exhaustive. for additional information regarding the substantial competition eylea faces, see part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to commercialization of eylea - the commercial success of eylea is subject to strong competition " and part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to commercialization of products - our marketed products are subject to significant competition, and our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if any are approved for marketing, may face significant competition. " 18 table of contents zaltrap. the following table provides an overview of the competitive landscape for zaltrap: competitor product/product candidate commercial or development status competitor indication territory avastin ( bevacizumab) approved and launched in 2004 genentech certain cancers worldwide oral medications that target tumor cell growth and new vasculature formation that fuels growth of tumors being sold and marketed pfizer, amgen (together with its partner bayer healthcare), glaxosmithkline, and bayer healthcare certain cancers worldwide other vegf antagonists in various phases of development novartis, amgen, imclone llc/eli lilly, pfizer, astrazeneca, glaxosmithkline, and aveo pharmaceuticals, inc. certain cancers the table above is not exhaustive. for additional information regarding the substantial competition zaltrap faces, see part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to commercialization of products - our marketed products are subject to significant competition, and our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if any are approved for marketing, may face significant competition ." monoclonal antibodies. our clinical candidates in development are all fully human monoclonal antibodies which were generated using our velocimmune technology. our antibody generation technologies and clinical candidates face competition from many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies using various technologies. numerous other companies are developing therapeutic antibody products. companies such as pfizer, johnson &amp; johnson, astrazeneca, amgen, biogen idec, inc., novartis, genentech, bristol-myers squibb, abbvie, and glaxosmithkline have generated therapeutic products that are currently in development or on the market that are derived from recombinant dna that comprise human antibody sequences. astellas has licensed our velocimmune technology as part of their internal antibody development programs. the following table provides an overview of the competitive landscape for our antibody programs that are in late-stage clinical development. regeneron antibody program competitor competitor product/product candidate commercial or development status target praluent (phase 3) target: pcsk9 amgen evolocumab (amg-145) in development (phase 3) antibody against pcsk9 pfizer bococizumab (rn316 / pf-04950615 in development (phase 3) antibody against pcsk9 eli lilly ly3015014 in development (phase 2) antibody against pcsk9 alnylam pharmaceuticals, inc. (in partnership with the medicines company) aln-pcs in development (phase 1) rnai against pcsk9 19 table of contents (continued) regeneron antibody program competitor competitor product/product candidate commercial or development status target sarilumab (phase 3) target: il-6r roche actemra (tocilizumab) approved antibody against il-6r for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis johnson &amp; johnson (in partnership with glaxosmithkline) sirukumab in development (phase 3) antibody against il-6 alder biopharmaceuticals, inc. clazakizumab in development (phase 2) antibody against il-6 ablynx (in partnership with abbvie) alx-0061 in development (phase 2) antibody against il-6r r-pharm olokizumab in development (phase 2) antibody against il-6 pfizer pf-04236921 in development (phase 1/phase 2) antibody against il-6 roche sa 237 in development (phase 1/phase 3) antibody against il-6r dupilumab (phase 2/phase 3) target: il-4r roche lebrikizumab in development (phase 3) antibody against il-13 teva reslizumab in development (phase 3) antibody against il-5 glaxosmithkline mepolizumab in development (phase 3) antibody against il-5 astrazeneca benralizumab in development (phase 3) antibody against il-5r astrazeneca tralokinumab in development (phase 3) antibody against il-13 novartis qbx258 in development (phase 2) fixed dose combination of antibodies against il-4 and il-13 the table above is not exhaustive. for additional information regarding our antibody programs and the substantial competition they face, see "clinical programs" above and part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to commercialization of products - our marketed products are subject to significant competition, and our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if any are approved for marketing, may face significant competition ." other areas. many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are attempting to discover new therapeutics for indications in which we invest substantial time and resources. in these and related areas, intellectual property rights have been sought and certain rights have been granted to competitors and potential competitors of ours, and we may be at a substantial competitive disadvantage in such areas as a result of, among other things, our lack of experience, trained personnel, and expertise. a number of corporate and academic competitors are involved in the discovery and development of novel therapeutics that are the focus of other research or development programs we are now conducting. many firms and entities are engaged in research and development in the areas of cytokines, interleukins, angiogenesis, and muscle conditions. some of these competitors are currently conducting 20 table of contents advanced preclinical and clinical research programs in these areas. these and other competitors may have established substantial intellectual property and other competitive advantages. if any of these or other competitors announces a successful clinical study involving a product that may be competitive with one of our product candidates or the grant of marketing approval by a regulatory agency for a competitive product, such developments may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, cash flows, or future prospects. we also compete with academic institutions, governmental agencies, and other public or private research organizations, which conduct research, seek patent protection, and establish collaborative arrangements for the development and marketing of products that would provide royalties or other consideration for use of their technology. these institutions are becoming more active in seeking patent protection and licensing arrangements to collect royalties or other consideration for use of the technology they have developed. products developed in this manner may compete directly with products we develop. we also compete with others in acquiring technology from these institutions, agencies, and organizations. patents, trademarks, and trade secrets our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain patents, maintain trade secret protection, and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties (see part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to intellectual property and market exclusivity - we may be restricted in our development, manufacturing, and/or commercialization activities by, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed, patents or other proprietary rights of others "). our policy is to file patent applications to protect technology, inventions, and improvements that we consider important to our business and operations. we hold an ownership interest in a number of issued patents in the united states and foreign countries with respect to our products and technologies. in addition, we hold an ownership interest in hundreds of patent applications in the united states and foreign countries. our patent portfolio includes granted patents and pending patent applications covering our velocisuite technologies, including our velocimmune mouse platform which produces fully human monoclonal antibodies. our issued patents covering these technologies generally expire between 2020 and 2027. however, we continue to file patent applications directed to improvements to these technology platforms. our patent portfolio also includes issued patents and pending applications relating to our marketed products, eylea, zaltrap, and arcalyst, and our product candidates in clinical development. these patents cover the proteins and dna encoding the proteins, manufacturing patents, method of use patents, and pharmaceutical compositions, as well as various methods of using the products. for each of eylea, zaltrap, and arcalyst, these patents generally expire between 2020 and 2027. however, the projected patent terms may be subject to extension based on potential patent term extensions in countries where such extensions are available. we also are the nonexclusive licensee of a number of additional patents and patent applications. in december 2011, we and genentech entered into a non-exclusive license and partial settlement agreement relating to ophthalmic sales of eylea in the united states. pursuant to this agreement, we received a non-exclusive license to certain patents relating to vegf receptor proteins, known as the davis-smyth patents, and other technology patents. in may 2013, we entered into an amended and restated non-exclusive license and settlement agreement with genentech; under the amended agreement, we received a worldwide non-exclusive license to the davis-smyth patents, and certain other patents, owned or co-owned by genentech for the prevention or treatment of human eye diseases and eye disorders through administration of eylea to the eye. also in may 2013, we entered into a non-exclusive license and settlement agreement with genentech and sanofi under which we and sanofi received a worldwide non-exclusive license to the davis-smyth patents, and certain other patents, in all indications for human use other than the prevention or treatment of eye diseases and eye disorders through administration to the eye. in july 2008 we entered into an amended and restated non-exclusive license agreement with cellectis s.a. pursuant to which we licensed certain patents and patent applications relating to a process for the specific replacement of a copy of a gene in the receiver genome by homologous recombination. we also have non-exclusive license agreements with amgen and other organizations for patent rights related to arcalyst. patent law relating to the patentability and scope of claims in the biotechnology field is evolving and our patent rights are subject to this additional uncertainty. the degree of patent protection that will be afforded to our products in the united states and other important commercial markets is uncertain and is dependent upon the scope of protection decided upon by the patent offices, courts, and governments in these countries. there is no certainty that our existing patents or others, if obtained, will provide us protection from competition or provide commercial benefit. others may independently develop similar products or processes to those developed by us, duplicate any of our products or processes or, if patents are issued to us, design around any products and processes covered by our patents. we expect to continue, 21 table of contents when appropriate, to file product and process applications with respect to our inventions. however, we may not file any such applications or, if filed, the patents may not be issued. patents issued to or licensed by us may be infringed by the products or processes of others. defense and enforcement of our intellectual property rights is expensive and time consuming, even if the outcome is favorable to us. it is possible that patents issued or licensed to us will be successfully challenged, that a court may find that we are infringing validly issued patents of third parties, or that we may have to alter or discontinue the development of our products or pay licensing fees to take into account patent rights of third parties (see part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to intellectual property and market exclusivity - we may be restricted in our development, manufacturing, and/or commercialization activities by, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed, patents or other proprietary rights of others "). government regulation regulation by government authorities in the united states and foreign countries is a significant factor in the research, development, manufacture, and marketing of eylea, zaltrap, arcalyst, and our product candidates (see part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to commercialization of eylea - we are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight with respect to eylea. if we fail to maintain regulatory compliance for eylea, we may lose marketing approval, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. " and "risks related to the development and approval of our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products - if we do not obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our products and product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, we will not be able to market or sell them, which would materially and negatively impact our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition." ). all of our product candidates will require regulatory approval before they can be commercialized. in particular, human therapeutic products are subject to rigorous preclinical and clinical trials and other pre-market approval requirements by the fda and foreign authorities. many aspects of the structure and substance of the fda and foreign pharmaceutical regulatory practices have been reformed during recent years, and continued reform is under consideration in a number of jurisdictions. the ultimate outcome and impact of such reforms and potential reforms cannot be predicted. the activities required before a product candidate may be marketed in the united states begin with preclinical tests. preclinical tests include laboratory evaluations and animal studies to assess the potential safety and efficacy of the product candidate and its formulations. the results of these studies must be submitted to the fda as part of an ind, which must be reviewed by the fda before proposed clinical testing can begin. typically, clinical testing involves a three-phase process. in phase 1, trials are conducted with a small number of subjects to determine the early safety profile of the product candidate. in phase 2, clinical trials are conducted with subjects afflicted with a specific disease or disorder to provide enough data to evaluate the preliminary safety, tolerability, and efficacy of different potential doses of the product candidate. in phase 3, large-scale clinical trials are conducted with patients afflicted with the specific disease or disorder in order to provide enough data to understand the efficacy and safety profile of the product candidate, as required by the fda. the results of the preclinical and clinical testing of a biologic product candidate are then submitted to the fda in the form of a bla for evaluation to determine whether the product candidate may be approved for commercial sale. in responding to a bla, the fda may grant marketing approval, request additional information, or deny the application. any approval required by the fda for any of our product candidates may not be obtained on a timely basis, or at all. the designation of a clinical trial as being of a particular phase is not necessarily indicative that such a trial will be sufficient to satisfy the parameters of a particular phase, and a clinical trial may contain elements of more than one phase notwithstanding the designation of the trial as being of a particular phase. the results of preclinical studies or early stage clinical trials may not predict long-term safety or efficacy of our compounds when they are tested or used more broadly in humans. approval of a product candidate by comparable regulatory authorities in foreign countries is generally required prior to commencement of marketing of the product in those countries. the approval procedure varies among countries and may involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain such approval may differ from that required for fda approval. various federal, state, and foreign statutes and regulations also govern or influence the research, manufacture, safety, labeling, storage, record keeping, marketing, transport, and other aspects of pharmaceutical product candidates. the lengthy process of seeking these approvals and the compliance with applicable statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial resources. any failure by us or our collaborators or licensees to obtain, or any delay in obtaining, regulatory approvals could adversely affect the manufacturing or marketing of our products and our ability to receive product or royalty revenue. in addition to the foregoing, our present and future business will be subject to regulation under the united states atomic energy act, the clean air act, the clean water act, the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act, the national environmental policy act, the toxic substances control act, the resource conservation and recovery act, national restrictions, and other current and potential future local, state, federal, and foreign regulations. 22 table of contents business segments we manage our business as one segment which includes all activities related to the discovery, development, and commercialization of pharmaceutical products for the treatment of serious medical conditions. employees as of december 31, 2014 , we had approximately 2,925 full-time employees, of whom approximately 490 held a ph.d. and/or m.d., or pharmd degree. we believe that we have been successful in attracting skilled and experienced personnel in a highly competitive environment; however, competition for these personnel is intense. none of our personnel are covered by collective bargaining agreements and our management considers its relations with our employees to be good. corporate information we were incorporated in the state of new york in 1988 and publicly listed in 1991. our principal executive offices are located at 777 old saw mill river road, tarrytown, new york 10591, and our telephone number at that address is (914) 847-7000. we make available free of charge on or through our internet website (http://www.regeneron.com) our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the securities and exchange commission (sec). item 1a. risk factors we operate in an environment that involves a number of significant risks and uncertainties. we caution you to read the following risk factors, which have affected, and/or in the future could affect, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. the risks described below include forward-looking statements, and actual events and our actual results may differ materially from these forward-looking statements. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. furthermore, additional risks and uncertainties are described under other captions in this report and should also be considered by our investors. risks related to commercialization of eylea we are substantially dependent on the success of eylea. if we or bayer healthcare are unable to continue to commercialize eylea, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition will be materially harmed. eylea net sales represent a substantial portion of our revenues and this concentration of our net sales in a single product makes us substantially dependent on that product. for the years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013 , eylea net sales in the united states represented 62% and 67% of our total revenues, respectively. if we were to experience difficulty with the commercialization of eylea in the united states, if bayer healthcare were to experience any difficulty with the commercialization of eylea outside the united states, or if we and bayer healthcare are unable to maintain current marketing approvals of eylea, we may experience a reduction in revenue and may not be able to sustain profitability, and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be materially harmed. we are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight with respect to eylea. if we fail to maintain regulatory compliance for eylea, we may lose marketing approval, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. we are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight with respect to eylea for its currently approved indications in the united states, eu, and other countries where the product is approved. if we fail to maintain regulatory compliance for eylea for its currently approved indications, we may lose marketing approval, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. failure to comply may also subject us to sanctions, product recalls, or withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications. see also "risks related to manufacturing and supply - if we fail to meet the stringent requirements of governmental regulation in the manufacture of drug products or product candidates, we could incur substantial remedial costs, delays in the development or approval of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products and/or in their commercial launch if they obtain regulatory approval, and a reduction in sales " below. 23 table of contents serious complications or side effects in connection with the use of eylea could materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. there are risks inherent in intravitreal injections, including intravitreal injections with eylea, such as intraocular inflammation, sterile and culture positive endophthalmitis, corneal decomposition, retinal detachment, retinal tear, and other side effects, all of which are reported from time to time to the fda. serious complications or serious, unexpected side effects in connection with the use of eylea could materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. our sales of eylea are dependent on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payers, and changes to such reimbursement may materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. our sales in the united states of eylea are dependent, in part, on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payers, including private payer healthcare and insurance programs, health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit management companies, and government programs such as medicare and medicaid. sales of eylea in other countries are dependent, in part, on similar programs in those countries. in the united states, there is an increased focus from the federal government and others on analyzing the impact of various regulatory programs on the federal deficit, which could result in increased pressure on federal programs to reduce costs, including limiting federal healthcare expenditures. economic pressure on state budgets may also have a similar impact. a reduction in the availability or extent of reimbursement from u.s. government programs could have a material adverse effect on the sales of eylea. since eylea is too expensive for most patients to afford without health insurance coverage, if adequate coverage and reimbursement by third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid in the united states, is not available, our ability to successfully commercialize eylea will be materially adversely impacted. our sales and potential profits and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be materially harmed. see also "risks related to commercialization of products - the successful commercialization of our marketed products, as well as our late-stage product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if approved, will depend on obtaining and maintaining coverage and reimbursement for use of these products from third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid in the united states, and these payers may not cover or adequately reimburse for use of our products or may do so at levels that make our products uncompetitive and/or unprofitable, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition " below. the commercial success of eylea is subject to strong competition. the market for eye disease products is very competitive. novartis and genentech are collaborating on the commercialization and further development of a vegf antibody fragment, lucentis , for the treatment of wet amd, macular edema following rvo, dme, visual impairment due to mcnv, diabetic retinopathy in patients with dme, and other eye indications. lucentis was approved by the fda in june 2006 for the treatment of wet amd, in june 2010 for the treatment of macular edema following rvo (including crvo and brvo), in august 2012 for the treatment of dme, and in february 2015 for the treatment of diabetic retinopathy in patients with dme. lucentis was also approved by the ema for wet amd in january 2007, for dme in january 2011, for the treatment of macular edema following rvo (including crvo and brvo) in june 2011, and for mcnv in july 2013. competitors are also exploring the development of a biosimilar version of lucentis ; in particular, pfenex inc. is developing pf582, which is currently in a phase 1b/2a trial in patients with wet amd. other competitive or potentially competitive products include allergan's ozurdex (dexamethasone intravitreal implant) (approved by the fda in june 2009 for the treatment of macular edema following rvo and in september 2014 for the treatment of dme) and alimera sciences' iluvien (fluocinolone acetonide intravitreal implant) (approved by the fda in september 2014 for the treatment of dme in patients who have been previously treated with a course of corticosteroids and did not have a clinically significant rise in intraocular pressure), both of which are intravitreal implants of corticosteroids. many other companies are working on the development of product candidates and extended delivery devices for the potential treatment of wet amd, dme, and rvo, including those that act by blocking vegf and vegf receptors, as well as small interfering ribonucleic acids (sirnas) that modulate gene expression. for example, in january 2012, genentech submitted an ind for such an extended delivery device. novartis is developing esba1008 (rth258), a humanized monoclonal single-chain fv (scfv) antibody fragment targeting vegf-a for wet amd, and initiated a non-inferiority phase 3 trial comparing rth258 (esba1008) and eylea in december 2014. allergan is developing abicipar pegol (an anti-vegf-a darpin ) for wet amd and related conditions and a phase 2 trial has been completed. additionally, companies are developing products (or combinations of products) to treat wet amd that act by blocking vegf and vegf receptors, as well as other targets (for example, pdgf). ophthotech corporation is developing fovista , an aptamer directed against platelet-derived growth factor subunit b (pdgf-b), as a product candidate intended to be used in combination with an anti-vegf therapy in wet amd. in 2013, ophthotech initiated phase 3 trials in amd evaluating multiple combinations of fovista , including lucentis + fovista , avastin + fovista , and eylea + fovista . genentech initiated a phase 1 trial of a bi-specific antibody targeting both vegf and ang2 for wet amd. in addition, ophthalmologists are using with success off-label, third-party repackaged versions of genentech's approved vegf antagonist, avastin , for the treatment of wet amd, dme, and rvo. the relatively low cost of therapy with repackaged avastin 24 table of contents in patients with wet amd presents a significant competitive challenge in this indication. competitors (including amgen) are also developing a biosimilar version of avastin . long-term, controlled clinical trials comparing lucentis to avastin in the treatment of wet amd are being conducted. one-year data from the comparison of age-related macular degeneration treatments trial (catt) were reported in april 2011 and indicated that avastin dosed monthly was non-inferior to lucentis dosed monthly in the primary efficacy endpoint of mean visual acuity gain at 52 weeks. two-year data from catt were reported in april 2012 and indicated that monthly avastin was non-inferior to monthly lucentis in mean visual acuity gain; as-needed dosing was not non-inferior to monthly dosing. avastin is also being evaluated in eye diseases in trials that have been initiated in the united kingdom, canada, brazil, mexico, germany, israel, and other countries. furthermore, lucentis and off-label use of repackaged avastin present significant competitive challenges as doctors and patients have had significant experience using these medicines. moreover, the reported results of the catt study, combined with the relatively low cost of repackaged avastin in treating patients with wet amd, may well exacerbate the competitive challenge which eylea faces in this or other eye indications for which it may be approved. finally, zaltrap has not been manufactured and formulated for use in intravitreal injections, and while we believe that zaltrap would not be well tolerated if administered directly to the eye, there is a risk that third parties may attempt to repackage zaltrap for off-label use and sale for the treatment of wet amd and other diseases of the eye, which would present a potential low-cost competitive threat to eylea for its approved indications. see also "risks related to commercialization of products - we may be unsuccessful in continuing the commercialization of our marketed products or in commercializing our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if approved, which would materially and adversely affect our business, profitability, and future prospects " below. our product sales could be reduced by imports from countries where our products are available at lower prices. our sales of products in the united states may be reduced if our products are imported into the united states from lower priced markets, whether legally or illegally. under our arrangement with bayer healthcare, pricing and reimbursement for eylea outside the united states is the responsibility of bayer healthcare. prices for eylea in territories outside the united states will be based on local market economics and competition and are likely to differ from country to country. in the united states, prices for pharmaceuticals are generally higher than in the bordering nations of canada and mexico and our sales of eylea in the united states may be reduced if eylea is marketed in those nations and imported into the united states. in addition, there have been proposals to legalize the import of pharmaceuticals from outside the united states. if such legislation were enacted, our future revenues could be reduced. risks related to the development and approval of our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products if we do not obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our products and product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, we will not be able to market or sell them, which would materially and negatively impact our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. we cannot sell or market products without regulatory approval. if we do not maintain regulatory approval for our marketed products, and obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, or new indications of our marketed products, the value of our company and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition will be materially harmed. if we are unable to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, or if we are materially delayed in doing so, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed. in addition, if we fail to maintain regulatory approval for eylea's currently approved indications, we may lose marketing approval and the ability to generate eylea product sales revenue, which would materially and negatively impact our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval for drug products is costly, time-consuming, and highly uncertain. in the united states, we must obtain and maintain approval from the fda for each drug we intend to sell. obtaining fda approval is typically a lengthy and expensive process, and approval is highly uncertain. we cannot predict with certainty if or when we might submit for regulatory approval any of our product candidates currently under development. any approvals we may obtain may not cover all of the clinical indications for which we are seeking approval. also, an approval might contain significant limitations in the form of narrow indications, warnings, precautions, or contra-indications with respect to conditions of use. the fda has substantial discretion in the approval process (including with respect to setting specific conditions for submission) and may either refuse to accept an application for substantive review or may form the opinion after review of an application that the application is insufficient to allow approval of a product candidate. if the fda does not accept our application for review or approve our application, it may require that we conduct additional clinical, preclinical, or manufacturing validation studies and submit the data before it will reconsider our application. depending on the extent of these or any other studies that might be required, approval of any applications that we submit may be delayed significantly, or we may be required to expend more resources. it is also possible that any such additional studies, if performed and completed, may not be considered sufficient by the fda to make our applications approvable. if any of these outcomes occur, we may be forced to delay or abandon our applications for approval. 25 table of contents the fda may also require us to conduct additional clinical trials after granting approval of a product. its ability to do so has been enhanced by the food and drug administration amendments act of 2007, pursuant to which the fda has the explicit authority to require postmarketing studies (also referred to as post-approval or phase 4 studies), labeling changes based on new safety information, and compliance with fda-approved risk evaluation and mitigation strategies. post-approval studies, whether conducted by us or by others and whether mandated by regulatory agencies or voluntary, and other data about our marketed products (or data about products similar to our marketed products that implicate an entire class of products or are perceived to do so) may result in changes in product labeling, restrictions on use, product withdrawal or recall, loss of approval, or lower sales of our products. according to the fda policies under the prescription drug user fee act, the fda system of review times for new drugs includes standard review and priority review. standard review can be accomplished in a ten-month time frame from the time the application is filed by the fda (filing date), which typically occurs approximately 60 days following submission of the application by the applicant. the fda has stated the goal to act on 90% of standard new molecular entity (nme) new drug application (nda) and original bla submissions within 10 months of the filing date. a priority review designation is given to drugs that treat a serious condition and offer major advances in treatment, or provide a treatment where no adequate therapy exists, and may also be afforded to a human drug application based on a priority review voucher. the fda has stated the goal to act on 90% of priority nme nda and original bla submissions within 6 months of the filing date. however, the fda's review goals are subject to change and the duration of the fda's review depends on a number of factors, including the number and types of other applications that are submitted to the fda around the same time period or are pending. even if any of our applications receives a priority review designation (including based on the rare pediatric disease priority review voucher, which we and sanofi used in connection with the bla submission for praluent), we may not ultimately be able to obtain approval of our application within a time frame consistent with the fda's stated review goals or at all, and such designation may not actually lead to a faster development or regulatory review or approval process. the fda enforces good clinical practices (gcps) and other regulations through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, clinical research organizations (cros), principal investigators, and trial sites. if we or any of the third parties conducting our clinical studies are determined to have failed to fully comply with gcps, the study protocol or applicable regulations, the clinical data generated in those studies may be deemed unreliable. this could result in non-approval of our product candidates by the fda, or we or the fda may decide to conduct additional audits or require additional clinical studies, which would delay our development programs, require us to incur additional costs, and could substantially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. before approving a new drug or biologic product, the fda requires that the facilities at which the product will be manufactured or advanced through the supply chain be in compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cgmp, requirements and regulations governing the manufacture, shipment, and storage of the product. these cgmp requirements and regulations are not prescriptive instructions on how to manufacture products, but rather a series of principles that must be observed during manufacturing; as a result, their implementation may not be clearly delineated and may present a challenging task. manufacturing product candidates in compliance with these regulatory requirements is complex, time-consuming, and expensive. to be successful, our products must be manufactured in compliance with regulatory requirements, and at competitive costs. if we or any of our product collaborators, or third-party manufacturers, product packagers, labelers, or other parties performing steps in the supply chain are unable to maintain regulatory compliance, the fda can impose regulatory sanctions, including, among other things, refusal to approve a pending application for a new drug or biologic product, or revocation of a pre-existing approval. as a result, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed. in addition to the fda and other regulatory agency regulations in the united states, we are subject to a variety of foreign regulatory requirements governing human clinical trials, manufacturing, marketing and approval of drugs, and commercial sale and distribution of drugs in foreign countries. the foreign regulatory approval process is similarly likely to be a lengthy and expensive process, the result of which is highly uncertain, and foreign regulatory requirements include all of the risks associated with fda approval as well as country specific regulations. in addition, actions by a regulatory agency in a country or region with respect to a product candidate may have an impact on the approval process for that product candidate in another country or region. foreign regulatory authorities often also have the authority to require post-approval studies, which involve various risks similar to those described above. whether or not we obtain fda approval for a product in the united states, we must obtain approval of the product by the comparable regulatory authorities in foreign countries before we can conduct clinical trials of or market that product or any other product in those countries. 26 table of contents preclinical and clinical studies required for our product candidates and new indications of our marketed products are expensive and time-consuming, and their outcome is highly uncertain. if any such studies are delayed or yield unfavorable results, regulatory approval for our product candidates or new indications of our marketed products may be delayed or become unobtainable. as described above, we must conduct extensive testing of our product candidates and new indications of our marketed products before we can obtain regulatory approval to market and sell them. we need to conduct both preclinical animal testing and human clinical trials. conducting such studies is a lengthy, time-consuming, and expensive process. these tests and trials may not achieve favorable results for many reasons, including, among others, failure of the product candidate to demonstrate safety or efficacy, the development of serious or life-threatening adverse events (or side effects) caused by or connected with exposure to the product candidate, difficulty in enrolling and maintaining subjects in a clinical trial, lack of sufficient supplies of the product candidate or comparator drug, and the failure of clinical investigators, trial monitors, contractors, consultants, or trial subjects to comply with the trial plan, protocol, or applicable regulations related to good laboratory practices (glps) or gcps. a clinical trial may fail because it did not include and retain a sufficient number of patients to detect the endpoint being measured or reach statistical significance. a clinical trial may also fail because the dose(s) of the investigational drug included in the trial were either too low or too high to determine the optimal effect of the investigational drug in the disease setting. we will need to reevaluate any drug candidate that does not test favorably and either conduct new studies, which are expensive and time consuming, or abandon that drug development program. if preclinical testing yields unfavorable results, product candidates may not advance to clinical trials. the failure of clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of our clinical candidates for the desired indication(s) would preclude the successful development of those candidates for such indication(s), in which event our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed. successful development of our current and future product candidates is uncertain. only a small minority of all research and development programs ultimately result in commercially successful drugs. clinical trials may not demonstrate statistically sufficient effectiveness and safety to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for these product candidates in these indications. many companies in the biopharmaceutical industry, including our company, have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, even after promising results have been obtained in earlier trials. in a number of instances, we have terminated the development of product candidates due to a lack of or only modest effectiveness. for example, a randomized, double-blind phase 3 trial (venice) that evaluated zaltrap as a first-line treatment for metastatic androgen-independent prostate cancer in combination with docetaxel/prednisone did not meet the pre-specified criterion of improvement in overall survival in april 2011. moreover, even if we obtain positive results from preclinical testing or clinical trials, we may not achieve the same success in future trials, or the fda and analogous foreign regulatory authorities may deem the results insufficient for an approval. for instance, based on the results of three phase 3 studies, we submitted a supplemental bla filing to the fda seeking approval of arcalyst for the prevention of gout flares in patients initiating uric acid-lowering drug therapy. in may 2012, the arthritis advisory committee of the fda voted to recommend against approval of arcalyst for the prevention of gout flares in patients initiating uric acid-lowering drug therapy and, in july 2012, we received a complete response letter from the fda requesting additional information, including clinical data, as well as additional cmc information related to a proposed new dosage form. we have discontinued development of arcalyst for gout. many of our clinical trials are conducted under the oversight of independent data monitoring committees (idmcs). these independent oversight bodies are made up of external experts who review the progress of ongoing clinical trials, including available safety and efficacy data, and make recommendations concerning a trial's continuation, modification, or termination based on interim, unblinded data. any of our ongoing clinical trials may be discontinued or amended in response to recommendations made by responsible idmcs based on their review of such interim trial results. for example, in september 2009, a phase 3 trial that was evaluating zaltrap as a first-line treatment for metastatic pancreatic cancer in combination with gemcitabine was discontinued at the recommendation of an idmc after a planned analysis of interim efficacy data determined that the trial would not meet its efficacy endpoint. the recommended termination of any of our ongoing late-stage clinical trials by an idmc could negatively impact the future development of our product candidate(s), and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed. we are studying our antibody candidates in a wide variety of indications in clinical trials. many of these trials are exploratory studies designed to evaluate the safety profile of these compounds and to identify what diseases and uses, if any, are best suited for these product candidates. these product candidates may not demonstrate the requisite efficacy and/or safety profile to support continued development for some or all of the indications that are being, or are planned to be, studied, which would diminish our clinical "pipeline" and could negatively affect our future prospects and the value of our company. 27 table of contents serious complications or side effects in connection with the use of our products and in clinical trials for our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products could cause our regulatory approvals to be revoked or limited or lead to delay or discontinuation of development of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, which could severely harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. during the conduct of clinical trials, patients report changes in their health, including illnesses, injuries, and discomforts, to their study doctor. often, it is not possible to determine whether or not the drug candidate being studied caused these conditions. various illnesses, injuries, and discomforts have been reported from time-to-time during clinical trials of our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products. it is possible that as we test our drug candidates or new indications in larger, longer, and more extensive clinical programs, or as use of these drugs becomes more widespread if they receive regulatory approval, illnesses, injuries, and discomforts that were observed in earlier trials, as well as conditions that did not occur or went undetected in previous trials, will be reported by patients. many times, side effects are only detectable after investigational drugs are tested in large-scale, phase 3 clinical trials or, in some cases, after they are made available to patients after approval. if additional clinical experience indicates that any of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products has many side effects or causes serious or life-threatening side effects, the development of the product candidate may be delayed or fail, or, if the product candidate has received regulatory approval, such approval may be revoked, which would severely harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. eylea is being studied in diseases of the eye in addition to those covered by its currently approved indications. there are many potential safety concerns associated with significant blockade of vegf that may limit our ability to further successfully develop and/or commercialize eylea and zaltrap. these serious and potentially life-threatening risks, based on clinical and preclinical experience of vegf inhibitors, include bleeding, intestinal perforation, hypertension, proteinuria, congestive heart failure, heart attack, and stroke. in addition, patients given infusions of any protein, including zaltrap delivered through intravenous administration, may develop severe hypersensitivity reactions or infusion reactions. other vegf blockers have reported side effects that became evident only after large-scale trials or after marketing approval when large numbers of patients were treated. there are risks inherent in the intravitreal administration of drugs like eylea, which can cause injury to the eye and other complications. for example, in our phase 3 trials of eylea in wet amd, the most frequent ocular adverse events were conjunctival hemorrhage, macular degeneration, eye pain, retinal hemorrhage, and vitreous floaters. these and other complications or side effects could harm the development and/or commercialization of eylea or zaltrap. we and sanofi are conducting a global development program, currently in phase 3, studying praluent, our pcsk9 antibody for the reduction of ldl cholesterol, as discussed above in part i, item 1. "business - late-stage antibody-based clinical programs." as part of this development program, we and sanofi collect adverse events and report them to the fda and foreign regulatory authorities. as previously reported, in ten phase 3 odyssey studies, the most common adverse events were nasopharyngitis and upper respiratory tract infection, which were generally balanced between treatment groups. injection site reactions were more frequent in the praluent group compared to placebo. serious adverse events and deaths were generally balanced between treatment groups as were other key adverse events, including musculoskeletal, neurocognitive, and liver-related events. we and sanofi were advised by the fda that it had become aware of neurocognitive adverse events in the pcsk9 inhibitor class. neurocognitive adverse events have also been associated with the use of statins for lowering ldl cholesterol. the fda had requested that we and sanofi make an assessment of potential neurocognitive adverse events across the global development program for praluent, especially in the longer-term studies. additionally, the fda requested that we address the feasibility of incorporating neurocognitive testing into at least a subset of patients in our odyssey outcomes trial or other long-term phase 3 trial(s). while we have reported, based on analyses conducted to date, that neurocognitive adverse events were generally balanced between treatment groups in our phase 3 studies, if this or another adverse event signal is detected in future analyses or in subsequent data, the possible approval of praluent may be delayed or fail, or its commercial value diminished, which could severely harm our future prospects. we have studied fasinumab in a variety of pain indications, including osteoarthritis of the knee. in december 2010, the fda placed fasinumab on clinical hold after a case of rapidly progressive osteoarthritis leading to joint replacement was seen in another company's anti-ngf program due to the fda's concern that this case was suggestive of a class effect. in december 2012, the fda removed the clinical hold on fasinumab after reviewing our proposed phase 3 program in osteoarthritis. however, shortly thereafter, fasinumab was placed on partial clinical hold as a result of preclinical data from other investigational agents targeting ngf in development. there are currently no trials with fasinumab that are either enrolling or treating patients. discussions with the fda about fasinumab are expected to continue. 28 table of contents our product candidates in development are recombinant proteins that could cause an immune response, resulting in the creation of harmful or neutralizing antibodies against the therapeutic protein. in addition to the safety, efficacy, manufacturing, and regulatory hurdles faced by our product candidates, the administration of recombinant proteins frequently causes an immune response, resulting in the creation of antibodies against the therapeutic protein. the antibodies can have no effect or can totally neutralize the effectiveness of the protein, or require that higher doses be used to obtain a therapeutic effect. in some cases, the antibody can cross-react with the patient's own proteins, resulting in an "auto-immune" type disease. whether antibodies will be created can often not be predicted from preclinical or clinical experiments, and their detection or appearance is often delayed, so neutralizing antibodies may be detected at a later date, in some cases even after pivotal clinical trials have been completed. we may be unable to formulate or manufacture our product candidates in a way that is suitable for clinical or commercial use, which would delay or prevent continued development of such candidates and/or receipt of regulatory approval or commercial sale, which could materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. if we are unable to continue to develop suitable product formulations or manufacturing processes to support large-scale clinical testing of our product candidates, including our antibody candidates, we may be unable to supply necessary materials for our clinical trials, which would delay or prevent the development of our product candidates. similarly, if we are unable, directly or through our collaborators or third parties, to supply sufficient quantities of our products or develop formulations of our product candidates suitable for commercial use, we will be unable to obtain regulatory approval for those product candidates. risks related to intellectual property and market exclusivity if we cannot protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets or our patents are insufficient to protect our proprietary rights, our business and competitive position will be harmed. our business requires using sensitive and proprietary technology and other information that we protect as trade secrets. we seek to prevent improper disclosure of these trade secrets through confidentiality agreements. if our trade secrets are improperly disclosed, by our own employees, our collaborators or otherwise, it would help our competitors and adversely affect our business. we will be able to protect our proprietary rights only to the extent that our proprietary technologies and other information are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. the patent position of biotechnology companies, including our company, involves complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, enforceability cannot be predicted with certainty. our patents may be challenged, invalidated, held to be unenforceable, or circumvented. patent applications filed outside the united states may be challenged by other parties, for example, by filing an opposition. such opposition proceedings are increasingly common in the eu and are costly to defend. for example, our european patent no. 1,360,287 has been the subject of opposition proceedings in the european patent office, as described in part i, item 3. "legal proceedings" of this report. we have pending patent applications in the united states patent and trademark office, the european patent office, and the patent offices of other foreign jurisdictions, and it is likely that we will need to defend patents from challenges by others from time to time in the future. certain of our u.s. patents may also be challenged by parties who file a request for post-grant review under the america invents act of 2011. we expect that post-grant review proceedings will become common in the united states and will be costly to defend. our patent rights may not provide us with a proprietary position or competitive advantages against competitors. furthermore, even if the outcome is favorable to us, the enforcement of our intellectual property rights can be extremely expensive and time consuming. we may be restricted in our development, manufacturing, and/or commercialization activities by patents or other proprietary rights of others, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed such patents or rights. our commercial success depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of others. other parties may allege that they own blocking patents to our products in clinical development or even to products that have received regulatory approval and are being or have been commercialized, either because they claim to hold proprietary rights to the composition of a product or the way it is manufactured or the way it is used. moreover, other parties may allege that they have blocking patents to antibody products made using our velocimmune technology, either because of the way the antibodies are discovered or produced or because of a proprietary composition covering an antibody or the antibody's target. we have been in the past, are currently, and may in the future be involved in patent litigation and other proceedings involving our patents. for example, we are currently parties to patent infringement proceedings relating to our european patent no. 1,360,287 and our u.s. patent no. 8,502,018, both of which concern genetically altered mice capable of producing chimeric antibodies that are part human and part mouse, as described in part i, item 3. "legal proceedings" of this report. in addition, we are currently parties to patent infringement proceedings initiated by amgen against us and sanofi relating to praluent , the antibody to pcsk9 for ldl cholesterol reduction we are jointly developing with sanofi, as described in part i, item 3. "legal proceedings" of this report. we are aware of additional patents and pending applications owned by others that claim antibodies to pcsk9 and 29 table of contents methods of treating hypercholesterolemia with such antibodies. we are also aware of patents and pending applications owned by others that respectively claim antibodies to il-6r and il-4r and methods of treating rheumatoid arthritis and uveitis and atopic dermatitis and asthma with such antibodies. in addition to praluent, our late-stage antibody-based pipeline includes sarilumab, an antibody to il-6r, for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and non-infectious uveitis; and dupilumab, an antibody to il-4r, for the treatment of atopic dermatitis, asthma, chronic sinusitis with nasal polyps, and eosinophilic esophagitis. although we do not believe that any of our late-stage antibody product candidates infringes any valid claim in these patents or patent applications, these other parties could initiate a lawsuit for patent infringement and assert their patents are valid and cover our late-stage antibody product candidates, similar to the patent infringement proceedings initiated by amgen referred to above. we are also aware of a u.s. patent jointly owned by genentech and city of hope relating to the production of recombinant antibodies in host cells. we currently produce our antibody product candidates using recombinant antibodies from host cells and may choose to produce additional antibody product candidates in this manner. none of arcalyst, zaltrap, or eylea is a recombinant antibody. if any of our antibody product candidates are produced in a manner subject to valid claims in the genentech patent, then we may need to obtain a license from genentech, should one be available. genentech has licensed this patent to several different companies under confidential license agreements. if we desire a license for any of our antibody product candidates and are unable to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms or at all, we may be restricted in our ability to make recombinant antibodies in, or to import them into, the united states. further, we are aware of a number of patent applications of others that, if granted with claims as currently drafted, may cover our current or planned activities. it could be determined that our products and/or actions in manufacturing or selling our product candidates infringe such patents. patent holders could assert claims against us for damages and seek to prevent us from manufacturing, selling, or developing our drug candidates, and a court may find that we are infringing validly issued patents of others. in the event that the manufacture, use, or sale of any of our drug candidates, or our other late-stage product candidates, infringes on the patents or violates other proprietary rights of others, we may be prevented from pursuing product development, manufacturing, and commercialization of those drugs and may be required to pay costly damages. in addition, in the event that we assert our patent rights against other parties that we believe are infringing our patent rights, such parties may challenge the validity of our patents and we may become the target of litigation, which may result in an outcome that is unfavorable to us. any of these adverse developments may materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. in any event, legal disputes are likely to be costly and time consuming to defend. we seek to obtain licenses to patents when, in our judgment, such licenses are needed or advisable. if any licenses are required, we may not be able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. the failure to obtain any such license could prevent us from developing or commercializing any one or more of our product candidates, which could severely harm our business. loss or limitation of patent rights, and new regulatory pathways for biosimilar competition, could reduce the duration of market exclusivity for our products. in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, the majority of an innovative product's commercial value is usually realized during the period in which it has market exclusivity. in the united states and some other countries, when market exclusivity expires and generic versions of a product are approved and marketed, there usually are very substantial and rapid declines in the product's sales. if our late-stage product candidates or other clinical candidates are approved for marketing in the united states or elsewhere, market exclusivity for those products will generally be based upon patent rights and/or certain regulatory forms of exclusivity. as described above under " if we cannot protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets or our patents are insufficient to protect our proprietary rights, our business and competitive position will be harmed, " the scope and enforceability of our patent rights may vary from country to country. the failure to obtain patent and other intellectual property rights, or limitations on the use, or the loss, of such rights could materially harm us. absent patent protection or regulatory exclusivity for our products, it is possible, both in the united states and elsewhere, that generic and/or biosimilar versions of those products may be approved and marketed, which would likely result in substantial and rapid reductions in revenues from sales of those products. under the federal patient protection and affordable care act, or ppaca, enacted in 2010, there is now a new, abbreviated path in the united states for regulatory approval of biosimilar versions of biological products. the ppaca provides a regulatory mechanism that allows for fda approval of biologic drugs that are similar to (but not generic copies of) innovative drugs on the basis of less extensive data than is required by a full bla. under this new regulation, an application for approval of a biosimilar may be filed four years after approval of the innovator product. however, qualified innovative biological products will receive 12 years of regulatory exclusivity, meaning that the fda may not approve a biosimilar version until 12 years after the innovative biological product was first approved by the fda. however, the term of regulatory exclusivity may not remain at 12 years in the united states and could be shortened. the increased likelihood of biosimilar competition has increased the risk of loss of innovators' market exclusivity. due to this risk, and uncertainties regarding patent protection, if our late-stage product candidates or other clinical candidates are approved 30 table of contents for marketing, it is not possible to predict the length of market exclusivity for a particular product with certainty based solely on the expiration of the relevant patent(s) or the current forms of regulatory exclusivity. it is also not possible to predict changes in united states regulatory law that might reduce biological product regulatory exclusivity. the loss of market exclusivity for a product would likely materially and negatively affect revenues from product sales of that product and thus our financial results and condition. risks related to manufacturing and supply we rely on limited internal and contracted manufacturing and supply chain capacity, which could result in our being unable to continue to successfully commercialize eylea, to commercialize our other product candidates or other indications for our marketed products if they receive regulatory approval, and to advance our clinical pipeline. our manufacturing facility would be inadequate to produce the active pharmaceutical ingredients of (a) eylea, zaltrap, and arcalyst, and (b) our antibody product candidates in sufficient clinical quantities if our clinical pipeline advances as planned. in addition to expanding our internal capacity, we intend to rely on our corporate collaborators, as well as contract manufacturers, to produce commercial quantities of drug material needed for commercialization of our products to the extent such quantities are not manufactured at our own facility. as we increase our production in anticipation of potential regulatory approval for our late-stage antibody product candidates, our current manufacturing capacity will likely not be sufficient, and we may depend on our collaborators or contract manufacturers, to produce adequate quantities of drug material for both commercial and clinical purposes. we rely entirely on other parties and our collaborators for filling and finishing services. generally, in order for other parties to perform any step in the manufacturing and supply chain, we must transfer technology to the other party, which can be time consuming and may not be successfully accomplished without considerable cost and expense, or at all. we will have to depend on these other parties to perform effectively on a timely basis and to comply with regulatory requirements. if for any reason they are unable to do so, and as a result we are unable to directly or through other parties manufacture and supply sufficient commercial and clinical quantities of our products on acceptable terms, or if we should encounter delays or other difficulties in our relationships with our corporate collaborators, contract manufacturers, or other parties involved in our supply chain which adversely affect the timely manufacture and supply of our products or product candidates, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed. expanding our manufacturing capacity will be costly and we may be unsuccessful in doing so in a timely manner, which could delay or prevent the launch and successful commercialization of our marketed products and late-stage product candidates or other indications for our marketed products if they are approved for marketing and could jeopardize our current and future clinical development programs. we have commenced construction of additional manufacturing space at our rensselaer, new york site to increase our manufacturing capacity. in addition, we have acquired and are renovating a 400,000 square foot facility in limerick, ireland to expand our manufacturing capacity to support our global supply chain. in the future, we may lease, operate, purchase, or construct additional facilities to conduct expanded manufacturing activities. expanding our manufacturing capacity to supply commercial quantities of the active pharmaceutical ingredients for our marketed products and our late-stage product candidates if they are approved for marketing, and to supply clinical drug material to support the continued growth of our clinical programs, will require substantial additional expenditures and various regulatory approvals and permits. in addition, the limerick, ireland facility remains subject to securing certain permits from the local government, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain the remaining required permits in the contemplated timeframe, or at all. further, we will need to hire and train significant numbers of employees and managerial personnel to staff our expanding manufacturing and supply chain operations. start-up costs can be large, and scale-up entails significant risks related to process development and manufacturing yields. in addition, we may face difficulties or delays in developing or acquiring the necessary production equipment and technology to manufacture sufficient quantities of our product candidates at reasonable costs and in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. the fda and analogous foreign regulatory authorities must determine that our existing and any expanded manufacturing facilities comply, or continue to comply, with cgmp requirements for both clinical and commercial production and license them, or continue to license them, accordingly, and such facilities must also comply with applicable environmental, safety, and other governmental permitting requirements. we may not successfully expand or establish sufficient manufacturing capabilities or manufacture our products economically or in compliance with cgmps and other regulatory requirements, and we and our collaborators may not be able to build or procure additional capacity in the required timeframe to meet commercial demand for our late-stage product candidates if they receive regulatory approval, and to continue to meet the requirements of our clinical programs. this would interfere with our efforts to successfully commercialize eylea, zaltrap, and arcalyst and could also delay or require us to discontinue one or more of our clinical development programs. as a result, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition could be materially harmed. 31 table of contents our ability to manufacture our products may be impaired if any of our manufacturing activities, or the activities of third parties involved in our manufacture and supply chain, are found to infringe patents of others. our ability to continue to manufacture eylea, zaltrap, and arcalyst in our rensselaer, new york facilities and, in the future, our ability to manufacture our marketed products at additional facilities, or to utilize third parties to produce our products, to supply raw materials or other products, or to perform fill/finish services or other steps in our manufacture and supply chain, depends on our and their ability to operate without infringing the patents or other intellectual property rights of others. other parties may allege that our manufacturing activities, or the activities of third parties involved in our manufacture and supply chain, infringe patents or other intellectual property rights. a judicial decision in favor of one or more parties making such allegations could preclude the manufacture of our products to which those intellectual property rights apply, which could materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. if sales of eylea and zaltrap do not meet the levels currently expected, or if the launch of any of our product candidates is delayed or unsuccessful, we may face costs related to excess inventory or unused capacity at our manufacturing facilities and at the facilities of third parties. we have large-scale manufacturing operations in rensselaer, new york. we use our facilities to produce bulk product of eylea for its currently approved indications, bulk product of zaltrap for the treatment of patients with mcrc that is resistant to or has progressed following an oxaliplatin-containing regimen, bulk product of arcalyst for the treatment of caps, and clinical and preclinical candidates for ourselves and our collaborations. we also plan to use such facilities to produce bulk product for commercial supply of new indications of our marketed products and new product candidates if they are approved for marketing. if our clinical candidates are discontinued or their clinical development is delayed, if the launch of new indications for our marketed products or new product candidates is delayed or does not occur, or if such products are launched and the launch is unsuccessful or the product is subsequently recalled or marketing approval is rescinded, we may have to absorb one hundred percent of related overhead costs and inefficiencies, as well as similar costs of third-party contract manufacturers performing services for us. in addition, if we experience excess inventory, it may be necessary to write down or even write off such excess inventory, which could adversely affect our operating results. third-party service or supply failures, or other failures, business interruptions, or other disasters affecting our manufacturing facilities in rensselaer, new york or the facilities of any other party participating in the supply chain, would adversely affect our ability to supply our products. we currently manufacture all of our bulk drug materials at our manufacturing facilities in rensselaer, new york. we would be unable to manufacture these materials if our rensselaer facilities were to cease production due to regulatory requirements or actions, business interruptions, labor shortages or disputes, contaminations, fire, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, or other problems. many of our products and product candidates are very difficult to manufacture. as our products and product candidates are biologics, they require processing steps that are more difficult than those required for most chemical pharmaceuticals. accordingly, multiple steps are needed to control the manufacturing processes. problems with these manufacturing processes, even minor deviations from the normal process or from the materials used in the manufacturing process (which may not be detectable by us in a timely manner), could lead to product defects or manufacturing failures, resulting in lot failures, product recalls, product liability claims, and insufficient inventory. also, the complexity of our manufacturing process may make it difficult, time-consuming, and expensive to transfer our technology to our corporate collaborators or contract manufacturers. also, certain raw materials or other products necessary for the manufacture and formulation of eylea, zaltrap, arcalyst, and our product candidates, some of which are difficult to source, are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. in addition, we rely on certain third parties to perform filling, finishing, distribution, laboratory testing, and other services related to the manufacture of eylea, zaltrap, arcalyst, and our product candidates, and to supply various raw materials and other products. we would be unable to obtain these raw materials, other products, or services for an indeterminate period of time if any of these third parties were to cease or interrupt production or otherwise fail to supply these materials, products, or services to us for any reason, including due to regulatory requirements or actions (including recalls), adverse financial developments at or affecting the supplier, failure by the supplier to comply with cgmps, contamination, business interruptions, or labor shortages or disputes. in any such circumstances, we may not be able to engage a backup or alternative supplier or service provider in a timely manner or at all. this, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our ability to manufacture or supply eylea, zaltrap, arcalyst, and our product candidates, which could materially and adversely affect our business and future prospects. certain of the raw materials required in the manufacture and the formulation of our product candidates may be derived from biological sources, including mammalian tissues, bovine serum, and human serum albumin. there are certain european regulatory 32 table of contents restrictions on using these biological source materials. if we are required to substitute for these sources to comply with european regulatory requirements, our clinical development activities may be delayed or interrupted. if we fail to meet the stringent requirements of governmental regulation in the manufacture of drug products or product candidates, we could incur substantial remedial costs, delays in the development or approval of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products and/or in their commercial launch if they obtain regulatory approval, and a reduction in sales. we and our third-party providers are required to maintain compliance with cgmps, and are subject to inspections by the fda or comparable agencies in other jurisdictions to confirm such compliance. changes of suppliers or modifications of methods of manufacturing may require amending our application(s) to the fda or such comparable foreign agencies and acceptance of the change by the fda or such comparable foreign agencies prior to release of product(s). because we produce multiple products and product candidates at our facility in rensselaer, new york, including eylea, zaltrap, and arcalyst, there are increased risks associated with cgmp compliance. our inability, or the inability of our third-party fill/finish or other service providers, to demonstrate ongoing cgmp compliance could require us to engage in lengthy and expensive remediation efforts, withdraw or recall product, halt or interrupt clinical trials, and/or interrupt commercial supply of any marketed products, and could also delay or prevent our obtaining regulatory approval for our late-stage product candidates or new indications for our marketed products. any delay, interruption, or other issue that arises in the manufacture, fill/finish, packaging, or storage of any drug product or product candidate as a result of a failure of our facilities or the facilities or operations of third parties to pass any regulatory agency inspection or maintain cgmp compliance could significantly impair our ability to develop, obtain approval for, and successfully commercialize our products, which would substantially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. any finding of non-compliance could also increase our costs, cause us to delay the development of our product candidates, result in delay in our obtaining, or our not obtaining, regulatory approval of product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, and cause us to lose revenue from any marketed products, which could be seriously detrimental to our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. risks related to commercialization of products we may be unsuccessful in continuing the commercialization of our marketed products or in commercializing our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if approved, which would materially and adversely affect our business, profitability, and future prospects. even if clinical trials demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of any of our product candidates for a specific disease and the necessary regulatory approvals are obtained, the commercial success of any of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products will depend upon, among other things, their acceptance by patients, the medical community, and third-party payers and on our and our collaborators' ability to successfully manufacture, market and distribute those products in substantial commercial quantities or to establish and manage the required infrastructure to do so, including large-scale information technology systems and a large-scale distribution network. establishing and maintaining sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities are expensive and time-consuming. even if we obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates or new indications, if they are not successfully commercialized, we will not be able to recover the significant investment we have made in developing such products and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be severely harmed. the commercial success of our products may also be adversely affected by guidelines or recommendations to healthcare providers, administrators, payers, and patient communities that result in decreased use of our products. such guidelines or recommendations may be published not only by governmental agencies, but also professional societies, practice management groups, private foundations, and other interested parties. our product candidates are delivered either by intravenous infusion or by intravitreal or subcutaneous injections, which are generally less well received by patients than tablet or capsule delivery and this could adversely affect the commercial success of those products if they receive marketing approval. currently, we have three marketed products, eylea, zaltrap, and arcalyst. while we have established our own sales and marketing organization for eylea in the united states for its currently approved indications, our commercialization experience is still relatively limited and we have no sales, marketing, commercial, or distribution capabilities outside the united states. in addition, eylea faces intense competition from lucentis and from off-label use of repackaged avastin , both of which have been on the market for a number of years and, potentially, from new competitive products currently in clinical development. we expect that the continued commercial success of eylea will depend on many factors, including the following: effectiveness of the commercial strategy in and outside the united states for the marketing of eylea, including pricing strategy and the continued effectiveness of efforts to obtain, and the timing of obtaining, adequate third-party reimbursements; 33 table of contents maintaining and successfully monitoring commercial manufacturing arrangements for eylea with third parties who perform fill/finish or other steps in the manufacture of eylea to ensure that they meet our standards and those of regulatory authorities, including the fda, which extensively regulate and monitor pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities; our ability to meet the demand for commercial supplies of eylea; our ability to effectively communicate to the marketplace the benefits of the dosing regimen of eylea as compared to the dosing regimen of lucentis , and the willingness of retinal specialists and patients to switch from lucentis or off-label use of repackaged avastin to eylea; the ability of patients, retinal specialists, and other providers to obtain and maintain sufficient coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid in the united states and other government and private payers in the united states and foreign jurisdictions; our ability to maintain sales of eylea in the face of competitive products, including those currently in clinical development; and the effect of existing and new health care laws and regulations currently being implemented in the united states, including reporting and disclosure requirements of such laws and regulations and the potential impact of such requirements on physician prescription practices. under the terms of our license and collaboration agreement with bayer healthcare, we rely on bayer healthcare for sales, marketing, and distribution of eylea in countries outside the united states. if we and bayer healthcare are unsuccessful in continuing to commercialize eylea, our ability to sustain profitability would be materially impaired. in addition, if we or our collaborators are unable to successfully commercialize new product candidates or new indications for our marketed product, our future prospects would be materially impaired. our marketed products are subject to significant competition, and our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if any are approved for marketing, may face significant competition. there is substantial competition in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries from biotechnology, pharmaceutical, and chemical companies. many of our competitors have substantially greater research, preclinical and clinical product development and manufacturing capabilities, as well as financial, marketing, and human resources, than we do. our smaller competitors may also enhance their competitive position if they acquire or discover patentable inventions, form collaborative arrangements, or merge with large pharmaceutical companies. even if we achieve commercialization of our product candidates, our competitors have achieved, and may continue to achieve, product commercialization before our products are approved for marketing and sale. the market for eye disease products is very competitive, as described in greater detail above under "risks related to commercialization of eylea - the commercial success of eylea is subject to strong competition ." our earlier stage clinical candidates in development are all fully human monoclonal antibodies, which were generated using our velocimmune technology. our antibody generation technologies and earlier-stage clinical candidates face competition from many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies using various technologies. we are aware of several pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies actively engaged in the research and development of antibody products against targets that are also the targets of our early- and late-stage product candidates. for example, pfizer (in partnership with eli lilly), johnson &amp; johnson, and abbvie are developing antibody product candidates against ngf. genentech/roche is marketing an antibody against il-6r (actemra ) for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, and several other companies, including johnson &amp; johnson (in partnership with glaxosmithkline), alder biopharmaceuticals, ablynx (in partnership with abbvie), and pfizer have antibodies against il-6 or il-6r in clinical development. several companies, including amgen, pfizer, and eli lilly, have development programs for antibodies against pcsk9. amgen's pcsk9 program appears to be the most advanced of the competitors, having already submitted a bla with the fda and a marketing authorization application with the ema, and may obtain marketing approval in one or more countries before our pcsk9 antibody is approved. alnylam, in partnership with the medicines company, has a clinical program underway with an rnai molecule against pcsk9. in addition, there are therapeutic products targeting pcsk9 operating through other mechanisms of action in development, including an oral product. oral products that lower ldl-c, if approved, may also be competitive with pcsk9 inhibitors, including praluent (if approved). certain late-stage inhibitors of cholesterylester transfer protein (cetp), such as merck's anacetrapib and eli lilly's evacetrapib, lower ldl-c and may be launched with supporting data from outcomes trials prior to the completion of our own outcomes trial for praluent. another oral agent that lowers ldl-c and that may potentially compete with praluent, if approved, is esperion's etc-1002. a number of companies are developing antibodies that, if approved, may compete with dupilumab, our il-4r antibody, if it is approved, including roche (an antibody against il-13), teva (an antibody against il-5), astrazeneca (antibodies against il-5r and il-13), novartis (a combination antibody against il-4 and il-13), and amgen (in partnership with astrazeneca) (an antibody against thymic stromal lymphopoietin, or tslp). for muscle-wasting conditions, pfizer, eli lilly, bristol-myers squibb, 34 table of contents and atara biotherapeutics have anti-gdf8 monoclonal antibodies in development, and novartis has a competing antibody targeting actriib. if any of these or other competitors announces a successful clinical study involving a product that may be competitive with one of our product candidates or the grant of marketing approval by a regulatory agency for a competitive product, such developments may have an adverse effect on our business or future prospects. in addition, the first product to reach the market in a therapeutic area is often at a significant competitive advantage relative to later entrants to the market. accordingly, the relative speed with which we, or our collaborators, can develop our products candidates, complete the clinical trials and approval processes, and, if such product candidates are approved for marketing and sale, supply commercial quantities to the market is expected to continue to be an important competitive factor. due to the uncertainties associated with developing biopharmaceutical products, we may not be the first to obtain marketing approval for a product against any particular target, which may have a material adverse effect on our business or future prospects. the successful commercialization of our marketed products, as well as our late-stage product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if approved, will depend on obtaining and maintaining coverage and reimbursement for use of these products from third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid in the united states, and these payers may not cover or adequately reimburse for use of our products or may do so at levels that make our products uncompetitive and/or unprofitable, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. our future revenues and profitability will be adversely affected in a material manner if united states and foreign governmental payers, private third-party insurers and payers (such as health maintenance organizations and pharmacy benefit management companies), and other third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid, do not adequately defray or reimburse the cost of our products to the patients. if these entities do not provide coverage and reimbursement with respect to our products or provide an insufficient level of coverage and reimbursement, our products may be too costly for many patients to afford them, and physicians may not prescribe them. many third-party payers cover only selected drugs, or may prefer selected drugs, making drugs that are not covered or preferred by such payers more expensive for patients. third-party payers may also require prior authorization for reimbursement, or require failure on another type of treatment before covering a particular drug, particularly with respect to higher-priced drugs. as our currently marketed products and product candidates are biologics, bringing them to market may cost more than bringing traditional, small-molecule drugs to market due to the complexity associated with the research, development, production, supply and regulatory review of such products. given cost sensitivities in many health care systems, our currently marketed products and product candidates are likely to be subject to continued pricing pressures, which may have an adverse impact on our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. in addition, in order for private insurance and governmental payers (such as medicare and medicaid in the united states) to reimburse the cost of our products, we must, among other things, maintain registration of the products in the national drug code registry, maintain our re-labeler license, maintain formulary approval by pharmacy benefits managers, and maintain recognition by insurance companies and the centers for medicare and medicaid services of the department of health and human services (cms). there is no certainty that we will be able to obtain or maintain the applicable requirements for reimbursement (including relevant formulary coverage) of our current and future products, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. government and other third-party payers (including pharmacy benefit management companies) are challenging the prices charged for healthcare products and increasingly limiting, and attempting to limit, both coverage and level of reimbursement for prescription drugs. in march 2010, the ppaca and a related reconciliation bill were enacted in the united states. this legislation imposes cost containment measures that are likely to adversely affect the amount of reimbursement for our future products. the full effects of this legislation are unknown at this time and will not be known until regulations and guidance are issued by cms and other federal and state agencies. further, in september 2011 the office of inspector general (oig) of the department of health and human services issued a report entitled "review of medicare part b avastin and lucentis treatments for age-related macular degeneration" in which the oig details possible savings to the medicare program by using off-label, repackaged avastin rather than lucentis for the treatment of wet amd. some states are also considering legislation that would control the prices of drugs, and state medicaid programs are increasingly requesting manufacturers to pay supplemental rebates and requiring prior authorization by the state program for use of any drug for which supplemental rebates are not being paid. it is likely that federal and state legislatures and health agencies will continue to focus on additional health care reform in the future that will impose additional constraints on prices and reimbursements for our products. since eylea for its currently approved indications will likely continue to be too expensive for most patients to afford without health insurance coverage, if third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid in the united states, do not continue to provide adequate coverage and reimbursement for eylea, our ability to successfully market it would be materially adversely impacted. there is a risk that third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid in the united states, may not cover and/or reimburse our current and future products at levels required for us to successfully commercialize these products. any limitation imposed by third-party payers on the use of our products if they are approved for marketing, or any action or decision by cms or analogous foreign 35 table of contents agencies or authorities which for any reason denies coverage or reimbursement for our products or provides coverage or reimbursement at levels that harm our products' competitiveness or leads to lower prices for those products, will have a material negative effect on our ability to sustain profitability. in certain foreign countries, pricing, coverage, and level of reimbursement of prescription drugs are subject to governmental control, and we and our collaborators may be unable to obtain coverage, pricing, and/or reimbursement on terms that are favorable to us or necessary for us or our collaborators to successfully commercialize our products in those countries. in some foreign countries, the proposed pricing for a drug must be approved before it may be lawfully marketed. the requirements governing drug pricing and reimbursement vary widely from country to country, and may take into account the clinical effectiveness, cost, and service impact of existing, new, and emerging drugs and treatments. for example, the eu provides options for its member states to restrict the range of medicinal products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices of medicinal products for human use. a member state may approve a specific price for the medicinal product or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the medicinal product on the market. our results of operations may suffer if we or our collaborators are unable to market our products in foreign countries or if coverage and reimbursement for our products in foreign countries is limited or delayed. we are dependent upon a small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of or significant reduction in sales to these customers would adversely affect our results of operations. we sell eylea in the united states to several distributors and specialty pharmacies. under this distribution model, the distributors and specialty pharmacies generally take physical delivery of product and generally sell the product directly to healthcare providers. for the years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013, we recorded 73% and 76% , respectively, of our total gross product revenue from sales to a single distributor, besse medical, a subsidiary of amerisourcebergen corporation. we expect this significant customer concentration to continue for the foreseeable future. our ability to generate and grow sales of eylea will depend, in part, on the extent to which our distributors and specialty pharmacies are able to provide adequate distribution of eylea to healthcare providers. although we believe we can find additional distributors, if necessary, our revenue during any period of disruption could suffer and we might incur additional costs. in addition, these customers are responsible for a significant portion of our net trade accounts receivable balances. the loss of any large customer, a significant reduction in sales we make to them, any cancellation of orders they have made with us, or any failure to pay for the products we have shipped to them could adversely affect our results of operations. regulatory and litigation risks if the testing or use of our products harms people, or is perceived to harm them even when such harm is unrelated to our products, we could be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims. the testing, manufacturing, marketing, and sale of drugs for use in people expose us to product liability risk. any informed consent or waivers obtained from people who enroll in our clinical trials may not protect us from liability or the cost of litigation. we may also be subject to claims by patients who use our approved products, or our product candidates if those product candidates receive regulatory approval and become commercially available, that they have been injured by a side effect associated with the drug. even in a circumstance in which we do not believe that an adverse event is related to our products or product candidates, the related investigation may be time consuming or inconclusive and may have a negative impact on our reputation or business. we may face product liability claims and be found responsible even if injury arises from the acts or omissions of third parties who provide fill/finish or other services. our product liability insurance may not cover all potential liabilities or may not completely cover any liability arising from any such litigation. moreover, in the future we may not have access to liability insurance or be able to maintain our insurance on acceptable terms. if we market and sell approved products in a way that violates federal or state healthcare laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. in addition to fda and related regulatory requirements, we are subject to health care "fraud and abuse" laws, such as the federal false claims act, the anti-kickback provisions of the federal social security act, and other state and federal laws and regulations. federal and state anti-kickback laws prohibit, among other things, payments or other remuneration to induce or reward someone to purchase, prescribe, endorse, or recommend a product that is reimbursed under federal or state healthcare programs. if we provide payments or other remuneration to a healthcare professional to induce the prescribing of our products, we could face liability under state and federal anti-kickback laws. federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, such as allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; reporting to pricing services inflated average wholesale prices that were then used by federal programs to set reimbursement rates; engaging 36 table of contents in promotion for uses that the fda has not approved, known as off-label uses, that caused claims to be submitted to medicaid for non-covered off-label uses, and submitting inflated best price information to the medicaid rebate program. the majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payer. sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer's products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines, and imprisonment. even if it is determined that we have not violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which would harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the safe harbors, it is possible that some of our business activities could be challenged under one or more of such laws. as part of the ppaca, the federal government has enacted provisions imposing reporting and disclosure requirements on pharmaceutical manufacturers for any "transfers of value" made or distributed to prescribers and other healthcare providers. these statutory provisions and related regulations (commonly known as the "sunshine act") require pharmaceutical manufacturers to report annually to the secretary of the u.s. department of health and human services payments or other transfers of value made to physicians or teaching hospitals. in february 2013, regulations were released that contain detailed guidance regarding the information that must be collected and reported. we started to be required to collect information regarding such payments in august 2013 and submitted our 2013 reporting entity and payment aggregate data in june 2014, as required by the sunshine act. over the next several years, we will need to dedicate significant resources to enhance our systems and processes in order to comply with these regulations. the ppaca also includes various provisions designed to strengthen significantly fraud and abuse enforcement, such as increased funding for enforcement efforts and the lowering of the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback statute and criminal health care fraud statute such that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. in addition, several states and localities, including california, the district of columbia, massachusetts, minnesota, nevada, new mexico, vermont, and west virginia, have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, file periodic reports with the state or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, and other activities. similar requirements are being considered in other states. many of these requirements and standards are new and uncertain, and the penalties for failure to comply with these requirements may be unclear. if we are found not to be in full compliance with these laws, we could face enforcement actions, fines, and other penalties, and could receive adverse publicity, which would harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. risks from the improper conduct of employees, agents, contractors, or collaborators could adversely affect our reputation and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. we cannot ensure that our compliance controls, policies, and procedures will in every instance protect us from acts committed by our employees, agents, contractors, or collaborators that would violate the laws or regulations of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including, without limitation, healthcare, employment, foreign corrupt practices, environmental, competition, and patient privacy and other privacy laws and regulations. such improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations, and monetary and injunctive penalties, and could adversely impact our ability to conduct business, operating results, and reputation. in particular, our business activities outside of the united states are subject to the foreign corrupt practices act, or fcpa, and similar anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws, regulations or rules of other countries in which we operate, including the u.k. bribery act. the fcpa generally prohibits offering, promising, giving, or authorizing others to give anything of value, either directly or indirectly, to a non-u.s. government official in order to influence official action, or otherwise obtain or retain business. the fcpa also requires public companies to make and keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect the transactions of the corporation and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls. our business is heavily regulated and therefore involves significant interaction with public officials, including officials of non-u.s. governments. additionally, in many other countries, the health care providers who prescribe pharmaceuticals are employed by their government, and the purchasers of pharmaceuticals are government entities; therefore, our dealings with these prescribers and purchasers are subject to regulation under the fcpa. recently the securities and exchange commission, or sec, and department of justice have increased their fcpa enforcement activities with respect to pharmaceutical companies. there is no certainty that all of our employees, agents, contractors, or collaborators, or those of our affiliates, will comply with all applicable laws and regulations, particularly given the high level of complexity of these laws. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, requirements to obtain export licenses, cessation of business activities in sanctioned countries, implementation of compliance programs, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business. any such violations could include prohibitions on our ability to offer our products in one or more countries and could materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. 37 table of contents our operations may involve hazardous materials and are subject to environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations. compliance with these laws and regulations is costly, and we may incur substantial liability arising from our activities involving the use of hazardous materials. as a biopharmaceutical company with significant research and development and manufacturing operations, we are subject to extensive environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations, including those governing the use of hazardous materials. our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of chemicals, infectious agents (such as viruses, bacteria, and fungi), radioactive compounds, and other hazardous materials. the cost of compliance with environmental, health, and safety regulations is substantial. if an accident involving these materials or an environmental discharge were to occur, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, or face regulatory actions, which could exceed our resources or insurance coverage. our business is subject to increasingly complex corporate governance, public disclosure, and accounting requirements and regulations that could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. we are subject to changing rules and regulations of various federal and state governmental authorities as well as the stock exchange on which our common stock is listed. these entities, including the sec and the nasdaq stock market llc, have issued a significant number of new and increasingly complex requirements and regulations over the course of the last several years and continue to develop additional requirements and regulations in response to laws enacted by congress, including the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and, most recently, the dodd-frank wall street reform and protection act, or the dodd-frank act. there are significant corporate governance and executive compensation-related provisions in the dodd-frank act that expressly authorized or required the sec to adopt additional rules in these areas, a number of which have yet to be fully implemented. our efforts to comply with these requirements and regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, an increase in expenses and a diversion of management's time from other business activities. changes in laws and regulations affecting the healthcare industry could adversely affect our business. all aspects of our business, including research and development, manufacturing, marketing, pricing, sales, litigation, and intellectual property rights, are subject to extensive legislation and regulation. changes in applicable federal and state laws and agency regulations could have a materially negative impact on our business. these include: changes in the fda and foreign regulatory processes for new therapeutics that may delay or prevent the approval of any of our current or future product candidates; new laws, regulations, or judicial decisions related to healthcare availability or the payment for healthcare products and services, including prescription drugs, that would make it more difficult for us to market and sell products once they are approved by the fda or foreign regulatory agencies; changes in fda and foreign regulations that may require additional safety monitoring prior to or after the introduction of new products to market, which could materially increase our costs of doing business; and changes in fda and foreign cgmps that may make it more difficult and costly for us to maintain regulatory compliance and/or manufacture our marketed product and product candidates in accordance with cgmps. as described above, the ppaca and potential regulations thereunder easing the entry of competing follow-on biologics into the marketplace, other new legislation or implementation of existing statutory provisions on importation of lower-cost competing drugs from other jurisdictions, and legislation on comparative effectiveness research are examples of previously enacted and possible future changes in laws that could adversely affect our business. risks associated with our operations outside of the united states could adversely affect our business. we have operations and conduct business outside the united states and we plan to expand these activities. consequently, we are, and will continue to be, subject to risks related to operating in foreign countries, which include: unfamiliar foreign laws or regulatory requirements or unexpected changes to those laws or requirements; other laws and regulatory requirements to which our business activities abroad are subject, such as the fcpa and the u.k. bribery act (discussed in greater detail above under " risks from the improper conduct of employees, agents, contractors, or collaborators could adversely affect our reputation and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition "); changes in the political or economic condition of a specific country or region; fluctuations in the value of foreign currency versus the u.s. dollar; our ability to deploy overseas funds in an efficient manner; tariffs, trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements, trade embargoes, and other trade barriers; difficulties in attracting and retaining qualified personnel; and cultural differences in the conduct of business. 38 table of contents we may incur additional tax liabilities related to our operations. we are subject to income tax in the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide tax liabilities, and our effective tax rate is derived from a combination of the applicable statutory rates in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. we record liabilities that involve significant management judgment for uncertain tax positions. the irs or other domestic or foreign taxing authorities may disagree with our interpretation of tax law as applied to the operations of regeneron and its subsidiaries or with the positions we may take with respect to particular tax issues on our tax returns. consequently, our reported effective tax rate and our after-tax cash flows may be materially and adversely affected by tax assessments or judgments in excess of accrued amounts we have estimated in preparing our financial statements. further, our effective tax rate may also be adversely affected by numerous other factors, including changes in the mix of our profitability from country to country, the availability of the u.s. research and development tax credit, and changes in tax laws and regulations. we face potential liability related to the privacy of health information we obtain from research institutions and our collaborators. most health care providers, including research institutions from which we or our collaborators obtain patient information, are subject to privacy and security regulations promulgated under the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996 (hipaa), as amended by the health information technology for economic and clinical health act. for example, as part of our human genetics initiative, our wholly-owned subsidiary, regeneron genetics center llc, is collaborating with the geisinger health system, which is subject to such regulations, and may enter into collaboration arrangements with additional institutions in the future. regeneron is not a hipaa-covered entity and our clinical research efforts are not directly regulated by hipaa, so we are not subject to civil penalties under hipaa. however, any person may be prosecuted under hipaa's criminal provisions either directly or under aiding-and-abetting or conspiracy principles. consequently, depending on the facts and circumstances, we could face substantial criminal penalties if we knowingly receive individually identifiable health information from a hipaa-covered health care provider or research institution that has not satisfied hipaa's requirements for disclosure of individually identifiable health information. in addition, international data protection laws, including the eu data protection directive and legislation of the eu member states implementing it, may apply to some or all of the clinical data obtained from our collaborators outside of the u.s. failure by those collaborators to comply with the strict rules on the transfer of personal data outside of the eu into the u.s. may result in the imposition of criminal and administrative sanctions on such collaborators, which could adversely affect our business. furthermore, certain health privacy laws, data breach notification laws, consumer protection laws, and genetic testing laws may apply directly to our operations and/or those of our collaborators and may impose restrictions on our collection, use, and dissemination of individuals' health information. moreover, patients about whom we or our collaborators obtain information, as well as the providers who share this information with us, may have statutory or contractual rights that limit our ability to use and disclose the information. claims that we have violated individuals' privacy rights or breached our contractual obligations, even if we are not found liable, could be expensive and time-consuming to defend and could result in adverse publicity that could harm our business. if we or any collaborators fail to comply with applicable federal, state, or local regulatory requirements, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions that could affect our or any collaborators' ability to commercialize our products and could harm or prevent sales of any affected products that we are able to commercialize, or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing and marketing our products. any threatened or actual government enforcement action could also generate adverse publicity and require that we devote substantial resources that could otherwise be used in other aspects of our business. increasing use of social media could give rise to liability, breaches of data security, or reputational damage. we and our employees are increasingly utilizing social media tools as a means of communication both internally and externally. despite our efforts to monitor evolving social media communication guidelines and comply with applicable rules, there is risk that the use of social media by us or our employees to communicate about our products or business may cause us to be found in violation of applicable requirements. in addition, our employees may knowingly or inadvertently make use of social media in ways that may not comply with our social media policy or other legal or contractual requirements, which may give rise to liability, lead to the loss of trade secrets or other intellectual property, or result in public exposure of personal information of our employees, clinical trial patients, customers, and others. furthermore, negative posts or comments about us or our products in social media could seriously damage our reputation, brand image, and goodwill. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. 39 table of contents risks related to our reliance on third parties if our antibody collaboration with sanofi is terminated, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition, and our ability to discover, develop, manufacture, and commercialize our pipeline of product candidates in the time expected, or at all, would be materially harmed. we rely heavily on funding from sanofi to support our target discovery and antibody research and development programs. sanofi has committed to pay up to $160 million per year, or a total of $1.28 billion, between 2010 and 2017 to fund our efforts to identify and validate drug discovery targets and pre-clinically develop fully human monoclonal antibodies against such targets. sanofi also initially funds almost all of the development expenses incurred by both companies in connection with the clinical development of antibodies that sanofi elects to co-develop with us. we rely on sanofi to fund these activities. in addition, with respect to those antibodies that sanofi elects to co-develop with us, such as praluent, sarilumab, and dupilumab, we rely on sanofi to lead much of the clinical development efforts and assist with obtaining regulatory approval, particularly outside the united states. we also rely on sanofi to lead the commercialization efforts to support all of the antibody products that are co-developed by sanofi and us if they receive regulatory approval. if sanofi does not elect to co-develop the antibodies that we discover or opts out of their development, unless we enter into a collaboration agreement with another party, we would be required to fund and oversee on our own the clinical trials, any regulatory responsibilities, and the ensuing commercialization efforts to support those antibody products. for example, sanofi has elected not to continue co-development of fasinumab and regn2222, and decided not to opt in to the regn1154, regn1193, regn1500, and other programs. if sanofi terminates the antibody collaboration or fails to comply with its payment obligations thereunder, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be materially harmed. we would be required to either expend substantially more resources than we have anticipated to support our research and development efforts, which could require us to seek additional funding that might not be available on favorable terms or at all, or materially cut back on such activities. even though none of the antibodies from this collaboration may ever be successfully developed and commercialized, if sanofi does not perform its obligations with respect to antibodies that it elects to co-develop, our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize these antibody product candidates will be significantly adversely affected. if our collaboration with sanofi for zaltrap is terminated, or sanofi materially breaches its obligations thereunder, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition, and our ability to develop and commercialize zaltrap, would be materially harmed. we rely heavily on sanofi to lead much of the development of zaltrap and the commercialization of zaltrap. if sanofi fails to perform its obligations in a timely manner, or at all, our ability to develop and commercialize zaltrap in previously-treated mcrc will be significantly adversely affected. sanofi has the right to terminate its collaboration agreement with us at any time upon twelve months' advance notice. if sanofi were to terminate its collaboration agreement with us, we would not have the resources or skills to replace those of our collaborator, which we would have to develop or outsource at substantial additional costs to us. in particular, we have limited commercial capabilities outside the united states and would have to develop or outsource these capabilities. termination of the sanofi collaboration agreement for zaltrap would create substantial new and additional risks to the successful development and commercialization of zaltrap. 40 table of contents if our collaboration with bayer healthcare for eylea is terminated, or bayer healthcare materially breaches its obligations thereunder, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition, and our ability to continue to develop eylea and commercialize eylea outside the united states in the time expected, or at all, would be materially harmed. we rely heavily on bayer healthcare to assist with the development, and the commercialization outside the united states, of eylea. under our agreement with them, bayer healthcare is required to fund approximately half of the development expenses incurred by both companies in connection with the global eylea development program. as the eylea program continues, we will continue to rely on bayer healthcare to assist with funding the eylea development program, continue to lead the development of eylea outside the united states, obtain regulatory approval outside the united states, and provide all sales, marketing, and commercial support for the product outside the united states. in particular, bayer healthcare has responsibility for selling eylea outside the united states using its sales force and, in japan, in cooperation with santen pharmaceuticals co. ltd. pursuant to a co-promotion and distribution agreement with bayer healthcare's japanese affiliate. we cannot assure you that regulatory approvals will be received for eylea in additional indications outside the united states or that eylea will be successfully commercialized outside the united states. if bayer healthcare and, in japan, santen do not perform their obligations in a timely manner, or at all, our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize eylea outside the united states will be significantly adversely affected. bayer healthcare has the right to terminate its collaboration agreement with us at any time upon six or twelve months' advance notice, depending on the circumstances giving rise to termination. if bayer healthcare were to terminate its collaboration agreement with us, we would not have the resources or skills to replace those of our collaborator, which could require us to seek additional funding or another collaboration that might not be available on favorable terms or at all, and could cause significant delays in the development and/or commercialization of eylea outside the united states and result in substantial additional costs to us. we have limited commercial capabilities outside the united states and would have to develop or outsource these capabilities. termination of the bayer healthcare collaboration agreement would create substantial new and additional risks to the successful development and commercialization of eylea, particularly outside the united states. our collaborators and service providers may fail to perform adequately in their efforts to support the development, manufacture, and commercialization of our drug candidates and current and future products. we depend upon third-party collaborators, including sanofi, bayer healthcare, and service providers such as cros, outside testing laboratories, clinical investigator sites, and third-party manufacturers, fill/finish, and product packagers and labelers, to assist us in the manufacture and preclinical and clinical development of our product candidates. we also depend, or will depend, on some of these third parties in connection with the commercialization of eylea for its currently approved indications, zaltrap for the treatment of patients with mcrc, arcalyst for the treatment of caps, and our late-stage product candidates and new indications for our marketed products if they are approved for marketing. if any of our existing collaborators or service providers breaches or terminates its agreement with us or does not perform its development or manufacturing services under an agreement in a timely manner or in compliance with applicable gmps, glps, or gcp standards, we could experience additional costs, delays, and difficulties in the manufacture or development of, or in obtaining approval by regulatory authorities for, or successfully commercializing our product candidates. we rely on third-party service providers to support the distribution of eylea in the united states and for many other related activities in connection with the commercialization of this marketed product. despite our arrangements with them, these third parties may not perform adequately. if these service providers do not perform their services adequately, our sales of eylea will suffer. risk related to employees we are dependent on our key personnel and if we cannot recruit and retain leaders in our research, development, manufacturing, and commercial organizations, our business will be harmed. we are highly dependent on certain of our executive officers, other key members of our senior management team, and our chairman. if we are not able to retain (or for any other reason lose the services of) any of these persons, our business may suffer. in particular, we depend on the services of p. roy vagelos, m.d., the chairman of our board of directors; leonard s. schleifer, m.d., ph.d., our president and chief executive officer; george d. yancopoulos, m.d., ph.d., president, regeneron laboratories and our chief scientific officer; and neil stahl, ph.d., our executive vice president, research and development. as we continue to commercialize eylea and begin to commercialize other products assuming the receipt of required regulatory approvals, we are also highly dependent on the expertise and services of members of our senior management leading these commercialization efforts. there is intense competition in the biotechnology industry for qualified scientists and managerial personnel in the development, manufacture, and commercialization of drugs. we may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary to continue to advance our business and achieve our strategic objectives. 41 table of contents information technology risks significant disruptions of information technology systems or breaches of data security could adversely affect our business. our business is increasingly dependent on critical, complex, and interdependent information technology systems, including internet-based systems, to support business processes as well as internal and external communications. the size and complexity of our computer systems make us potentially vulnerable to it system breakdowns, malicious intrusion, and computer viruses, which may result in the impairment of production and key business processes. in addition, our systems are potentially vulnerable to data security breaches whether by employees or others which may expose sensitive data to unauthorized persons. such data security breaches could lead to the loss of trade secrets or other intellectual property, or could lead to the public exposure of personal information (including sensitive personal information) of our employees, clinical trial patients, customers, and others. such disruptions and breaches of security could result in legal proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, disruptions to our operations, and damage to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. risks related to our financial results, liquidity, and need for additional financing if we cannot sustain profitability, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be materially harmed. beginning in the first quarter of 2012, we reported profitability; prior to that, we generally incurred net losses. if we cannot sustain profitability, we may be unable to continue our operations. in the absence of substantial revenue from the sale of products on an ongoing basis, including our sales of eylea, and our share of the profits from bayer healthcare's sales of eylea outside the united states, or from other sources, the amount, timing, nature, or source of which cannot be predicted, we may incur substantial losses again as we conduct our research and development activities, commercialize our approved products, and prepare for possible commercialization of our other product candidates and new indications of our marketed products. we may need additional funding in the future, which may not be available to us, and which may force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts. we expend substantial resources for research and development, including costs associated with clinical testing of our product candidates and new indications of our marketed products, the commercialization of products, and capital expenditures. we believe our existing capital resources, together with funds generated by current and anticipated eylea net product sales and funding we are entitled to receive under our collaboration agreements, will enable us to meet our anticipated operating needs for the foreseeable future. however, one or more of our collaboration agreements may terminate, our revenues may fall short of our projections or be delayed, or our expenses may increase, any of which could result in our capital being consumed significantly faster than anticipated. in addition, our expenses may increase for many reasons, including expenses in connection with the ongoing marketing of eylea and the anticipated commercial launches of our late-stage product candidates and new indications for our marketed products, manufacturing scale-up, expenses related to clinical trials testing of antibody product candidates we are developing on our own (without sanofi), and expenses related to the requirement, following receipt of the first positive phase 3 trial results for a co-developed drug candidate, for us to fund 20% of phase 3 clinical trial costs for any of our antibody product candidates being developed in collaboration with sanofi. we cannot be certain that our existing capital resources and our current and anticipated revenues will be sufficient to meet our operating needs. we may require additional financing in the future and we may not be able to raise additional funds on acceptable terms or at all. our ability to obtain additional financing could be adversely affected if there is a significant decline in the demand for our products or other significantly unfavorable changes in economic conditions. volatility in the financial markets could increase borrowing costs or affect our ability to raise capital. if additional financing is necessary and we are able to obtain it through the sale of equity securities, such sales will likely be dilutive to our shareholders. debt financing arrangements may require us to pledge certain assets or enter into covenants that would restrict our business activities or our ability to incur further indebtedness and may be at interest rates and contain other terms that are not favorable to our shareholders. should we require and be unable to raise sufficient funds (i) to complete the development of our product candidates, (ii) to successfully commercialize our late-stage product candidates or new indications for our marketed products if they obtain regulatory approval, and (iii) to continue our manufacturing and marketing of eylea, we may face delay, reduction, or elimination of our research and development or preclinical or clinical programs and our commercialization activities, which would significantly limit our potential to generate revenue. 42 table of contents changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. our revenue from outside of the united states will increase as our products, whether marketed by us or our collaborators, gain marketing approval in such jurisdictions. our primary foreign currency exposure relates to movements in the japanese yen, euro, british pound sterling, and australian dollar. if the u.s. dollar weakens against a specific foreign currency, our revenues will increase, having a positive impact on net income, but our overall expenses will increase, having a negative impact. likewise, if the u.s. dollar strengthens against a specific foreign currency, our revenues will decrease, having a negative impact on net income, but our overall expenses will decrease, having a positive impact. therefore, significant changes in foreign exchange rates can impact our operating results and the financial condition of our company. our investments are subject to risks and other external factors that may result in losses or affect the liquidity of these investments. as of december 31, 2014 , we had $648.7 million in cash and cash equivalents and $711.9 million in marketable securities (including $98.8 million in equity securities). our investments consist primarily of fixed-income securities, including investment-grade corporate bonds. these fixed-income investments are subject to external factors that may adversely affect their market value or liquidity, such as interest rate, liquidity, market, and issuer credit risks, including actual or anticipated changes in credit ratings. the equity securities we hold may experience significant volatility and may decline in value or become worthless if the issuer experiences an adverse development. furthermore, our equity investments could be subject to dilution (and decline in value) as a result of the issuance of additional equity interests. if any of our investments suffer market price declines that are other than temporary, their value could be impaired, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. risks related to our common stock our stock price is extremely volatile. there has been significant volatility in our stock price and generally in the market prices of biotechnology companies' securities. various factors and events may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. these factors include, by way of example: fluctuations in our operating results, in particular net product sales of eylea and, to a lesser degree, sales of zaltrap; if any of our product candidates or our new indications for our marketed products receive regulatory approval, net product sales of, and profits from, these product candidates and new indications; market acceptance of, and fluctuations in market share for, our marketed products, especially eylea; whether our net products sales and net profits underperform, meet, or exceed the expectations of investors or analysts; announcement of actions by the fda or foreign regulatory authorities or their respective advisory committees regarding our, or our collaborators', or our competitors', currently pending or future application(s) for regulatory approval of product candidate(s) or new indications for marketed products; announcement of submission of an application for regulatory approval of one or more of our, or our competitors', product candidates or new indications for marketed products; progress, delays, or results in clinical trials of our or our competitors' product candidates or new indications for marketed products; announcement of technological innovations or product candidates by us or competitors; claims by others that our products or technologies infringe their patents; challenges by others to our patents in the european patent office and in the u.s. patent and trademark office; public concern as to the safety or effectiveness of any of our marketed products or product candidates or new indications for our marketed products; pricing or reimbursement actions, decisions, or recommendations by government authorities, insurers, or other organizations (such as health maintenance organizations and pharmacy benefit management companies) affecting the coverage, reimbursement, or use of any of our marketed products or competitors' products; our ability to raise additional capital as needed on favorable terms; developments in our relationships with collaborators or key customers; developments in the biotechnology industry or in government regulation of healthcare, including those relating to compounding; large sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors, or significant shareholders; changes in tax rates, laws, or interpretation of tax laws; arrivals and departures of key personnel; general market conditions; other factors identified in these "risk factors"; and the perception by the investment community or our shareholders of any of the foregoing factors. 43 table of contents the trading price of our common stock has been, and could continue to be, subject to wide fluctuations in response to these and other factors, including the sale or attempted sale of a large amount of our common stock in the market. as discussed in greater detail under " future sales of our common stock by our significant shareholders or us may depress our stock price and impair our ability to raise funds in new share offerings " below, a large percentage of our common stock is owned by a small number of our principal shareholders, and our largest shareholder, sanofi, has been increasing its ownership of our common stock. as a result, the public float of our common stock (i.e., the portion of our common stock held by public investors, as opposed to the common stock held by our directors, officers, and principal shareholders) is low relative to many large public companies. as our common stock is less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership, its trading price may fluctuate significantly more than the stock market as a whole. these factors may exacerbate the volatility in the trading price of our common stock and may negatively impact your ability to liquidate your investment in regeneron at the time you wish at a price you consider satisfactory. broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the market price of our common stock. in the past, securities class action litigation has often been initiated against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. this type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources, and could also require us to make substantial payments to satisfy judgments or to settle litigation, which may harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. future sales of our common stock by our significant shareholders or us may depress our stock price and impair our ability to raise funds in new share offerings. a small number of our shareholders beneficially own a substantial amount of our common stock. as of december 31, 2014, our five largest shareholders plus dr. schleifer, our chief executive officer, beneficially owned approximately 48.7% of our outstanding shares of common stock, assuming, in the case of our chief executive officer, the conversion of his class a stock into common stock and the exercise of all options held by him which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2014. as of december 31, 2014, sanofi beneficially owned 22,859,144 shares of our common stock, representing approximately 22.8% of the shares of common stock then outstanding. under our january 2014 amended and restated investor agreement with sanofi, sanofi has three demand rights to require us to use all reasonable efforts to conduct a registered underwritten offering with respect to shares of our common stock held by sanofi from time to time; however, shares of our common stock held by sanofi from time to time may not be sold until the later of (i) december 20, 2020 and (ii) the expiration of our discovery and preclinical development agreement with sanofi relating to our antibody collaboration (as amended) if the agreement is extended beyond december 20, 2020. these restrictions on dispositions are subject to earlier termination upon the occurrence of certain events, such as the consummation of a change-of-control transaction involving us or a dissolution or liquidation of our company. in february 2013, we received from sanofi a notification under the hart-scott-rodino antitrust improvements act of 1976 that it intends to acquire additional common stock through open market purchases and direct purchases from shareholders. in july 2014, sanofi disclosed in an amendment to its schedule 13d filed with the sec its intention to purchase additional shares of our common stock to progressively increase its beneficial ownership in 2014 and 2015 up to the maximum allowed under the "standstill" provisions of our amended and restated investor agreement with sanofi, or 30% of our class a stock and common stock (taken together). if sanofi, our other significant shareholders, or we sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or there is a perception that such sales may occur, the market price of our common stock could fall. sales of common stock by our significant shareholders, including sanofi, also might make it more difficult for us to raise funds by selling equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. our existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval and over our management. holders of class a stock, who are generally the shareholders who purchased their stock from us before our initial public offering, are entitled to ten votes per share, while holders of common stock are entitled to one vote per share. as of december 31, 2014, holders of class a stock held 16.4% of the combined voting power of all shares of common stock and class a stock then outstanding. these shareholders, if acting together, would be in a position to significantly influence the election of our directors and the vote on certain corporate transactions that require majority or supermajority approval of the combined classes, including mergers and other business combinations. this may result in our taking corporate actions that other shareholders may not consider to be in their best interest and may affect the price of our common stock. as of december 31, 2014: our current executive officers and directors beneficially owned 10.7% of our outstanding shares of common stock, assuming conversion of their class a stock into common stock and the exercise of all options held by such persons which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2014, and 22.3% of the combined voting power of our outstanding shares of common stock and class a stock, assuming the exercise of all options held by such persons which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2014; and our five largest shareholders plus dr. schleifer, our chief executive officer, beneficially owned approximately 48.7% of our outstanding shares of common stock, assuming, in the case of our chief executive officer, the conversion of his class a stock into common stock and the exercise of all options held by him which are exercisable within 60 days of 44 table of contents december 31, 2014. in addition, these five shareholders plus our chief executive officer held approximately 54.3% of the combined voting power of our outstanding shares of common stock and class a stock, assuming the exercise of all options held by our chief executive officer which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2014. pursuant to the january 2014 amended and restated investor agreement with us, sanofi has agreed to vote its shares as recommended by our board of directors, except that it may elect to vote proportionally with the votes cast by all of our other shareholders with respect to certain change-of-control transactions and to vote in its sole discretion with respect to liquidation or dissolution of our company, stock issuances equal to or exceeding 20% of the then outstanding shares or voting rights of common stock and class a stock (taken together), and new equity compensation plans or amendments if not materially consistent with our historical equity compensation practices. in addition, upon sanofi reaching 20% ownership of our then outstanding shares of class a stock and common stock (taken together), we are required under the amended and restated investor agreement to appoint an individual agreed upon by us and sanofi to our board of directors. subject to certain exceptions, we are required to use our reasonable efforts (including recommending that our shareholders vote in favor) to cause the election of this designee at our annual shareholder meetings for so long as sanofi maintains an equity interest in us that is the lower of (i) the highest percentage ownership sanofi attains following its acquisition of 20% of our then outstanding shares of class a stock and common stock (taken together) and (ii) 25% of our then outstanding shares of class a stock and common stock (taken together). this designee is required to be "independent" of our company, as determined under nasdaq rules, and not to be a current or former officer, director, employee, or paid consultant of sanofi. in april 2014, sanofi notified us that it had reached the 20% ownership threshold and designated robert a. ingram as its designee. on april 4, 2014, following recommendation of the corporate governance and compliance committee, the board of directors elected mr. ingram as a director and a member of the compensation committee. mr. ingram was subsequently elected as a class i director at our 2014 annual shareholder meeting for a term expiring at the 2016 annual shareholder meeting. the convertible note hedges and warrant transactions we entered into in connection with our convertible senior notes issuance may affect the trading price of our common stock. in connection with our offering of our 1.875% convertible senior notes due october 1, 2016, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions with four financial institutions (the hedge counterparties), the purpose of which was to reduce the potential dilution to our common stock and/or offset potential cash payments in excess of the principal amount of the notes (as applicable) upon conversion of the notes. in the event that the hedge counterparties fail to deliver shares to us or potential cash payments (as applicable) as required under the convertible note hedge documents, we would not receive the benefit of such transactions. separately, we also entered into warrant transactions with the hedge counterparties. the warrant transactions could separately have a dilutive effect from the issuance of common stock pursuant to the warrants. as of december 31, 2014, an aggregate principal amount of $169.4 million of the notes and 3,540,095 warrants (subject to adjustment from time to time as provided in the applicable warrant agreements) remained outstanding. in connection with hedging these transactions, the hedge counterparties and/or their affiliates may enter into various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock, and may enter into, or may unwind, various derivative transactions and/or purchase or sell our common stock or other securities of ours in secondary market transactions prior to maturity of the notes (and are likely to do so during any conversion period related to any conversion of the notes). these activities could have the effect of increasing or preventing a decline in, or could have a negative effect on, the value of our common stock and could have the effect of increasing or preventing a decline in the value of our common stock during any cash settlement averaging period related to a conversion of the notes. in addition, we intend to exercise options under the convertible note hedge transactions whenever notes are converted. in order to unwind their hedge position with respect to the options we exercise, the hedge counterparties and/or their affiliates may sell shares of our common stock or other securities in secondary market transactions or unwind various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock during the cash settlement averaging period for the converted notes. the effect, if any, of any of these transactions and activities on the trading price of our common stock or the notes will depend in part on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time, but any of these activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock and the value of the notes. the derivative transactions that the hedge counterparties and/or their affiliates expect to enter into to hedge these transactions may include cash-settled equity swaps referenced to our common stock. in certain circumstances, the hedge counterparties and/or their affiliates may have derivative positions that, when combined with the hedge counterparties' and their affiliates' ownership of our common stock, if any, would give them economic exposure to the return on a significant number of shares of our common stock. 45 table of contents the anti-takeover effects of provisions of our charter, by-laws, and of new york corporate law, as well as the contractual provisions in our investor and collaboration agreements and certain provisions of our compensation plans and agreements and our convertible senior notes and related warrant and hedge transactions, could deter, delay, or prevent an acquisition or other "change in control" of us and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. our restated certificate of incorporation, our by-laws, and the new york business corporation law contain various provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company or our management that shareholders may consider favorable or beneficial. some of these provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. these provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. these provisions include: authorization to issue "blank check" preferred stock, which is preferred stock that can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior shareholder approval, with rights senior to those of our common stock and class a stock; a staggered board of directors, so that it would take three successive annual meetings to replace all of our directors; a requirement that removal of directors may only be effected for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of at least eighty percent (80%) of the outstanding shares entitled to vote for directors, as well as a requirement that any vacancy on the board of directors may be filled only by the remaining directors; a provision whereby any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of shareholders may be taken without a meeting, only if, prior to such action, all of our shareholders consent, the effect of which is to require that shareholder action may only be taken at a duly convened meeting; a requirement that any shareholder seeking to bring business before an annual meeting of shareholders must provide timely notice of this intention in writing and meet various other requirements; and under the new york business corporation law, in addition to certain restrictions which may apply to "business combinations" involving our company and an "interested shareholder", a plan of merger or consolidation of our company must be approved by two-thirds of the votes of all outstanding shares entitled to vote thereon. see the risk factor above captioned " our existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval and over our management. " pursuant to the january 2014 amended and restated investor agreement between us and sanofi, sanofi is bound by certain "standstill" provisions, which contractually prohibit sanofi from seeking to directly or indirectly exert control of our company or acquiring more than 30% of our class a stock and common stock (taken together). this prohibition will remain in place until the earliest of (i) the later of the fifth anniversaries of the expiration or earlier termination of our license and collaboration agreement with sanofi relating to our antibody collaboration or our zaltrap collaboration agreement with sanofi, each as amended; (ii) our announcement recommending acceptance by our shareholders of a tender offer or exchange offer that, if consummated, would constitute a change of control involving us; (iii) the public announcement of any definitive agreement providing for a change of control involving us; (iv) the date of any issuance of shares of common stock by us that would result in another party having more than 10% of the voting power of our then outstanding class a stock and common stock (taken together) unless such party enters into a standstill agreement containing certain terms substantially similar to the standstill obligations of sanofi; or (v) other specified events, such as a liquidation or dissolution of our company. similarly, under our 2014 pdgfr-beta license and collaboration agreement with bayer healthcare, bayer healthcare is prohibited from seeking to influence the control of our company or acquiring more than 20% of our then outstanding class a stock and common stock (taken together). this prohibition will remain in place until the earliest of (i) the fifth anniversary of the expiration or earlier termination of the agreement; (ii) the public announcement of a tender offer, exchange offer, or other proposal that would constitute a change of control of our company; (iii) the acquisition (other than by dr. schleifer or his affiliates) of more than 20% of the voting power of our then outstanding class a stock and common stock (taken together); (iv) the issuance of shares of capital stock to another party (other than to an underwriter in a public offering) that would result in such party's having more than 7% of the voting power of our then outstanding class a stock and common stock (taken together) unless such third party enters into a standstill agreement containing terms substantially similar to the standstill obligations of bayer healthcare; (v) other specified events, such as a liquidation or dissolution of our company. the holders of our convertible senior notes have fundamental change purchase rights, which require us to purchase all or a portion of their notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, as defined in the indenture governing the notes. in addition, the indenture contains provisions requiring an increase to the conversion rate for conversions in connection with make-whole fundamental changes. these rights and provisions may in certain circumstances delay or prevent a takeover of us and the removal of incumbent management that might otherwise be beneficial to investors. in addition, upon the occurrence of certain extraordinary events, the hedge transactions would be exercised upon the conversion of notes, and the warrant transactions may be terminated. it is possible that the proceeds we receive upon the exercise of the convertible note hedge transactions would be significantly lower than the amounts we would be required to pay upon termination of the warrant transactions. such differences may result in the acquisition of us being on terms less favorable to our shareholders than it would otherwise be. 46 table of contents in addition, our change in control severance plan and the employment agreement with our chief executive officer provide for severance benefits in the event of termination as a result of a change in control of our company. also, stock options issued under our second amended and restated 2000 long-term incentive plan and our 2014 long-term incentive plan may become fully vested in connection with a "change in control" of our company, as defined in the plans. further, under the amended and restated investor agreement between us and sanofi, we are required under certain circumstances to appoint an individual agreed upon by us and sanofi to our board of directors, as described above under " our existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval and over our management ." these contractual provisions may also have the effect of deterring, delaying, or preventing an acquisition or other change in control. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 84 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our earnings and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to changes in interest rates, principally in connection with our investments in marketable securities, which consist primarily of corporate bonds, direct obligations of the u.s. government and its agencies and other debt securities guaranteed by the u.s. government, and municipal bonds. we do not believe we are materially exposed to changes in interest rates. we do not currently use interest rate derivative instruments to manage exposure to interest rate changes. we estimate that a 100 basis point, or 1%, unfavorable change in interest rates would have resulted in approximately a $6.7 million and $6.8 million decrease in the fair value of our investment portfolio as of december 31, 2014 and 2013 , respectively. credit quality risk we have an investment policy that includes guidelines on acceptable investment securities, minimum credit quality, maturity parameters, and concentration and diversification. nonetheless, deterioration of the credit quality of an investment security subsequent to purchase may subject us to the risk of not being able to recover the full principal value of the security. during 2014 and 2012, we recorded no charges for other-than-temporary impairments of our marketable securities. during 2013, we recorded an other-than-temporary impairment charge of $2.9 million related to our investment in an equity security. we are also subject to credit risk in connection with accounts receivable from our product sales of eylea and arcalyst. these accounts receivable are due from several distributors and specialty pharmacies, who are our customers. we have contractual payment terms with each of our customers, and we monitor our customers' financial performance and credit worthiness so that we can properly assess and respond to any changes in their credit profile. in addition, we may insure a portion of our accounts receivables within our overall risk management practices. during 2014, 2013, and 2012, we did not recognize any charges for write-offs of accounts receivable related to our marketed products. as of december 31, 2014 and 2013, one individual customer accounted for 70% and 75% , respectively, of our net trade accounts receivable balances. foreign exchange risk as discussed further above, bayer healthcare markets eylea outside the united states and sanofi markets zaltrap worldwide, and we share in profits and losses with these collaborators from such sales (including a percentage of sales in japan). therefore, significant changes in foreign exchange rates of the countries outside the united states where our product is sold by our collaborators can impact our operating results and financial condition. as sales outside the united states continue to grow, and as we expand our international operations, we will continue to assess potential steps, including foreign currency hedging and other strategies, to mitigate our foreign exchange risk.risk factors 24 "risk factors," which could cause actual events and results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. we do not undertake any obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. general regeneron pharmaceuticals, inc. is a fully integrated biopharmaceutical company that discovers, invents, develops, manufactures, and commercializes medicines for the treatment of serious medical conditions. we commercialize medicines for eye diseases, high low-density lipoprotein (ldl) cholesterol, and a rare inflammatory condition and have product candidates in development in other areas of high unmet medical need, including oncology, rheumatoid arthritis (ra), asthma, atopic dermatitis, pain, and infectious diseases. our significant 2015 business highlights include: eylea (aflibercept) injection, which is approved by the u.s. food and drug administration (fda) for use in retinal indications, delivered net sales growth of 54% over 2014, and is now the market-leading, branded anti-vegf therapy in the united states. we, along with our partner sanofi, received regulatory approval in the united states and europe for praluent (alirocumab) injection for the treatment of uncontrolled ldl-cholesterol in certain patients. praluent has been launched in the united states and certain european countries. we reported positive data from three phase 3 studies of sarilumab in rheumatoid arthritis and submitted a regulatory application to the fda. we reported positive, pivotal, phase 2b data for dupilumab in the asthma indication and completed enrollment of three phase 3 studies of dupilumab in atopic dermatitis. two of our antibodies advanced to phase 3 studies: regn 2222 for the prevention of respiratory syncytial virus (rsv) infection in infants; and fasinumab, an antibody against nerve growth factor (ngf), for osteoarthritis pain. we entered into significant new research and development collaborations: a collaboration with mitsubishi tanabe pharma corporation for fasinumab in certain asian countries and a broad immuno-oncology collaboration with sanofi. our initiatives in genomics also advanced, enabling us to sequence exomes at the rate of 100,000 per year. 2 table of contents from a company growth perspective, we hired our 4,000 th employee, expanded into two new buildings on our tarrytown, new york campus, continued to expand our bulk drug product manufacturing operations in rensselaer, new york, and continued building out and hiring people for our new limerick, ireland commercial manufacturing facility. we were named one of the two top employers in the global biopharmaceutical industry by science , for the fifth consecutive year. our total revenues were $4,103.7 million in 2015, compared to $2,819.6 million in 2014 and $2,104.7 million in 2013. our net income was $636.1 million , or $5.52 per diluted share, in 2015, compared to $338.1 million , or $2.98 per diluted share, in 2014, and $413.7 million , or $3.72 per diluted share, in 2013. refer to part ii, item 7. "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - results of operations" below for further details of our financial results. we currently have three marketed products: eylea (aflibercept) injection , known in the scientific literature as vegf trap-eye, is available in the united states, european union (eu), japan, and certain other countries outside the united states for the treatment of neovascular age-related macular degeneration (wet amd), diabetic macular edema (dme), macular edema following retinal vein occlusion (rvo), which includes macular edema following central retinal vein occlusion (crvo) and macular edema following branch retinal vein occlusion (brvo). eylea is also available in japan and the eu for the treatment of myopic choroidal neovascularization (mcnv) and in the united states for the treatment of diabetic retinopathy in patients with dme. bayer healthcare has additional regulatory applications for eylea for various indications pending in other countries. we are collaborating with bayer healthcare on the global development and commercialization of eylea outside the united states. praluent (alirocumab) injection , which is available in the united states where it is indicated as an adjunct to diet and maximally tolerated statin therapy for the treatment of adults with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia or clinical atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ascvd), who require additional lowering of ldl cholesterol. in september 2015, the european commission granted marketing authorization of praluent for the treatment of adult patients with primary hypercholesterolemia (heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (hefh) and non-familial) or mixed dyslipidemia as an adjunct to diet: (a) in combination with a statin, or statin with other lipid-lowering therapies in patients unable to reach their ldl-cholesterol goals with the maximally-tolerated dose of a statin, or (b) alone or in combination with other lipid-lowering therapies for patients who are statin intolerant, or for whom a statin is contraindicated. the effect of praluent on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality has not been determined. we are collaborating with sanofi on the global development and commercialization of praluent. arcalyst (rilonacept) injection for subcutaneous use , which is available in the united states for the treatment of cryopyrin-associated periodic syndromes (caps), including familial cold auto-inflammatory syndrome (fcas) and muckle-wells syndrome (mws), in adults and children 12 years and older. in february 2015, we and sanofi entered into an amended and restated zaltrap agreement (amended zaltrap agreement). under the terms of the amended zaltrap agreement, sanofi is solely responsible for the development and commercialization of zaltrap (ziv-aflibercept) injection for intravenous infusion for cancer indications worldwide. sanofi bears the cost of all development and commercialization activities and reimburses regeneron for its costs for any such activities. sanofi pays us a percentage of aggregate net sales of zaltrap during each calendar year of between 15% to 30%, depending on the aggregate net sales of zaltrap in such calendar year. refer to "collaboration agreements - collaborations with sanofi - zaltrap" below for further details of the amended zaltrap agreement. zaltrap is currently available in the united states, eu, and certain other countries for treatment, in combination with 5-fluorouracil, leucovorin, irinotecan (folfiri), of patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (mcrc) that is resistant to or has progressed following an oxaliplatin-containing regimen. we have 13 product candidates in clinical development, all of which were discovered in our research laboratories. these consist of a trap-based clinical program and 12 fully human monoclonal antibody product candidates, as summarized below. each of the antibodies in the table below was generated using our velocimmune technology. 3 table of contents trap-based clinical programs eylea in phase 3 clinical development for the treatment of neovascular glaucoma (nvg) (in japan) in collaboration with bayer healthcare. as described below, aflibercept is also being studied in combination with (i) an antibody to platelet derived growth factor receptor beta (pdgfr-beta), and (ii) an antibody to angiopoietin-2 (ang2). antibody-based clinical programs in collaboration with sanofi praluent antibody to pcsk9. in phase 3 clinical development for ldl cholesterol reduction and for the prevention of cardiovascular events. in july 2015, the fda approved praluent as an adjunct to diet and maximally tolerated statin therapy for the treatment of adults with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia or clinical ascvd, who require additional lowering of ldl cholesterol. in september 2015, the european commission granted marketing authorization for praluent for the treatment of ldl cholesterol in certain adult patients with hypercholesterolemia. the effect of praluent on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality has not been determined. sarilumab (regn88) antibody to the interleukin-6 receptor (il-6r). in clinical development in rheumatoid arthritis (phase 3) and non-infectious uveitis (phase 2). dupilumab (regn668) antibody to the interleukin-4 receptor (il-4r) alpha subunit. in clinical development in atopic dermatitis in adults (phase 3), atopic dermatitis in pediatric patients (phase 2), asthma (phase 3), nasal polyps in patients who also have chronic sinusitis (npwcs) (phase 2), and eosinophilic esophagitis (eoe) (phase 2). regn2810 antibody to programmed cell death protein 1 (pd-1). phase 1 clinical study in advanced malignancies initiated in the first quarter of 2015. antibody-based clinical program in collaboration with bayer healthcare regn2176-3 ** combination product comprised of an antibody to pdgfr-beta co-formulated with aflibercept for intravitreal injection for use in ophthalmology. phase 2 clinical study for the treatment of wet amd initiated in the second quarter of 2015. fast track designation received from the fda for the treatment of patients with wet amd. antibody-based clinical program in collaboration with mitsubishi tanabe pharma fasinumab (regn475) * antibody to nerve growth factor (ngf). phase 2b/3 study (16-weeks) in pain due to osteoarthritis initiated in the second quarter of 2015. antibody-based clinical programs developing independently regn2222 * antibody to the respiratory syncytial virus-f (rsv-f) protein. phase 3 clinical study in rsv initiated in the second quarter of 2015. evinacumab (regn1500) * antibody to angptl-3. phase 2 clinical study for the treatment of dyslipidemia in homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia initiated in the first quarter of 2015. partial clinical hold that excluded women of childbearing potential was lifted by the fda in the third quarter of 2015. regn1033 * antibody to myostatin (gdf8). phase 2 monotherapy clinical development in skeletal muscle disorders completed. combination therapy plans are in development. in the second quarter of 2015, sanofi provided notice to regeneron that it had elected not to continue co-development of regn1033. regn1908-1909 * antibody to feld1 in phase 1/phase 2 clinical development against allergic disease. regn1979 bispecific antibody against cd20 and cd3. in phase 1 clinical development for non-hodgkin's lymphoma and chronic lymphocytic leukemia. nesvacumab/aflibercept (regn910-3) ** combination product comprised of an antibody to ang2 co-formulated with aflibercept for intravitreal injection for use in ophthalmology. phase 1 clinical development for the treatment of wet amd and dme completed. 4 table of contents * sanofi did not opt-in to or elected not to continue to co-develop the product candidate. under the terms of our agreement, sanofi is entitled to receive royalties on any future sales of the product candidate. ** antibodies targeting the pdgf family of receptors and ligands in ophthalmology and all other indications, and antibodies targeting the ang2 receptor and ligand in ophthalmology were previously included in our antibody collaboration with sanofi. under the terms of our agreements, sanofi is entitled to receive potential development milestones and royalties on any future sales of the product candidate. regn1400, an antibody to erbb3, regn1154, an antibody against an undisclosed target, and regn1193, an antibody to glucagon receptor (gcgr), each of which were previously in phase 1 studies, are no longer in clinical development. our core business strategy is to maintain a strong foundation in basic scientific research and discovery-enabling technologies, and to combine that foundation with our clinical development, manufacturing, and commercial capabilities. we are executing our long-term objective to build a successful, integrated, multi-product biopharmaceutical company that provides patients and medical professionals with innovative options for preventing and treating human diseases. we believe that our ability to develop product candidates is enhanced by the application of our velocisuite technology platforms. our discovery platforms are designed to identify specific proteins of therapeutic interest for a particular disease or cell type and validate these targets through high-throughput production of genetically modified mice using our velocigene technology to understand the role of these proteins in normal physiology, as well as in models of disease. our human monoclonal antibody technology ( velocimmune ) and cell line expression technologies ( velocimab ) may then be utilized to discover and produce new product candidates directed against the disease target. our antibody product candidates currently in clinical trials were developed using velocimmune . we continue to invest in the development of enabling technologies to assist in our efforts to identify, develop, manufacture, and commercialize new product candidates. marketed products eylea (aflibercept) injection we commenced sales of eylea in the united states for the treatment of wet amd in 2011, macular edema following crvo in 2012, dme in the third quarter of 2014, and macular edema following rvo in the fourth quarter of 2014. in addition, in march 2015, the fda approved eylea for the treatment of diabetic retinopathy in patients with dme. outside the united states, bayer healthcare commenced sales of eylea for the treatment of wet amd in 2012, macular edema secondary to crvo in 2013, visual impairment due to dme in the third quarter of 2014, and mcnv in japan in the fourth quarter of 2014. in february and june 2015, the european commission and the japanese ministry of health, labour and welfare (mhlw), respectively, approved eylea for the treatment of macular edema following rvo, which includes macular edema following brvo. in october 2015, the european commission approved eylea for the treatment of visual impairment due to mcnv. in the fourth quarter of 2014, bayer healthcare submitted a regulatory application in china for eylea for the treatment of wet amd. bayer healthcare has additional regulatory applications for eylea for various indications pending in other countries. we are collaborating with bayer healthcare on the global development and commercialization of eylea outside the united states. bayer healthcare markets, and records revenue from sales of eylea outside the united states, where, for countries other than japan, the companies share equally the profits and losses from sales of eylea. in japan, we are entitled to receive a percentage of the sales of eylea. we maintain exclusive rights to eylea in the united states and are entitled to all profits from such sales. net product sales of eylea in the united states were $2,676.0 million in 2015, compared to $1,736.4 million in 2014 and $1,408.7 million in 2013. bayer healthcare records revenue from sales of eylea outside the united states, which were $1,413.3 million in 2015, compared to $1,038.5 million in 2014 and $472.1 million in 2013. praluent (alirocumab) injection in july 2015, the fda approved praluent as an adjunct to diet and maximally tolerated statin therapy for the treatment of adults with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia or clinical ascvd, who require additional lowering of ldl cholesterol. in addition, in september 2015, the european commission granted marketing authorization of praluent for the treatment of adult patients with primary hypercholesterolemia (hefh and non-familial) or mixed dyslipidemia as an adjunct to diet: (a) in combination with a statin, or statin with other lipid-lowering therapies in patients unable to reach their ldl-cholesterol goals with the maximally-tolerated dose of a statin, or (b) alone or in combination with other lipid-lowering therapies for patients who are statin intolerant, or for whom a statin is contraindicated. the effect of praluent on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality has not been determined. we are collaborating with sanofi on the global development and commercialization of praluent. under our collaboration agreement, sanofi records product sales and cost of sales for commercialized products, and regeneron has the right to co-promote such products. we have exercised our option to co-promote praluent in the united states. we and sanofi share profits and losses from sales of praluent. net product sales of praluent were $10.5 million in 2015. 5 table of contents arcalyst (rilonacept) injection for subcutaneous use arcalyst is available in the united states for the treatment of caps in adults and children 12 years and older. caps are a group of rare, inherited, auto-inflammatory conditions characterized by life-long, recurrent symptoms of rash, fever/chills, joint pain, eye redness/pain, and fatigue. intermittent, disruptive exacerbations or flares can be triggered at any time by exposure to cooling temperatures, stress, exercise, or other unknown stimuli. net product sales of arcalyst were $13.5 million in 2015, $14.4 million in 2014, and $17.1 million in 2013. trap-based clinical programs eylea - ophthalmologic diseases overview vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) is a naturally occurring protein in the body. its normal role in a healthy organism is to trigger formation of new blood vessels (angiogenesis) supporting the growth of the body's tissues and organs. however, in certain diseases, such as wet amd, it is also associated with the growth of abnormal new blood vessels in the eye, which exhibit abnormal increased permeability that leads to edema. scarring and loss of fine-resolution central vision often results. crvo is caused by obstruction of the central retinal vein that leads to a back-up of blood and fluid in the retina. release of vegf contributes to increased vascular permeability in the eye and macular edema. in brvo, a blockage occurs in the blood vessels branching from the main vein draining the retina, resulting in the release of vegf and consequent retinal edema. for centrally involved dme, vegf-mediated leakage of fluid from blood vessels in the eye results in interference with vision. wet amd, diabetic retinopathy (which includes dme), and rvo are three of the leading causes of adult blindness in the developed world. in these conditions, severe visual loss is caused by neovascular proliferation and/or retinal edema. eylea is a recombinant fusion protein, consisting of portions of human vegf receptors 1 and 2 extracellular domains fused to the fc portion of human igg1 and formulated as an iso-osmotic solution for intravitreal administration. eylea acts as a soluble decoy receptor that binds vegf-a and placental growth factor (plgf) and thereby can inhibit the binding and activation of these cognate vegf receptors. eylea is specially purified and contains iso-osmotic buffer concentrations, allowing for injection into the eye. neovascular glaucoma nvg is a secondary glaucoma triggered by the formation of new blood vessels (neovascularization) on the iris and the anterior chamber angle. neovascularization restricts aqueous outflow and consequently elevates intraocular pressure (iop). nvg is a serious condition that may lead to permanent loss of vision, a persistently painful eye, and, especially in the advanced stages, is unlikely to respond to treatment. nvg is caused by eye diseases leading to retinal ischemia, mainly crvo, proliferative diabetic retinopathy (pdr), and ocular ischemic syndrome (ois). nvg meets the criteria for an orphan indication in japan where the estimated number of nvg patients is 30,000 to 40,000. in the second quarter of 2015, bayer healthcare initiated a phase 3 study in japan to assess the efficacy and safety of intravitreal administration of aflibercept in comparison to sham treatment on the change in iop in patients with nvg. late-stage antibody-based clinical programs praluent for ldl cholesterol reduction overview elevated ldl cholesterol ("bad cholesterol") level is a validated risk factor leading to cardiovascular disease. statins are a class of drugs that lower ldl cholesterol (ldl-c) through inhibition of hmg-coa, an enzyme regulating the early and rate-limiting step in cholesterol biosynthesis that ultimately results in an increase in ldl receptors to increase the uptake of plasma ldl lipoproteins. similar to statins, pcsk9 impacts the number of available ldl receptors and therefore plays a key role in modulating ldl-c levels in the body. pcsk9 is a secreted protein that binds to and induces the destruction of the ldl receptor, thereby interfering with cellular uptake and increasing circulating levels of ldl cholesterol. in a landmark study published in the new england journal of medicine in march 2006, patients with lower than normal pcsk9 levels due to a genetic abnormality not only had significantly lower levels of ldl-c, but also a significant reduction in the risk of coronary heart disease (chd). we used our velocimmune technology to generate a fully human monoclonal antibody inhibitor of pcsk9, called praluent, that is intended to lower ldl cholesterol. 6 table of contents clinical programs phase 3 odyssey program . we and sanofi initiated the global phase 3 odyssey program for praluent in 2012. the odyssey program consists of more than 25,000 patients, and includes clinical trials evaluating the effect of praluent, dosed every two weeks, on lowering ldl cholesterol. in addition, the potential of praluent to demonstrate cardiovascular benefit is being prospectively assessed in the ongoing 18,000-patient odyssey outcomes trial, which is fully enrolled and is expected to be completed in 2017. ldl cholesterol reduction is the primary efficacy endpoint for initial regulatory filings. additionally, the odyssey program includes two trials of praluent dosed every four weeks, odyssey choice i and odyssey choice ii. patients in the odyssey choice i trial received praluent 300 milligrams (mg) (most in combination with statins) every four weeks and patients in the choice ii trial received praluent 150 mg monotherapy and in combination with non-statin lipid lowering therapy every four weeks. in 2013, we and sanofi reported data from the odyssey mono trial, which evaluated the efficacy and safety of praluent monotherapy versus ezetimibe monotherapy in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia. in 2014, we and sanofi reported detailed positive results from nine additional phase 3 odyssey studies. all ten studies (odyssey mono, long term, fh i, fh ii, high fh, combo i, combo ii, options i, options ii, and alternative) met their primary efficacy endpoint of a greater percent reduction from baseline in ldl-c at 24 weeks compared to placebo or active comparator. based on the positive results of these studies, a biologics license application (bla) for u.s. regulatory approval of praluent was submitted, and accepted by the fda in january 2015. an fda rare pediatric disease priority review voucher was utilized in connection with this bla submission, as a result of which the submission was accepted by the fda for priority review. in july 2015, the fda approved praluent as an adjunct to diet and maximally tolerated statin therapy for the treatment of adults with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia or clinical ascvd, who require additional lowering of ldl cholesterol. in addition, in september 2015, the european commission granted marketing authorization of praluent for the treatment of adult patients with primary hypercholesterolemia (hefh and non-familial) or mixed dyslipidemia as an adjunct to diet: (a) in combination with a statin, or statin with other lipid-lowering therapies in patients unable to reach their ldl-cholesterol goals with the maximally-tolerated dose of a statin, or (b) alone or in combination with other lipid-lowering therapies for patients who are statin intolerant, or for whom a statin is contraindicated. the effect of praluent on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality has not been determined. in january 2015, we and sanofi announced that the odyssey choice i and odyssey choice ii studies met their primary efficacy endpoints. the trials compared the reduction from baseline in ldl-c at 24 weeks with praluent versus placebo in patients with hypercholesterolemia. in these trials dosing every four weeks, the mean percent reduction in ldl-c from baseline was consistent with that seen in previous phase 3 trials evaluating praluent in every other week dosing. the most common adverse events (aes) in the trials (occurring in at least 5% of praluent-treated patients) were injection site reactions, headache, upper respiratory tract infection, arthralgia, nausea, sinusitis, pain in extremity, and fatigue. injection site reactions occurred more frequently in the praluent groups compared to placebo. odyssey japan was a trial that evaluated praluent (n =144) compared to placebo (n =72), both on top of standard care, in japanese patients with hypercholesterolemia, with either hefh or at high cv risk, and who could not reach their ldl-c treatment goal as defined by the japan atherosclerosis society (jas) guidelines despite lipid-lowering treatments that included statins. the mean ldl-c value at baseline was 141.2 mg/dl. patients were initially randomized to receive either praluent 75 mg every two weeks administered as a single 1 ml injection, or placebo. patients in both groups received statins, with or without other lipid-lowering therapies. in july 2015, we and sanofi announced that the phase 3 odyssey japan trial met its primary endpoint. at week 24, patients in the praluent group experienced an average 64% greater reduction from baseline in their ldl-c when added to current standard of care including statins, compared to standard of care alone (p&lt;0.0001). patients were started on the lower dose of 75 mg, with the option to adjust their dose to 150 mg if they had not achieved their ldl-c goal (as defined by the jas guidelines) at week 8. at week 24, 97% of patients in the praluent group reached their ldl-c treatment goal, compared to 10% for placebo (p&lt;0.0001). ninety-nine percent of japanese patients who received praluent at week 8 remained on the initial 75 mg dose, while 1% of patients had their dose adjusted to receive 150 mg every two weeks, also as a single 1 milliliter (ml) injection. the most common adverse events (occurring in at least 5% of patients in the praluent group) were nasopharyngitis, injection site reaction, and back pain. in july 2015, results were presented at the annual scientific meeting of the jas in sendai, japan. sarilumab (regn88; il-6r antibody) for inflammatory diseases overview il-6 is a key cytokine involved in the pathogenesis of ra, causing inflammation and joint destruction. sarilumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody to il-6r generated using our velocimmune technology. rheumatoid arthritis phase 3 studies . in 2013, we and sanofi announced that in the 52 week saril-ra-mobility phase 3 clinical trial in adult patients with active ra who were inadequate responders to methotrexate (mtx) therapy, sarilumab treatment in combination with 7 table of contents mtx improved disease signs and symptoms as well as physical function, and inhibited progression of joint damage. additional data from the trial were presented at the annual meeting of the european league against rheumatism (eular) in june 2015. in the second quarter of 2015, we and sanofi announced that in the 24 week saril-ra-target phase 3 clinical trial in adult patients with active ra who were inadequate responders or intolerant of tnf-alpha inhibitors, sarilumab treatment in combination with non-biologic disease modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (dmard) therapy improved disease signs and symptoms, as well as physical function. data from this trial were subsequently presented at the annual meeting of the american college of rheumatology (acr) in november 2015. a bla for u.s. regulatory approval of sarilumab was accepted for review by the fda in december 2015. the target date for an fda decision on the bla is october 30, 2016. a summary of primary endpoints and most common aes for the mobility and target trials is as follows: completed efficacy and safety studies * study patient group primary efficacy endpoints ** safety findings acr a 20/50/70 haq-di b mtss c mobility (n=1,197) 150mg + mtx (n=400) moderate to severe active ra with inadequate response to mtx 58/37/20 (p&lt;0.0001 vs. placebo) -0.53 (p&lt;0.0001 vs. placebo) 0.90 (p&lt;0.0001 vs. placebo) infections, neutropenia, injection site reactions, and increased transaminases 200mg + mtx (n=398) 66/46/25 (p&lt;0.0001 vs. placebo) -0.55 (p&lt;0.0001 vs. placebo) 0.25 (p&lt;0.0001 vs. placebo) placebo + mtx (n=399) 33/17/7 -0.29 2.78 target (n=546) 150mg + dmard (n=181) moderate to severe active ra with inadequate response to, or intolerant of, one or more tumor necrosis factor-alpha (tnf-alpha) inhibitors 56/37/20 d (p&lt;0.0001 vs. placebo for acr20 and acr50) -0.46 (p=0.0007 vs. placebo) na infections, neutropenia, injection site reactions, and hypertriglyceridemia 200mg + dmard (n=184) 61/41/16 e (p&lt;0.0001 vs. placebo for acr20 and acr50) -0.47 (p=0.0004 vs. placebo) placebo + dmard (n=181) 34/18/7 -0.26 * - represent completed, placebo-controlled, double-blind efficacy studies ** - in mobility, proportion of patients achieving acr20 at week 24, change from baseline in haq-di at week 16, and change from baseline mtss at week 52 were co-primary endpoints. in target, proportion of patients achieving acr20 at week 24 and change from baseline in haq-di at week 24 were co-primary endpoints na = not applicable a. acr = american college of rheumatology score b. haq-di = the health assessment question-disability index c. mtss = van der heijde modified total sharp score d. p&lt;0.0002 vs. placebo for acr70 e. p&lt;0.0056 vs. placebo for acr70 completed safety studies study patient group primary endpoint study met primary endpoint? ascertain (n=202) moderate to severe active ra with inadequate response to, or intolerant of, one or more tnf-alpha inhibitors assess safety of two subcutaneous doses of sarilumab and tocilizumab in combination with dmards yes easy (n=217) completed patients from mobility, target, or ascertain trials product technical failures yes 8 table of contents additional results from the phase 3 studies will be presented at upcoming medical congresses. we and sanofi have also initiated additional phase 3 studies, saril-ra-one, saril-ra-monarch, and saril-ra-kakehasi (in japan). in addition, the saril-ra-haruka long-term safety trial was initiated in japan in the first quarter of 2015. in the second quarter of 2015, an open-label, randomized, parallel group, single-dose phase 1 study to assess the safety of il-6 receptor blockade with sarilumab or tocilizumab monotherapy in japanese patients with ra was also initiated. the broad saril-ra clinical development program is focused on adult populations with moderate-to-severe ra who are inadequate responders to either mtx or tumor necrosis factor alpha inhibitor therapy. patients who complete saril-ra-mobility, saril-ra-target, saril-ra-ascertain, or saril-ra-one are offered enrollment into the ongoing saril-ra-extend, which is an open-label, long-term safety study of sarilumab. non-infectious uveitis phase 2 saril-niu-saturn study . saril-niu-saturn was a small phase 2, randomized double-masked, placebo-controlled study (n=58) conducted to assess the effect of sarilumab on non-infectious uveitis of the posterior ocular segment. the primary endpoint of the study was the proportion of patients with a 2-step decrease in vitreous haze (based on a 9-point grading scale) or a steroid dose of less than 10 mg/day at week 16. results of this study at the pre-specified primary endpoint, week 16, showed that compared with placebo patients, a greater proportion of patients randomized to sarilumab met the primary endpoint; however, this was not statistically significant. approximately 70% of patients enrolled in the study had a baseline vitreous haze score of less than 2 as judged by the reading center, limiting our ability to interpret the vitreous haze component of the primary endpoint for these patients. other indications of a positive effect of treatment with sarilumab compared to placebo included decreased average vitreous haze score, reduced macular edema and improved best-corrected visual acuity in patients presenting with more severe baseline ocular inflammation, and associated with improvement of leakage on fluorescein angiography. overall, safety observations were consistent with the findings in studies of other indications with sarilumab. the study is ongoing and will continue through week 52, when we will discuss next steps with our collaborator sanofi. dupilumab (regn668; il-4r antibody) for allergic and inflammatory conditions overview il-4r is required for signaling by the cytokines il-4 and il-13. both of these cytokines are critical mediators of immune response, which, in turn, drives the formation of immunoglobulin e (ige) antibodies and the development of allergic responses, as well as the atopic state that underlies atopic (allergic) dermatitis, asthma, nasal polyps, and eosinophilic esophagitis. dupilumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody generated using our velocimmune technology that is designed to bind to il-4r alpha subunit and block signaling from both il-4 and il-13. atopic dermatitis phase 2b trial . in 2015, results from a phase 2b dose-ranging study of dupilumab in adult patients with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis were published in the lancet . all doses of dupilumab met the primary endpoint of a greater improvement in eczema severe score index (easi) scores from baseline compared to placebo. in the phase 2b trial, all five subcutaneous doses of dupilumab showed a dose-dependent improvement in the primary endpoint, the mean percent change in easi score from baseline to week 16. the improvements in easi score ranged from a high of 74% for patients in the highest dose group, who received 300 mg weekly, to a low of 45% in patients who received the lowest dose of 100 mg monthly, compared to 18% for patients in the placebo group (p&lt;0.0001 for all doses). the most common ae in the phase 2b study was nasopharyngitis, which was balanced across dupilumab treatment groups (18.5% to 23%) compared to placebo (21%). injection site reactions were more frequent in the dupilumab group (5% to 9.5%) compared to placebo (3%), as was headache (12% to 15%) compared to placebo (8%). dupilumab-treated patients showed highly statistically significant and dose-dependent improvements in additional key efficacy measures compared to placebo after 16 weeks of treatment: 12% to 33% of dupilumab-treated patients achieved clearing or near-clearing of skin lesions, as measured by an investigator's global assessment (iga) score of 0 or 1, compared to 2% with placebo (p=0.02 to p&lt;0.0001). dupilumab-treated patients experienced a 16.5% to 47% mean reduction in itching, as measured by the pruritus numerical-rating scale (nrs) score, compared to an increase of 5% in the placebo group (p=0.0005 to p&lt;0.0001). this phase 2b double-blind, placebo-controlled, 16-week, dose-ranging study randomized 380 patients with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis, who could not be adequately controlled with topical medication or for whom topical treatment was not advisable. patients were randomized to receive one of five doses of dupilumab (300 mg weekly, 300 mg every other week, 300 mg monthly, 200 mg every other week, 100 mg monthly) or placebo. patients in the study had approximately 50% of their skin affected by atopic dermatitis at baseline. in the year preceding enrollment in the study, approximately 35% of patients received an oral 9 table of contents corticosteroid and approximately 20% received a systemic non-steroid immunosuppressant for atopic dermatitis. approximately 60% of patients had another allergic condition, including approximately 40% of patients who had a history of asthma. phase 3 study . in 2015, three phase 3 trials in atopic dermatitis, liberty ad chronos, liberty ad solo 1, and liberty ad solo 2, completed enrollment. patients from these studies were transitioned to either the ongoing liberty continue or liberty ad open label extension trials. the liberty ad phase 3 clinical program consists of patients with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis at sites worldwide. in november 2014, the fda granted breakthrough therapy designation to dupilumab for the treatment of adults with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis who are not adequately controlled with topical prescription therapy and/or for whom these treatments are not appropriate. this designation is based on positive results from phase 1 and 2 clinical trials, the determination that atopic dermatitis is a serious disease, and preliminary clinical evidence that indicates that the drug may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies. in december 2015, the united kingdom (uk) medicines &amp; healthcare products regulatory agency (mhra) granted promising innovative medicine (pim) designation to dupilumab in the short-term treatment of adult patients with severe atopic dermatitis who have responded inadequately to all available topical prescription treatments and/or systemic ciclosporin, or who are intolerant of or ineligible for such treatments. a pim designation is an early indication that a medicinal product is a promising candidate for the early access to medicines scheme (eams), in the treatment, diagnosis, or prevention of life-threatening or seriously debilitating conditions with unmet need. pim designation is the first step in a 2-step eams process that allows patients to be treated with dupilumab in advance of formal regulatory approval. phase 2 trial in pediatric patients . in march 2015, a phase 2 pharmacokinetic and safety study in pediatric patients (6-17 years of age) with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis was initiated and is fully enrolled. asthma phase 2b study . in may 2015, we and sanofi presented positive results from an interim analysis of a pivotal phase 2b study of dupilumab in adult patients with moderate-to-severe asthma, who are uncontrolled despite treatment with inhaled corticosteroids and long-acting beta agonists (ics/laba), at the american thoracic society 2015 international conference. the results of this study demonstrated that dupilumab added to standard-of-care therapy demonstrated fewer exacerbations and improved lung function across both the high and low baseline eosinophil groups of patients. as previously reported in 2014, the study met its primary endpoint of improving lung function in asthma patients with high blood eosinophil counts ((heos), greater than or equal to 300 eosinophilic cells/microliter). new data presented on secondary endpoints at the american thoracic society 2015 international conference included positive results in study patients with low blood eosinophil counts ((leos), less than 300 eosinophilic cells/microliter), who are thought to be less likely to suffer from "allergic" asthma and thus less likely to respond to type 2 helper t-cell (th2) targeted therapies. based on discussions with the fda, this phase 2b study may be considered one of two pivotal efficacy studies required for a potential dupilumab bla in asthma. the results presented in may 2015 focused on leos asthma patients. in this population, patients treated every other week with either 200 mg or 300 mg doses of dupilumab showed a greater than 8% improvement in forced expiratory volume over one second ((fev1), a standard measure of lung function) at week 12 (p&lt;0.001), in comparison to placebo, both in combination with ics/laba. additionally, the 200 mg and 300 mg every other week doses of dupilumab in combination with ics/laba showed 68% and 62% reductions, respectively, in adjusted annualized rate of severe exacerbations in the leos population (p&lt;0.01 and p&lt;0.05), in comparison to placebo in combination with ics/laba. these results are consistent with previously reported positive results in heos asthma patients and the overall patient population, in which the two every other week doses (200 mg and 300 mg) of dupilumab in combination with ics/laba demonstrated a statistically significant 12% to 15% improvement in fev1 over placebo at week 12 and a 64% to 75% improvement in annualized rate of severe exacerbations over placebo. dupilumab also significantly reduced mean fractional exhaled nitric oxide (feno) across both every other week doses tested (200 mg and 300 mg) and the three patient populations (overall, leos and heos), in a roughly dose-dependent manner. feno is recommended by the american thoracic society clinical practice guidelines to assess airway inflammation, since higher-than-normal levels of nitric oxide may be released when a patient has a chronic airway disease, such as asthma. the most common ae was injection site reaction, which was more frequent in the dupilumab dose groups (13% to 25%) compared to placebo (12%). other common aes in the study included upper respiratory tract infection (10% to 13% dupilumab; 13% placebo), headache (5% to 10% dupilumab; 8% placebo), nasopharyngitis (3% to 10% dupilumab; 6% placebo) and bronchitis (5% to 8% dupilumab; 8% placebo). the incidence of infections was balanced across treatment groups (42% to 45% dupilumab; 46% placebo), as was the incidence of serious aes (3% to 7% dupilumab; 5% placebo). these results were based on a pre-specified interim analysis, which occurred when all patients had reached week 12 of the 24-week treatment period; the average treatment duration at the time of the analysis was 21.4 weeks. the primary endpoint of the study was improvement from baseline in fev1 at week 12 in the heos group. 10 table of contents phase 3 study . a phase 3 trial, liberty asthma quest, in patients with uncontrolled persistent asthma was initiated in the second quarter of 2015. liberty asthma quest is expected to serve as the second required pivotal efficacy study, since, based on discussions with the fda, the phase 2b study will also be considered a pivotal efficacy study. the global, placebo-controlled phase 3 study is expected to enroll more than 1,600 patients with uncontrolled persistent asthma and will evaluate two doses of dupilumab, 200 mg and 300 mg, subcutaneously administered every other week. nasal polyposis phase 2 trial . in 2013, a phase 2 trial in npwcs was initiated. in september 2014, we and sanofi announced positive results from the phase 2 proof-of-concept study of dupilumab in patients with moderate-to-severe npwcs who did not respond to intranasal corticosteroids. the randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study enrolled 60 adult patients with moderate-to-severe npwcs. patients in the study received 300 mg of dupilumab, following an initial loading dose of 600 mg, or placebo, administered once per week subcutaneously for 16 weeks. all patients in the study also received a standard-of-care nasal corticosteroid spray. patients were eligible for the study if they continued to have severe npwcs despite standard treatment for at least one month. fifty percent of patients in the study had received prior surgery for their condition. asthma was also present in 58 percent of npwcs patients in the study. the conditions are often co-morbid and symptoms/exacerbations are frequently interdependent. in the study, dupilumab resulted in a statistically-significant decrease in the size of nasal polyps, as measured by endoscopic nasal polyp score (nps), the primary endpoint of the study. statistically significant improvements in all secondary efficacy endpoints were also observed, including objective measures of sinusitis by ct scan, nasal air flow, and patient-reported symptoms (sense of smell, congestion, postnasal drip, runny nose and sleep disturbance). in a pre-specified exploratory analysis, dupilumab-treated patients who also had asthma demonstrated significant improvements in asthma control. the safety profile was consistent with previous studies. the most common aes with dupilumab were injection site reactions, nasopharyngitis, oropharyngeal pain, epistaxis, headache, and dizziness. eosinophilic esophagitis phase 2 trial. a phase 2 trial of dupilumab in eosinophilic esophagitis was initiated in the first quarter of 2015. eoe is a chronic allergic inflammatory disease that is considered a major cause of gastrointestinal illness. eosinophils are a type of white blood cell that, due to allergens, can accumulate in the esophagus, causing inflammation and tissue injuries that create difficulty swallowing. people with eosinophilic esophagitis may also have allergies, asthma, atopic dermatitis, or chronic respiratory disease. regn2222 (rsv-f antibody) for rsv overview respiratory syncytial virus, or rsv, is a virus that infects the lungs and breathing passages. it is the most common cause of bronchiolitis (inflammation of the small airways) and is the second most common cause of death, globally, in the first year of life. rsv results in a significant healthcare burden, as it is the leading cause of infant hospitalizations in the united states. in addition to hospitalizations, rsv frequently results in emergency department, urgent care, and physicians' office visits. it is estimated that about half of all children will have an rsv infection by their first birthday. regn2222 is a fully human monoclonal antibody to the rsv-f protein. regn2222 was generated using our velocimmune technology. clinical program based on clinical results from a phase 1 study, a phase 3 pivotal clinical study of regn2222 (nursery pre-term) was initiated in the third quarter of 2015 and is currently enrolling patients. in october 2015, the fda granted fast track designation to regn2222 for the prevention of serious lower respiratory tract disease caused by rsv. fasinumab (regn475; ngf antibody) for pain due to osteoarthritis overview persistent osteoarthritic pain represents a growing unmet medical need. pain is a frequent reason for physician visits, a common reason for taking prescription medications, and a major cause of work disability and impaired quality of life. targeting ngf is a potential advance in pain management. ngf expression is elevated in many acute and chronic painful conditions and ngf blockade has demonstrated efficacy in various animal models of pain. fasinumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody to ngf, generated using our velocimmune technology. 11 table of contents clinical program a phase 2b/3 clinical study (16-weeks) in patients with pain due to osteoarthritis was initiated in the second quarter of 2015. in the first quarter of 2016, the fda confirmed that we may proceed with studies of longer than sixteen-week duration. research programs our preclinical research programs include the areas of oncology/immuno-oncology, angiogenesis, ophthalmology, metabolic and related diseases, muscle diseases and disorders, inflammation and immune diseases, bone and cartilage, pain and neurobiology, cardiovascular diseases, and infectious diseases. in september 2015, we and the biomedical advanced research and development authority (barda) of the u.s. department of health and human services (hhs) entered into an agreement to develop, test, and manufacture a monoclonal antibody therapy for the treatment of ebola virus infection. hhs will provide initial funding of approximately $17.0 million to support our preclinical development and antibody manufacturing. hhs also has the option to provide for up to an additional $32.2 million for a phase 1 study in healthy volunteers, and further manufacturing and development studies. research and development technologies many proteins that are either on the surface of or secreted by cells play important roles in biology and disease. one way that a cell communicates with other cells is by releasing specific signaling proteins, either locally or into the bloodstream. these proteins have distinct functions and are classified into different "families" of molecules, such as peptide hormones, growth factors, and cytokines. all of these secreted (or signaling) proteins travel to and are recognized by another set of proteins, called "receptors," which reside on the surface of responding cells. these secreted proteins impact many critical cellular and biological processes, causing diverse effects ranging from the regulation of growth of particular cell types to inflammation mediated by white blood cells. secreted proteins can at times be overactive and thus result in a variety of diseases. in these disease settings, blocking the action of specific secreted proteins can have clinical benefit. in other cases, proteins on the cell-surface can mediate the interaction between cells, such as the processes that give rise to inflammation and autoimmunity. our scientists have developed two different technologies to design protein therapeutics to block the action of specific cell surface or secreted proteins. the first technology, termed the "trap" technology, was used to generate eylea, zaltrap, and arcalyst. these novel "traps" are composed of fusions between two distinct receptor components and the constant region of an antibody molecule called the "fc region," resulting in high affinity product candidates. velocisuite is our second technology platform; it is used for discovering, developing, and producing fully human monoclonal antibodies that can address both secreted and cell-surface targets. velocisuite. velocisuite consists of velocimmune, velocigene, velocimouse , and velocimab . the velocimmune mouse platform is utilized to produce fully human monoclonal antibodies. velocimmune was generated by exploiting our velocigene technology (see below), in a process in which six megabases of mouse immune gene loci were replaced, or "humanized," with corresponding human immune gene loci. velocimmune mice can be used to generate efficiently fully human monoclonal antibodies to targets of therapeutic interest. velocimmune and our entire velocisuite offer the potential to increase the speed and efficiency through which human monoclonal antibody therapeutics may be discovered and validated, thereby improving the overall efficiency of our early stage drug development activities. we are utilizing the velocimmune technology to produce our next generation of drug candidates for preclinical and clinical development. our velocigene platform allows custom and precise manipulation of very large sequences of dna to produce highly customized alterations of a specified target gene, or genes, and accelerates the production of knock-out and transgenic expression models without using either positive/negative selection or isogenic dna. in producing knock-out models, a color or fluorescent marker may be substituted in place of the actual gene sequence, allowing for high-resolution visualization of precisely where the gene is active in the body during normal body functioning as well as in disease processes. for the optimization of preclinical development and pharmacology programs, velocigene offers the opportunity to humanize targets by replacing the mouse gene with the human homolog. thus, velocigene allows scientists to rapidly identify the physical and biological effects of deleting or over-expressing the target gene, as well as to characterize and test potential therapeutic molecules. our velocimouse technology platform allows for the direct and immediate generation of genetically altered mice from embryonic stem cells (es cells), thereby avoiding the lengthy process involved in generating and breeding knockout mice from chimeras. mice generated through this method are normal and healthy and exhibit a 100% germ-line transmission. furthermore, mice developed using our velocimouse technology are suitable for direct phenotyping or other studies. we have also developed our velocimab platform for the rapid screening of antibodies and rapid generation of expression cell lines for our traps and our velocimmune human monoclonal antibodies. 12 table of contents we have utilized our velocisuite technologies to develop a class of potential drug candidates, known as bi-specific antibodies. in the area of immunotherapies in oncology, we are exploring the use of bi-specific antibodies that target tumor antigens and the cd3 receptor on t-cells to harness the oncolytic properties of t-cells. our first such bi-specific antibody, which entered into clinical development in 2014, targets cd20 and cd3. regeneron genetics center. in 2014, we launched a new human genetics initiative via a wholly owned subsidiary, regeneron genetics center llc (rgc). rgc leverages de-identified clinical, genomic, and molecular data from human volunteers to identify medically relevant associations in a blinded fashion designed to preserve patients' privacy. the objective of rgc is to expand the use of human genetics for discovering and validating genetic factors that cause or influence a range of diseases where there are major unmet medical needs, with the prospect of improving the drug discovery and development process. rgc is undertaking multiple approaches, including large population-based efforts as well as family- and founder-based approaches. rgc utilizes laboratory automation and innovative approaches to cloud computing to achieve high-quality throughput at a rate that currently exceeds 100,000 unique samples sequenced per year. central to the work of rgc is a collaboration with the geisinger health system of pennsylvania. geisinger collects samples from consented patient volunteers, while rgc performs sequencing and genotyping to generate de-identified genomic data. in addition, rgc has expanded on its foundational population-based collaboration with geisinger with a growing number of other institutions worldwide, including columbia university medical center, the clinic for special children, baylor college of medicine, and sickkids in toronto. collaboration agreements collaborations with sanofi antibodies . since november 2007, we and sanofi have been parties to a global, strategic collaboration to discover, develop, and commercialize fully human monoclonal antibodies. the collaboration is governed by a discovery and preclinical development agreement (antibody discovery agreement) and a license and collaboration agreement (each as amended), collectively referred to as the antibody collaboration. pursuant to the antibody discovery agreement, as amended, sanofi was responsible for funding up to $160.0 million per year of our antibody discovery activities over the period from 2010-2017. however, in connection with the companies' july 2015 immuno-oncology collaboration as described below, the 2015-2017 amounts have been revised, and sanofi is now responsible for funding up to $145.0 million in 2015, and up to $130.0 million in each of 2016 and 2017 to identify and validate potential drug discovery targets and develop fully human monoclonal antibodies against these targets. our discovery activities to identify and validate potential drug discovery targets in the field of immuno-oncology and develop fully human monoclonal antibodies against these targets will now be funded by sanofi under the terms of the companies' new immuno-oncology collaboration. we lead the design and conduct of research activities under the antibody discovery agreement, including target identification and validation, antibody development, research and preclinical activities through filing of an investigational new drug application (ind) or its equivalent, toxicology studies, and manufacture of preclinical and clinical supplies. sanofi has an option to extend certain antibody development and preclinical activities relating to selected program targets for up to an additional three years after 2017. for each drug candidate identified through discovery research under the antibody discovery agreement, sanofi has the option to license rights to the candidate under the license and collaboration agreement. if it elects to do so, sanofi will co-develop the drug candidate with us through product approval. development costs for the drug candidate are shared between the companies, with sanofi generally funding these costs as they are incurred by us, except that following receipt of the first positive phase 3 trial results for a co-developed drug candidate, subsequent phase 3 trial-related costs for that drug candidate are shared 80% by sanofi and 20% by us. we are generally responsible for reimbursing sanofi for half of the total development costs for all collaboration antibody products from our share of profits from commercialization of collaboration products to the extent they are sufficient for this purpose. however, we are not required to apply more than 10% of our share of the profits from collaboration products in any calendar quarter towards reimbursing sanofi for these development costs. under our collaboration agreement, sanofi will record product sales and cost of sales for commercialized products, and regeneron has the right to co-promote such products. we have exercised our option to co-promote praluent, sarilumab, and dupilumab in the united states. we have not exercised our option to co-promote praluent outside the united states; however, we retain the right to do so at a future date subject to the terms of the collaboration agreement. we and sanofi will equally share profits and losses from sales within the united states. we and sanofi will share profits outside the united states on a sliding scale based on sales starting at 65% (sanofi)/35% (us) and ending at 55% (sanofi)/45% (us), and will share losses outside the united states at 55% (sanofi)/45% (us). in addition to profit sharing, we are entitled to receive up to $250.0 million in sales milestone payments, with milestone payments commencing after aggregate annual sales outside the united states exceed $1.0 billion on a rolling 12-month basis. 13 table of contents immuno-oncology. in july 2015, we and sanofi entered into a global strategic collaboration to discover, develop, and commercialize antibody-based cancer treatments in the field of immuno-oncology (the io collaboration). the io collaboration is governed by an immuno-oncology discovery and development agreement (io discovery agreement), and an immuno-oncology license and collaboration agreement (io license and collaboration agreement). in connection with the io discovery agreement, sanofi made a $265.0 million non-refundable up-front payment to us. pursuant to the io discovery agreement, we will spend up to $1,090.0 million (io discovery budget) to identify and validate potential immuno-oncology targets and develop therapeutic antibodies against such targets through clinical proof-of-concept. sanofi will reimburse us for up to $825.0 million (io discovery funding) of these costs, subject to certain annual limits, which consists of (i) $750.0 million in new funding and (ii) $75.0 million of funding that would have otherwise been available to regeneron under the existing antibody discovery agreement, as described above. the term of the io discovery agreement will continue through the later of five years from the effective date of the io collaboration or the date the io discovery budget is exhausted, subject to sanofi's option to extend it for up to an additional three years for the continued development (and funding) of selected ongoing programs. pursuant to the io discovery agreement, we will be primarily responsible for the design and conduct of all research activities, including target identification and validation, antibody development, preclinical activities, toxicology studies, manufacture of preclinical and clinical supplies, filing of ind applications, and clinical development through proof-of-concept. we will reimburse sanofi for half of the development costs they funded that are attributable to clinical development of antibody product candidates under the io discovery agreement from our share of future profits, if any, from commercialized products to the extent they are sufficient for this purpose. however, we are not required to apply more than 10% of our share of the profits from io collaboration products in any calendar quarter towards reimbursing sanofi for these development costs. with regard to product candidates for which proof-of-concept is established, sanofi will have the option to license rights to the product candidate pursuant to the io license and collaboration agreement (as further described below). if sanofi does not exercise its option to license rights to a product candidate, we will retain the exclusive right to develop and commercialize such product candidate and sanofi will be entitled to receive a royalty on sales. in connection with the io license and collaboration agreement, sanofi made a $375.0 million non-refundable up-front payment to us. if sanofi exercises its option to license rights to a product candidate thereunder, it will co-develop the drug candidate with us through product approval. principal control of development of each product candidate that enters development under the io license and collaboration agreement will alternate between us and sanofi on a candidate-by-candidate basis. sanofi will fund drug candidate development costs up front for the candidates for which it is the principal controlling party and we will reimburse half of the total development costs for all such candidates from our share of future profits to the extent they are sufficient for this purpose, subject to the same 10% reimbursement limitation described above. in addition, we and sanofi will share equally, on an ongoing basis, the development costs for the drug candidates for which we are the principal controlling party. the party having principal control over the development of a product candidate will also lead the commercialization activities for such product candidate in the united states. for all products commercialized under the io license and collaboration agreement, sanofi will lead commercialization activities outside of the united states. each party will have the right to co-promote licensed products in countries where it is not the lead commercialization party. the parties will share equally in profits and losses in connection with the commercialization of collaboration products. we are obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to supply clinical requirements of each drug candidate under the io license and collaboration agreement until commercial supplies of that io drug candidate are being manufactured. under the terms of the io license and collaboration agreement, the parties will also co-develop our antibody product candidate targeting pd-1 (regn2810). the parties will share equally, on an ongoing basis, development expenses for regn2810 up to a total of $650.0 million. we will have principal control over the development of regn2810 and will lead commercialization activities in the united states, subject to sanofi's right to co-promote, while sanofi will lead commercialization activities outside of the united states and the parties will equally share profits from worldwide sales. we will be entitled to a milestone payment of $375.0 million in the event that sales of all licensed products targeting pd-1 (including regn2810), together with sales of any other products licensed under the io license and collaboration agreement and sold for use in combination with a licensed product targeting pd-1, equal or exceed $2.0 billion in any consecutive twelve-month period. zaltrap . from september 2003 to february 2015, we and sanofi were parties to a global collaboration (zaltrap collaboration agreement) for the development and commercialization of zaltrap. in february 2015, we and sanofi entered into an amended zaltrap agreement. under the terms of the amended zaltrap agreement, sanofi is solely responsible for the development and commercialization of zaltrap for cancer indications worldwide. sanofi bears the cost of all development and commercialization activities and reimburses regeneron for its costs for any such activities. sanofi pays us a percentage of aggregate net sales of zaltrap during each calendar year, which percentage shall be from 15% to 30%, depending on the aggregate net sales of zaltrap in such calendar year. we will also be paid for all quantities of zaltrap manufactured by us pursuant to a supply agreement through the earlier of 2021 or the date sanofi receives regulatory approval to manufacture zaltrap at one of its facilities or a facility of a third party. in addition, regeneron no longer has a contingent contractual obligation (which was approximately $461 million at december 31, 2014) to reimburse sanofi for 50% of the development expenses that sanofi previously funded for the development of zaltrap under the zaltrap collaboration agreement. 14 table of contents collaborations with bayer healthcare eylea outside the united states . since october 2006, we and bayer healthcare have been parties to a license and collaboration agreement for the global development and commercialization outside the united states of eylea. under the agreement, we and bayer healthcare collaborate on, and share the costs of, the development of eylea through an integrated global plan. bayer healthcare markets eylea outside the united states, where, for countries other than japan, the companies share equally in profits and losses from sales of eylea. in japan, we are entitled to receive a tiered percentage of between 33.5% and 40.0% of eylea net sales. since inception of the agreement, we have earned $110.0 million of development milestone payments and $165.0 million of sales milestone payments from bayer healthcare. during the first quarter of 2015, we earned the final potential milestone payment under our bayer healthcare collaboration agreement in connection with eylea outside the united states. commencing with the first commercial sale of eylea in a major market country outside the united states, we became obligated to reimburse bayer healthcare for 50% of the development costs that it has incurred under the agreement from our share of the collaboration profits (including payments to us based on sales in japan). the reimbursement payment in any quarter will equal 5% of the then outstanding repayment obligation, but never more than our share of the collaboration profits in the quarter unless we elect to reimburse bayer healthcare at a faster rate. as a result, we expect that a portion of our share of eylea profits outside the united states will be used to reimburse bayer healthcare for this repayment obligation. within the united states, we retain exclusive commercialization rights to eylea and are entitled to all profits from any such sales. pdgfr-beta antibody outside the united states . in january 2014, we entered into an agreement with bayer healthcare governing the joint development and commercialization outside the united states of an antibody product candidate to pdgfr-beta, including in combination with eylea, for the treatment of ocular diseases or disorders. regn2176-3, a combination product candidate comprised of an antibody to pdgfr-beta co-formulated with eylea, is being developed under the agreement. under the agreement, we will conduct the initial development of the pdgfr-beta antibody through completion of the first proof-of-concept study, upon which bayer healthcare will have a right to opt-in to license and collaborate on further development and commercialization outside the united states. in connection with the agreement, bayer healthcare made a $25.5 million non-refundable up-front payment to us in january 2014, and is obligated to pay 25% of global development costs and 50% of development costs exclusively for the territory outside the united states under the initial development plan. in addition, bayer healthcare is obligated to reimburse us for 50% of development milestone payments to sanofi related to our acquisition of rights to antibodies targeting the pdgf family of receptors in may 2013. in that regard, bayer healthcare made a total of $5.0 million of development milestone payments to us in the 2014, and an additional $5.0 million development milestone payment to us in 2015. we are eligible to receive a $10.0 million additional future development milestone payment from bayer healthcare, although this payment could be reduced by half if bayer healthcare does not opt-in to the collaboration. if bayer healthcare exercises its right to opt-in to the collaboration, they will obtain exclusive commercialization rights to the product outside the united states, continue to pay for 25% of global development costs and 50% of development costs exclusively for the territory outside the united states, pay a $20.0 million opt-in payment to us, pay a $20.0 million development milestone to us upon receipt of the first marketing approval in the eu or japan, share profits and losses from sales outside the united states equally with us, and be responsible for the payment of royalties on sales outside the united states to sanofi. within the united states, we have exclusive commercialization rights and will retain all of the profits from sales. if bayer healthcare does not opt-in to the collaboration, we will have exclusive rights to develop and commercialize pdgfr-beta antibodies (except as a combination product with eylea) for use outside the united states. we also have the right to opt-out of the collaboration upon completion of the first proof-of-concept study for the pdgfr-beta antibody. if we opt-out of the collaboration and bayer healthcare exercises its right to opt-in to the collaboration, bayer healthcare will obtain exclusive rights to the pdgfr-beta antibody (except as a combination product with eylea) outside of the united states, be responsible for all development costs outside of the united states, be responsible for all royalty and milestone payments to a third party, and will retain all of the profits from sales of the pdgfr-beta antibody outside of the united states. collaboration with mitsubishi tanabe pharma fasinumab asia. in september 2015, we entered into a collaboration agreement with mitsubishi tanabe pharma corporation (mtpc) providing mtpc with development and commercial rights to fasinumab in japan, south korea, taiwan, indonesia, thailand, the philippines, malaysia, singapore, vietnam, myanmar, and sri lanka (the mtpc territories). in connection with the agreement, mtpc made a $10.0 million non-refundable up-front payment in 2015, and in the first quarter of 2016, mtpc 15 table of contents became obligated to make an additional $45.0 million payment to us. we are also entitled to receive up to an aggregate of $170.0 million in development milestone and other contingent payments. under the agreement, we are obligated to manufacture and supply mtpc with clinical and commercial supplies of fasinumab. if fasinumab is commercialized in the mtpc territories, we will supply the product to mtpc at a tiered purchase price, which ranges from 30% to 50% of net sales of the product (subject to adjustment in certain circumstances), and are eligible for additional payments up to an aggregate of $100.0 million upon the achievement of specified annual net sales amounts starting at $200 million. unless terminated earlier in accordance with its provisions, the agreement will continue to be in effect until such time as mtpc has ceased developing or commercializing fasinumab in the mtpc territories. manufacturing we currently manufacture bulk drug materials at our manufacturing facilities in rensselaer, new york, which consists of approximately 440,000 square feet of owned research, manufacturing, office, and warehouse space. we currently have approximately 76,000 liters of cell culture capacity at these facilities. at december 31, 2015, we employed approximately 1,325 people at our rensselaer facilities. in 2014, we acquired a 400,000 square foot facility in limerick, ireland. we are renovating this facility to accommodate and support our growth, primarily in connection with expanding our manufacturing capacity to support our global supply chain. certain raw materials or other products necessary for the manufacture and formulation of eylea, praluent, arcalyst, and our product candidates are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. in addition, we rely on certain third parties to perform packaging, filling, finishing, labeling, distribution, laboratory testing, and other services related to the manufacture of eylea, praluent, arcalyst, and our product candidates, and to supply various raw materials and other products. see part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to manufacturing and supply" for further information. among the conditions for regulatory marketing approval of a medicine is the requirement that the prospective manufacturer's quality control and manufacturing procedures conform to the good manufacturing practice (gmp) regulations of the health authority. in complying with standards set forth in these regulations, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money, and effort in the areas of production and quality control to ensure full technical compliance. manufacturing establishments, both foreign and domestic, are also subject to inspections by or under the authority of the fda and by other national, federal, state, and local agencies. we are approved to manufacture our marketed products at our rensselaer facilities. sales and marketing we have a new products marketing and planning group, a market research group, and a market access group to evaluate commercial opportunities for our targets and drug candidates, assess the competitive environment, and analyze the commercial potential of our product portfolio, and prepare for market launch of new products. these groups are fully functional to support our product and product candidates that we are independently developing and/or commercializing, and also work closely with our collaborators for co-developed products to develop marketing plans and forecasts and to develop and execute pre-launch market development programs. we also have a full-service commercialization group to handle various aspects of our commercial programs. the group includes experienced professionals in the fields of marketing, communications, professional education, patient education and advocacy, reimbursement and market access, trade and distribution, commercial operations, commercial analytics, market research, and forecasting. moreover, for eylea and praluent, we have hired, trained, and deployed a field-based organization including regional sales directors, medical sales specialists, and reimbursement managers, each typically with a number of years of experience in the biopharmaceutical industry in a variety of therapeutic areas including oncology, ophthalmology, immunology, and inflammation. hiring has commenced for our u.s. field teams for both sarilumab and dupilumab. we have approximately 70 field-based employees working on eylea and 330 field-based employees working on praluent. we have significantly expanded the commercialization group to support the launch of praluent in 2015. we outsource the warehousing and distribution of our finished drug products. in connection with the sales and marketing of arcalyst for caps, we have a marketing, trade, reimbursement, and distribution group to provide case management and reimbursement services to patients with caps and their treating physicians. 16 table of contents customers we sell eylea in the united states to several distributors and specialty pharmacies. we sell arcalyst in the united states to two specialty pharmacies. under these distribution models, the distributors and specialty pharmacies generally take physical delivery of product. for eylea, the distributors and specialty pharmacies generally sell the product directly to healthcare providers, whereas for arcalyst, the specialty pharmacies sell the product directly to patients. for the years ended december 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013, we recorded 67% , 73% , and 76% , respectively, of our total gross product revenue from sales to a single distributor, besse medical, which is a subsidiary of amerisourcebergen corporation. we are also a party to collaboration agreements with bayer healthcare and sanofi, whereby our collaborator is responsible for recording product sales of eylea outside the united states and global sales of praluent, respectively. competition we face substantial competition from pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and chemical companies. our competitors include genentech (a member of the roche group), roche, novartis ag, pfizer inc., allergan, inc., eli lilly and company, abbvie inc., merck &amp; co., inc., amgen inc., astrazeneca plc, bristol-myers squibb company, johnson &amp; johnson, glaxosmithkline plc, and others. many of our competitors have substantially greater research, preclinical, and clinical product development and manufacturing capabilities, and financial, marketing, and human resources than we do. competition from smaller competitors may also be or become more significant if those competitors acquire or discover patentable inventions, form collaborative arrangements, or merge with large pharmaceutical companies. even if we are able to commercialize additional product candidates, one or more of our competitors may have brought a competitive product to market earlier than us or may have obtained or obtain patent protection that dominates or adversely affects our activities or products. our ability to compete depends, to a great extent, on how fast we can develop safe and effective product candidates, complete clinical testing and approval processes, and supply commercial quantities of the product to the market. competition among product candidates approved for sale is based on efficacy, safety, reliability, availability, price, patent position, and other factors. 17 table of contents eylea. the following table provides an overview of the competitive landscape for eylea: competitor product/product candidate commercial or development status competitor indication territory lucentis (ranibizumab) approved novartis/genentech wet amd, dme, macular edema following rvo, choroidal neovascularization secondary to pathologic myopia, diabetic retinopathy in patients with dme, and other eye indications worldwide avastin (bevacizumab) (off-label) used to treat wet amd, dme, and macular edema following rvo roche/genentech wet amd, dme, and macular edema following rvo worldwide ozurdex (dexamethasone intravitreal implant) approved allergan dme, rvo worldwide iluvien (fluocinolone acetonide intravitreal implant) approved alimera sciences dme united states, eu conbercept approved in china for wet amd in development for other eye indications chengdu kanghong pharmaceutical group wet amd china fovista , an aptamer directed against pdgf-b in development (phase 3 trials initiated in 2013 evaluating multiple combinations of fovista, including lucentis + fovista, avastin + fovista, and eylea + fovista ) ophthotech corporation (in collaboration with roche/genentech and novartis) wet amd rth258 (esba1008), a single chain antibody fragment directed against vegf-a in development (non-inferiority phase 3 trial initiated in 2014 comparing rth258 and eylea) novartis wet amd abicipar pegol (anti-vegf-a-darpin ) in development (non-inferiority phase 3 trial initiated in 2015 comparing dosing regimens of abicipar pegol and lucentis) allergan wet amd and related conditions bi-specific antibody rg7716 in development (phase 2) roche/genentech wet amd lucentis port delivery system in development (phase 2) roche/genentech wet amd and related conditions pf582, a biosimilar to lucentis in development (phase 1/2) pfenex inc. (in collaboration with pfizer) wet amd and related conditions fyb201, a biosimilar to lucentis in development (phase 3) formycon ag (in collaboration with bioeq gmbh) wet amd and related conditions lmg324 in development (phase 1/2) novartis wet amd and related conditions 18 table of contents the table above is not exhaustive. for additional information regarding the substantial competition eylea faces, see part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to commercialization of eylea - the commercial success of eylea is subject to strong competition " and part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to commercialization of products - our marketed products are subject to significant competition, and our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if any are approved for marketing, may face significant competition. " praluent. the following table provides an overview of the competitive landscape for praluent: competitor product/product candidate commercial or development status competitor indication/target territory repatha tm (evolocumab) approved amgen pcsk9 inhibitor antibody; adjunct to diet and (i) maximally tolerated statin therapy for the treatment of adults with hefh or clinical atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, who require additional lowering of ldl-c or (ii) other ldl-lowering therapies in patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia who require additional lowering of ldl-c united states, canada, eu, japan bococizumab (rn316 / pf-04950615) in development (phase 3) pfizer antibody against pcsk9 ly3015014 in development (phase 2) eli lilly antibody against pcsk9 aln-pcssc in development (phase 2) alnylam pharmaceuticals, inc. (in collaboration with the medicines company) rnai molecule against pcsk9 (injectable, small molecule) anacetrapib in development (phase 3) merck cetp-inhibitor (oral, small molecule) amg-899 (ta-8995) in development (phase 2) amgen cetp inhibitor (oral, small molecule) etc-1002 (bempedoic acid) in development (phase 2) esperion therapeutics, inc. acl-inhibitor (oral, small molecule) cat-2054 in development (phase 2) catabasis pharmaceuticals, inc. srebp modulator (oral, small molecule) the table above is not exhaustive. for additional information regarding the substantial competition praluent faces, see part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to commercialization of praluent - the commercial success of praluent is subject to strong competition ." 19 table of contents monoclonal antibodies. our clinical candidates in development are all fully human monoclonal antibodies which were generated using our velocimmune technology. our antibody generation technologies and clinical candidates face competition from many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies using various technologies. numerous other companies are developing therapeutic antibody products. companies such as pfizer, johnson &amp; johnson, astrazeneca, amgen, biogen idec, inc., novartis, roche/genentech, bristol-myers squibb, abbvie, and glaxosmithkline have generated therapeutic products that are currently in development or on the market that are derived from recombinant dna that comprise human antibody sequences. astellas has licensed our velocimmune technology as part of their internal antibody development programs. the following table provides an overview of the competitive landscape for our antibody programs that are in late-stage clinical development. 20 table of contents regeneron antibody program competitor competitor product/product candidate commercial or development status target sarilumab (phase 3) target: il-6r roche actemra (tocilizumab) approved antibody against il-6r for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis johnson &amp; johnson (in collaboration with glaxosmithkline) sirukumab in development (phase 3) antibody against il-6 alder biopharmaceuticals, inc. clazakizumab in development (phase 2) antibody against il-6 ablynx (in collaboration with abbvie) alx-0061 in development (phase 2) antibody against il-6r r-pharm olokizumab in development (phase 2) antibody against il-6 pfizer pf-04236921 in development (phase 1/phase 2) antibody against il-6 roche sa 237 in development (phase 1/phase 3) antibody against il-6r ruyi gerilimzumab in development (phase 1) antibody against il-6 dupilumab (phase 2/phase 3) target: il-4r glaxosmithkline nucala (mepolizumab) approved antibody against il-5 teva reslizumab submitted for regulatory approval antibody against il-5 roche lebrikizumab in development (phase 3) antibody against il-13 astrazeneca benralizumab in development (phase 3) antibody against il-5r astrazeneca tralokinumab in development (phase 3) antibody against il-13 novartis qbx258 in development (phase 2) fixed dose combination of antibodies against il-4 and il-13 amgen amg-157 in development (phase 2) antibody against tslp fasinumab (phase 2b/ phase 3) target: ngf pfizer/eli lilly tanezumab in development (phase 3) antibody against ngf johnson &amp; johnson fulranumab in development (phase 3) antibody against ngf regn2222 (phase 3) target: rsv-f astrazeneca synagis (palivizumab) approved antibody against rsv-f protein astrazeneca/aimm therapeutics medi8897 in development (phase 2) antibody against rsv-f protein the table above is not exhaustive. for additional information regarding our antibody programs and the substantial competition they face, see "clinical programs" above and part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to commercialization of products - our marketed products are subject to significant competition, and our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if any are approved for marketing, may face significant competition ." 21 table of contents other areas. many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are attempting to discover new therapeutics for indications in which we invest substantial time and resources. in these and related areas, intellectual property rights have been sought and certain rights have been granted to competitors and potential competitors of ours, and we may be at a substantial competitive disadvantage in such areas as a result of, among other things, our lack of experience, trained personnel, and expertise. a number of corporate and academic competitors are involved in the discovery and development of novel therapeutics that are the focus of other research or development programs we are now conducting. many firms and entities are engaged in research and development in the areas of cytokines, interleukins, angiogenesis, and muscle conditions. some of these competitors are currently conducting advanced preclinical and clinical research programs in these areas. these and other competitors may have established substantial intellectual property and other competitive advantages. if any of these or other competitors announces a successful clinical study involving a product that may be competitive with one of our product candidates or the grant of marketing approval by a regulatory agency for a competitive product, such developments may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, cash flows, or future prospects. we also compete with academic institutions, governmental agencies, and other public or private research organizations, which conduct research, seek patent protection, and establish collaborative arrangements for the development and marketing of products that would provide royalties or other consideration for use of their technology. these institutions are becoming more active in seeking patent protection and licensing arrangements to collect royalties or other consideration for use of the technology they have developed. products developed in this manner may compete directly with products we develop. we also compete with others in acquiring technology from these institutions, agencies, and organizations. patents, trademarks, and trade secrets our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain patents, maintain trade secret protection, and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties (see part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to intellectual property and market exclusivity - we may be restricted in our development, manufacturing, and/or commercialization activities by patents or other proprietary rights of others, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed such patents or rights "). our policy is to file patent applications to protect technology, inventions, and improvements that we consider important to our business and operations. we hold an ownership interest in a number of issued patents in the united states and foreign countries with respect to our products and technologies. in addition, we hold an ownership interest in hundreds of patent applications in the united states and foreign countries. our patent portfolio includes granted patents and pending patent applications covering our velocisuite technologies, including our velocimmune mouse platform which produces fully human monoclonal antibodies. our issued patents covering these technologies generally expire between 2020 and 2030. however, we continue to file patent applications directed to improvements to these technology platforms. our patent portfolio also includes issued patents and pending applications relating to commercialized products and our product candidates in clinical development. these patents cover the proteins and dna encoding the proteins, manufacturing patents, method of use patents, and pharmaceutical compositions, as well as various methods of using the products. for each of eylea, praluent, arcalyst, and zaltrap, these patents generally expire between 2020 and 2029. however, the projected patent terms may be subject to extension based on potential patent term extensions in countries where such extensions are available. we also are the nonexclusive licensee of a number of additional patents and patent applications. in 2011, we and genentech entered into a non-exclusive license and partial settlement agreement relating to ophthalmic sales of eylea in the united states. pursuant to this agreement, we received a non-exclusive license to certain patents relating to vegf receptor proteins, known as the davis-smyth patents, and other technology patents. in 2013, we entered into an amended and restated non-exclusive license and settlement agreement with genentech; under the amended agreement, we received a worldwide non-exclusive license to the davis-smyth patents, and certain other patents, owned or co-owned by genentech for the prevention or treatment of human eye diseases and eye disorders through administration of eylea to the eye. also in 2013, we entered into a non-exclusive license and settlement agreement with genentech and sanofi under which we and sanofi received a worldwide non-exclusive license to the davis-smyth patents, and certain other patents, in all indications for human use other than the prevention or treatment of eye diseases and eye disorders through administration to the eye. in 2008 we entered into an amended and restated non-exclusive license agreement with cellectis s.a. pursuant to which we licensed certain patents and patent applications relating to a process for the specific replacement of a copy of a gene in the receiver genome by homologous recombination. we also have non-exclusive license agreements with amgen and other organizations for patent rights related to arcalyst. patent law relating to the patentability and scope of claims in the biotechnology field is evolving and our patent rights are subject to this additional uncertainty. the degree of patent protection that will be afforded to our products in the united states and 22 table of contents other important commercial markets is uncertain and is dependent upon the scope of protection decided upon by the patent offices, courts, and governments in these countries. there is no certainty that our existing patents or others, if obtained, will provide us protection from competition or provide commercial benefit. others may independently develop similar products or processes to those developed by us, duplicate any of our products or processes or, if patents are issued to us, design around any products and processes covered by our patents. we expect to continue, when appropriate, to file product and process applications with respect to our inventions. however, we may not file any such applications or, if filed, the patents may not be issued. patents issued to or licensed by us may be infringed by the products or processes of others. defense and enforcement of our intellectual property rights is expensive and time consuming, even if the outcome is favorable to us. it is possible that patents issued or licensed to us will be successfully challenged, that a court may find that we are infringing validly issued patents of third parties, or that we may have to alter or discontinue the development of our products or pay licensing fees to take into account patent rights of third parties (see part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to intellectual property and market exclusivity - we may be restricted in our development, manufacturing, and/or commercialization activities by patents or other proprietary rights of others, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed such patents or rights "). government regulation regulation by government authorities in the united states and foreign countries is a significant factor in the research, development, manufacture, and marketing of our products and our product candidates (see part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to commercialization of eylea - we and bayer healthcare are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight with respect to eylea. if we or bayer healthcare fail to maintain regulatory compliance for eylea, eylea marketing approval may be withdrawn, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. "; "risks related to commercialization of praluent - we and sanofi are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight with respect to praluent. if we or sanofi fail to maintain regulatory compliance for praluent, praluent marketing approval may be withdrawn, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition ."; and "risks related to maintaining approval of our marketed products and the development and obtaining approval of our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products - if we do not maintain regulatory approval for our marketed products, and obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, we will not be able to market or sell them, which would materially and negatively impact our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition." ). all of our product candidates will require regulatory approval before they can be commercialized. in particular, human therapeutic products are subject to rigorous preclinical and clinical trials and other pre-market approval requirements by the fda and foreign authorities. many aspects of the structure and substance of the fda and foreign pharmaceutical regulatory practices have been reformed during recent years, and continued reform is under consideration in a number of jurisdictions. the ultimate outcome and impact of such reforms and potential reforms cannot be predicted. the activities required before a product candidate may be marketed in the united states begin with preclinical tests. preclinical tests include laboratory evaluations and animal studies to assess the potential safety and efficacy of the product candidate and its formulations. the results of these studies must be submitted to the fda as part of an ind, which must be reviewed by the fda before proposed clinical testing can begin. typically, clinical testing involves a three-phase process. in phase 1, trials are conducted with a small number of subjects to determine the early safety profile of the product candidate. in phase 2, clinical trials are conducted with subjects afflicted with a specific disease or disorder to provide enough data to evaluate the preliminary safety, tolerability, and efficacy of different potential doses of the product candidate. in phase 3, large-scale clinical trials are conducted with patients afflicted with the specific disease or disorder in order to provide enough data to understand the efficacy and safety profile of the product candidate, as required by the fda. the results of the preclinical and clinical testing of a biologic product candidate are then submitted to the fda in the form of a bla for evaluation to determine whether the product candidate may be approved for commercial sale. in responding to a bla, the fda may grant marketing approval, request additional information, or deny the application. any approval required by the fda for any of our product candidates may not be obtained on a timely basis, or at all. the designation of a clinical trial as being of a particular phase is not necessarily indicative that such a trial will be sufficient to satisfy the parameters of a particular phase, and a clinical trial may contain elements of more than one phase notwithstanding the designation of the trial as being of a particular phase. the results of preclinical studies or early stage clinical trials may not predict long-term safety or efficacy of our compounds when they are tested or used more broadly in humans. approval of a product candidate by comparable regulatory authorities in foreign countries is generally required prior to commencement of marketing of the product in those countries. the approval procedure varies among countries and may involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain such approval may differ from that required for fda approval. 23 table of contents various federal, state, and foreign statutes and regulations also govern or influence the research, manufacture, safety, labeling, storage, record keeping, marketing, transport, and other aspects of pharmaceutical product candidates. the lengthy process of seeking these approvals and the compliance with applicable statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial resources. any failure by us or our collaborators or licensees to obtain, or any delay in obtaining, regulatory approvals could adversely affect the manufacturing or marketing of our products and our ability to receive product or royalty revenue. in addition to the foregoing, our present and future business will be subject to regulation under the united states atomic energy act, the clean air act, the clean water act, the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act, the national environmental policy act, the toxic substances control act, the resource conservation and recovery act, national restrictions, and other current and potential future local, state, federal, and foreign regulations. business segments we manage our business as one segment which includes all activities related to the discovery, development, and commercialization of pharmaceutical products for the treatment of serious medical conditions. employees as of december 31, 2015, we had approximately 4,300 full-time employees, of whom approximately 650 held a ph.d. and/or m.d., or pharmd degree. we believe that we have been successful in attracting skilled and experienced personnel in a highly competitive environment; however, competition for these personnel is intense. none of our personnel are covered by collective bargaining agreements and our management considers its relations with our employees to be good. corporate information we were incorporated in the state of new york in 1988 and publicly listed in 1991. our principal executive offices are located at 777 old saw mill river road, tarrytown, new york 10591, and our telephone number at that address is (914) 847-7000. we make available free of charge on or through our internet website ( http://www.regeneron.com ) our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the securities and exchange commission (sec). investors and other interested parties should note that we use our media and investor relations website ( http://newsroom.regeneron.com ) and our social media channels to publish important information about regeneron, including information that may be deemed material to investors. we encourage investors and other interested parties to review the information we may publish through our media and investor relations website and the social media channels listed on our media and investor relations website, in addition to our sec filings, press releases, conference calls, and webcasts. item 1a. risk factors we operate in an environment that involves a number of significant risks and uncertainties. we caution you to read the following risk factors, which have affected, and/or in the future could affect, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. the risks described below include forward-looking statements, and actual events and our actual results may differ materially from these forward-looking statements. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. furthermore, additional risks and uncertainties are described under other captions in this report and should also be considered by our investors. risks related to commercialization of eylea we are substantially dependent on the success of eylea. if we or bayer healthcare are unable to continue to successfully commercialize eylea, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition will be materially harmed. eylea net sales represent a substantial portion of our revenues and this concentration of our net sales in a single product makes us substantially dependent on that product. for the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, eylea net sales in the united states represented 65% and 62% of our total revenues, respectively. if we were to experience difficulty with the commercialization of eylea in the united states, if bayer healthcare were to experience any difficulty with the commercialization of eylea outside the united states, or if we and bayer healthcare are unable to maintain current marketing approvals of eylea, we may experience a reduction in revenue and may not be able to sustain profitability, and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be materially harmed. we expect that the continued commercial success of eylea will depend on many factors, including the following: 24 table of contents effectiveness of the commercial strategy in and outside the united states for the marketing of eylea, including pricing strategy and the continued effectiveness of efforts to obtain, and the timing of obtaining, adequate third-party reimbursements; maintaining and successfully monitoring commercial manufacturing arrangements for eylea with third parties who perform fill/finish or other steps in the manufacture of eylea to ensure that they meet our standards and those of regulatory authorities, including the fda, which extensively regulate and monitor pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities; our ability to meet the demand for commercial supplies of eylea; our ability to effectively communicate to the marketplace the benefits of the dosing regimen of eylea as compared to the dosing regimen of lucentis, and the willingness of retinal specialists and patients to switch from lucentis or off-label use of repackaged avastin to eylea or to start treatment with eylea; the ability of patients, retinal specialists, and other providers to obtain and maintain sufficient coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid in the united states and other government and private payers in the united states and foreign jurisdictions; our ability to maintain sales of eylea in the face of competitive products, including those currently in clinical development; and the effect of existing and new health care laws and regulations currently being considered or implemented in the united states, including reporting and disclosure requirements of such laws and regulations and the potential impact of such requirements on physician prescription practices. more detailed information about the risks related to the commercialization of eylea is provided in the risk factors below. we and bayer healthcare are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight with respect to eylea. if we or bayer healthcare fail to maintain regulatory compliance for eylea, eylea marketing approval may be withdrawn, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. we and bayer healthcare are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight with respect to eylea for its currently approved indications in the united states, eu, and other countries where the product is approved. if we or bayer healthcare fail to maintain regulatory compliance for eylea for its currently approved indications (including for any of the reasons discussed below under "risks related to maintaining approval of our marketed products and the development and obtaining approval of our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products - obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval for drug products is costly, time-consuming, and highly uncertain "), eylea marketing approval may be withdrawn, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. failure to comply may also subject us to sanctions, product recalls, or withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications. see also "risks related to manufacturing and supply - if we fail to meet the stringent requirements of governmental regulation in the manufacture of drug products or product candidates, we could incur substantial remedial costs, delays in the development or approval of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products and/or in their commercial launch if they obtain regulatory approval, and a reduction in sales " below. serious complications or side effects in connection with the use of eylea could materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. serious complications or serious, unexpected side effects in connection with the use of eylea could materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. for additional information about some of these risks, see "risks related to maintaining approval of our marketed products and the development and obtaining approval of our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products - serious complications or side effects in connection with the use of our products and in clinical trials for our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products could cause our regulatory approvals to be revoked or limited or lead to delay or discontinuation of development of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, which could severely harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition " below. 25 table of contents sales of eylea are dependent on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payers, and changes to such reimbursement may materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. our sales in the united states of eylea are dependent, in large part, on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payers, including private payer healthcare and insurance programs, health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit management companies, and government programs such as medicare and medicaid. sales of eylea in other countries are dependent, in large part, on similar programs in those countries. in the united states, there is an increased focus from the federal government and others on analyzing the impact of various regulatory programs on the federal deficit, which could result in increased pressure on federal programs to reduce costs, including limiting federal healthcare expenditures. for example, in september 2011 the office of inspector general (oig) of the department of health and human services issued a report entitled "review of medicare part b avastin and lucentis treatments for age-related macular degeneration" in which the oig details possible savings to the medicare program by using off-label, repackaged avastin rather than lucentis for the treatment of wet amd. economic pressure on state budgets may also have a similar impact. a reduction in the availability or extent of reimbursement from u.s. government programs could have a material adverse effect on the sales of eylea. in addition, other third-party payers (including pharmacy benefit management companies) are challenging the prices charged for healthcare products and increasingly limiting, and attempting to limit, both coverage and level of reimbursement for prescription drugs. since eylea is too expensive for most patients to afford without health insurance coverage, if adequate coverage and reimbursement by third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid in the united states, is not available, our ability to successfully commercialize eylea will be materially adversely impacted. our sales and potential profits and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be materially harmed. see also "risks related to commercialization of products - the successful commercialization of our marketed products, as well as our late-stage product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if approved, will depend on obtaining and maintaining coverage and reimbursement for use of these products from third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid in the united states, and these payers may not cover or adequately reimburse for use of our products or may do so at levels that make our products uncompetitive and/or unprofitable, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition " below. the commercial success of eylea is subject to strong competition. the market for eye disease products is very competitive (an overview of the competitive landscape for eylea is provided in part i, item 1. "business - competition - eylea "). for example, novartis and genentech/roche are collaborating on the commercialization and further development of a vegf antibody fragment, lucentis, for the treatment of various eye indications. lucentis was approved by the fda in june 2006 for the treatment of wet amd, in june 2010 for the treatment of macular edema following rvo (including crvo and brvo), in august 2012 for the treatment of dme, and in february 2015 for the treatment of diabetic retinopathy in patients with dme. lucentis was also approved by the ema for wet amd in january 2007, for dme in january 2011, for the treatment of macular edema following rvo (including crvo and brvo) in june 2011, and for mcnv in july 2013. competitors are also exploring the development of a biosimilar version of lucentis; in particular, pfenex inc. (in collaboration with pfizer) is developing pf582 (currently in a phase 1b/2a trial in patients with wet amd), and formycon ag (in collaboration with bioeq gmbh) is developing fyb201 (currently in a phase 3 trial in patients with wet amd). other competitive or potentially competitive products include allergan's ozurdex (approved by the fda in june 2009 for the treatment of macular edema following rvo and in september 2014 for the treatment of dme) and alimera sciences' iluvien (approved by the fda in september 2014 for the treatment of dme in patients who have been previously treated with a course of corticosteroids and did not have a clinically significant rise in intraocular pressure), both of which are intravitreal implants of corticosteroids. many other companies are working on the development of product candidates and extended delivery devices for the potential treatment of wet amd, dme, and rvo, including those that act by blocking vegf and vegf receptors, as well as small interfering ribonucleic acids (sirnas) that modulate gene expression. for example, genentech/roche is developing a lucentis port delivery system implant (currently in a phase 2 study in patients with wet amd). novartis is developing rth258 (esba1008), a humanized monoclonal single-chain fv (scfv) antibody fragment targeting vegf-a for wet amd, and initiated a non-inferiority phase 3 trial comparing rth258 and eylea in december 2014. allergan is developing abicipar pegol (an anti-vegf-a darpin) for wet amd and related conditions (currently studied in phase 3 trials against lucentis as a comparator drug). additionally, companies are developing products (or combinations of products) to treat wet amd that act by blocking vegf and vegf receptors, as well as other targets (for example, pdgf). ophthotech corporation (in collaboration with genentech/roche) is developing fovista, an aptamer directed against platelet-derived growth factor subunit b (pdgf-b), as a product candidate intended to be used in combination with an anti-vegf therapy in wet amd. in 2013, ophthotech initiated phase 3 trials in amd evaluating multiple combinations of fovista, including lucentis + fovista, avastin + fovista, and eylea + fovista. genentech/roche is developing a bi-specific antibody targeting both vegf and ang2 for wet amd (currently in a phase 2 trial in patients with wet amd). competitors are also developing eye-drop formulations, oral therapies, and gene/cell therapies for various indications that, if approved, would compete with eylea in one or more of its currently approved indications. 26 table of contents in addition, ophthalmologists are using with success off-label, third-party repackaged versions of genentech/roche's approved vegf antagonist, avastin, for the treatment of wet amd, dme, and rvo. the relatively low cost of therapy with repackaged avastin in patients with wet amd presents a significant competitive challenge in this indication. competitors (including amgen) are also developing a biosimilar version of avastin. long-term, controlled clinical trials comparing lucentis to avastin in the treatment of wet amd are being conducted. one-year data from the comparison of age-related macular degeneration treatments trial (catt) were reported in april 2011 and indicated that avastin dosed monthly was non-inferior to lucentis dosed monthly in the primary efficacy endpoint of mean visual acuity gain at 52 weeks. two-year data from catt were reported in april 2012 and indicated that monthly avastin was non-inferior to monthly lucentis in mean visual acuity gain; as-needed dosing was not non-inferior to monthly dosing. avastin is also being evaluated in eye diseases in trials that have been initiated in the united kingdom, canada, brazil, mexico, germany, israel, and other countries. furthermore, lucentis and off-label use of repackaged avastin present significant competitive challenges as doctors and patients have had significant experience using these medicines. moreover, the reported results of the catt study, combined with the relatively low cost of repackaged avastin in treating patients with wet amd, may exacerbate the competitive challenge which eylea faces in this or other eye indications for which it is approved. finally, zaltrap has not been manufactured and formulated for use in intravitreal injections, and while we believe that zaltrap would not be well tolerated if administered directly to the eye, there is a risk that third parties may attempt to repackage zaltrap for off-label use and sale for the treatment of wet amd and other diseases of the eye, which would present a potential low-cost competitive threat to eylea for its approved indications. see also "risks related to commercialization of products - we may be unsuccessful in continuing the commercialization of our marketed products or in commercializing our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if approved, which would materially and adversely affect our business, profitability, and future prospects " below. we rely on our collaboration with bayer healthcare for commercializing eylea. while we have established our own sales and marketing organization for eylea in the united states for its currently approved indications, our commercialization experience is still relatively limited and we have no sales, marketing, commercial, or distribution capabilities for eylea outside the united states. under the terms of our license and collaboration agreement with bayer healthcare (which is terminable by bayer healthcare at any time upon six or twelve months' advance notice), we rely on bayer healthcare for sales, marketing, and distribution of eylea in countries outside the united states. if we and bayer healthcare are unsuccessful in continuing to commercialize eylea, our ability to sustain profitability would be materially impaired. we have limited commercial capabilities outside the united states and would have to develop or outsource these capabilities. therefore, termination of the bayer healthcare collaboration agreement would create substantial new and additional risks to the successful development and commercialization of eylea, particularly outside the united states. for additional information regarding our collaboration with bayer healthcare, see "risks related to our reliance on third parties - if our collaboration with bayer healthcare for eylea is terminated, or bayer healthcare materially breaches its obligations thereunder, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition, and our ability to continue to develop eylea and commercialize eylea outside the united states in the time expected, or at all, would be materially harmed " below. sales of eylea recorded by us and bayer healthcare could be reduced by imports from countries where eylea may be available at lower prices. our sales of eylea in the united states and bayer healthcare's sales of eylea in other countries may be reduced if eylea is imported into those countries from lower priced markets, whether legally or illegally (a practice known as parallel trading or reimportation). parallel traders (who may repackage or resize the original product or sell it through alternative channels such as mail order or the internet) take advantage of the price differentials between markets arising from factors including sales costs, market conditions (such as intermediate trading stages), tax rates, or national regulation of prices. under our arrangement with bayer healthcare, pricing and reimbursement for eylea outside the united states is the responsibility of bayer healthcare. prices for eylea in territories outside the united states are based on local market economics and competition and are likely to differ from country to country. in the united states, prices for pharmaceuticals are generally higher than in the bordering nations of canada and mexico and our sales of eylea in the united states may be reduced if eylea marketed in those nations is imported into the united states. parallel-trading practices also are of particular relevance to the eu, where they have been encouraged by the current regulatory framework. these types of imports may exert pressure on the pricing of eylea in a particular market or reduce our or bayer healthcare's sales, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations. in addition, there have been proposals to legalize the import of pharmaceuticals from outside the united states. if such legislation were enacted, our future revenues derived from eylea sales could be reduced. 27 table of contents risks related to commercialization of praluent if we and sanofi are unable to successfully commercialize praluent, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed. we expect that the commercial success of praluent will depend on many factors, including the following: effectiveness of the commercial strategy in and outside the united states for the marketing of praluent, including pricing strategy and the effectiveness of efforts to obtain, and the timing of obtaining, adequate third-party reimbursements; our and sanofi's ability to effectively communicate to the marketplace the benefits of praluent; the ability of patients and providers to obtain and maintain sufficient coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid in the united states and other government and private payers in the united states and foreign jurisdictions; our and sanofi's ability to maintain sales of praluent in the face of competitive products, including amgen's repatha, as well as product candidates currently in clinical development; the results of post-approval studies of praluent (including the ongoing odyssey outcomes trial prospectively assessing the potential of praluent to demonstrate cardiovascular benefit), whether conducted by us or by others and whether mandated by regulatory agencies or voluntary, and other data about praluent (or data about products similar to praluent that implicate an entire class of products or are perceived to do so); our ability to meet the demand for commercial supplies of praluent; the effect of existing and new health care laws and regulations currently being considered or implemented in the united states, including reporting and disclosure requirements of such laws and regulations and the potential impact of such requirements on physician prescription practices; and maintaining and successfully monitoring commercial manufacturing arrangements for praluent with third parties who perform fill/finish or other steps in the manufacture of praluent to ensure that they meet our standards and those of regulatory authorities, including the fda, which extensively regulate and monitor pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities. more detailed information about the risks related to the commercialization of praluent is provided in the risk factors below. we and sanofi are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight with respect to praluent. if we or sanofi fail to maintain regulatory compliance for praluent, praluent marketing approval may be withdrawn, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. we and sanofi are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight with respect to praluent for its currently approved indications in the united states and the eu. if we or sanofi fail to maintain regulatory compliance for praluent for its currently approved indications (including because praluent does not meet the relevant endpoints of any required post-approval studies, such as the ongoing odyssey outcomes trial, or for any of the other reasons discussed below under "risks related to maintaining approval of our marketed products and the development and obtaining approval of our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products - obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval for drug products is costly, time-consuming, and highly uncertain "), praluent marketing approval may be withdrawn, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. failure to comply may also subject us to sanctions, product recalls, or withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications. see also "risks related to manufacturing and supply - if we fail to meet the stringent requirements of governmental regulation in the manufacture of drug products or product candidates, we could incur substantial remedial costs, delays in the development or approval of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products and/or in their commercial launch if they obtain regulatory approval, and a reduction in sales " below. serious complications or side effects in connection with the use of praluent could materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. serious complications or serious, unexpected side effects in connection with the use of praluent could materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. for additional information about some of these risks, see "risks related to maintaining approval of our marketed products and the development and obtaining approval of our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products - serious complications or side effects in connection with the use of our products and in clinical trials for our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products could cause our regulatory approvals to be revoked or limited or lead to delay or discontinuation of development of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, which could severely harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition " below. 28 table of contents sales of praluent are dependent on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payers in the united states and other countries, and changes to such reimbursement may materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. sales in the united states of praluent are dependent, in large part, on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payers, including private payer healthcare and insurance programs, health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit management companies, and government programs such as medicare and medicaid. sales of praluent in other countries are dependent, in large part, on similar reimbursement mechanisms and programs in those countries. government and other third-party payers (including pharmacy benefit management companies) are challenging the prices charged for healthcare products and increasingly limiting, and attempting to limit, both coverage and level of reimbursement for prescription drugs. for example, pharmacy benefit management companies often develop formularies to reduce their cost for medications. the breadth of the products covered by formularies varies considerably from one pharmacy benefit management company to another. failure to be included in such formularies or to achieve favorable formulary status may negatively impact the utilization and market share of praluent. if praluent is not included within an adequate number of formularies, adequate reimbursement levels are not provided, or the eligible insured patient population for praluent is limited, this could have a material adverse effect on our and sanofi's ability to commercialize praluent. in the united states, there also is an increased focus from the federal government and others on analyzing the impact of various regulatory programs on the federal deficit, which could result in increased pressure on federal programs to reduce costs, including limiting federal healthcare expenditures. economic pressure on state budgets may also have a similar impact. a reduction in the availability or extent of reimbursement from u.s. government programs could have a material adverse effect on the sales of praluent. since praluent is too expensive for most patients to afford without health insurance coverage, if adequate coverage and reimbursement by third-party payers in the united states and other countries, including medicare and medicaid in the united states, is not available, our ability to successfully commercialize praluent will be materially adversely impacted. our sales and potential profits and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be materially harmed. see also "risks related to commercialization of products - the successful commercialization of our marketed products, as well as our late-stage product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if approved, will depend on obtaining and maintaining coverage and reimbursement for use of these products from third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid in the united states, and these payers may not cover or adequately reimburse for use of our products or may do so at levels that make our products uncompetitive and/or unprofitable, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition " below. the commercial success of praluent is subject to strong competition. there is significant actual and potential future competition for praluent (an overview of the competitive landscape for praluent is provided in part i, item 1. "business - competition - praluent "). amgen's pcsk9 program is currently the most advanced of the competitors, having already received regulatory approval from the fda and marketing authorization from the european commission for its pcsk9 inhibitor repatha. amgen may obtain marketing approval for repatha in one or more additional countries before praluent is approved in those countries. several other companies, including pfizer, also have development programs for antibodies against pcsk9. alnylam, in collaboration with the medicines company, has a clinical program underway with an rnai molecule against pcsk9. in addition, there are therapeutic products targeting pcsk9 operating through other mechanisms of action in development, including an oral product. oral products that lower ldl-c, if approved, may also be competitive with pcsk9 inhibitors, including praluent. certain late-stage inhibitors of cholesterylester transfer protein (cetp), such as merck's anacetrapib, lower ldl-c and may be launched with supporting data from outcomes trials prior to the completion of our own outcomes trial for praluent. other oral agents for lowering ldl-c that may potentially compete with praluent include etc-1002 and cat-2054, which are being developed by esperion therapeutics and catabasis pharmaceuticals, respectively. we rely on our antibody collaboration with sanofi for commercializing praluent. in accordance with the terms of our antibody collaboration with sanofi, we have elected to co-promote praluent with sanofi in the united states. as such, we continue to rely in part on sanofi's sales and marketing organization in the united states. if we and sanofi fail to coordinate our united states sales and marketing efforts effectively, sales of praluent may be materially affected. sanofi also maintains other important responsibilities relating to praluent in the united states. for example, sanofi records product sales and cost of sales for praluent in the united states, serves as the lead regulatory party ( e.g. , is responsible for regulatory filings and negotiations relating to praluent in the united states), and leads negotiations with payors. 29 table of contents we also rely on sanofi for sales, marketing, and distribution of praluent in countries outside the united states. if we and sanofi are unsuccessful in commercializing praluent, or if sanofi terminates the antibody collaboration with us, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially impaired. we have limited commercial capabilities outside the united states and would have to develop or outsource these capabilities for praluent. therefore, termination of our antibody collaboration would create substantial new and additional risks to the successful commercialization of praluent, particularly outside the united states. for additional information regarding our antibody collaboration with sanofi, see "risks related to our reliance on third parties - if any of our collaborations with sanofi is terminated, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition, and our ability to discover, develop, manufacture, and commercialize our pipeline of product candidates in the time expected, or at all, would be materially harmed " below. sales of praluent recorded by sanofi could be reduced by imports from countries where praluent may be available at lower prices. sales of praluent recorded by sanofi in the united states and other countries (which impact our share of any profits or losses from the commercialization of praluent under our antibody collaboration with sanofi and, therefore, our results of operations) may be reduced if praluent is imported into those countries from lower priced markets, whether legally or illegally (a practice known as parallel trading or reimportation). parallel traders (who may repackage or resize the original product or sell it through alternative channels such as mail order or the internet) take advantage of the price differentials between markets arising from factors including sales costs, market conditions (such as intermediate trading stages), tax rates, or national regulation of prices. under our antibody collaboration with sanofi, pricing and reimbursement for praluent outside the united states is the responsibility of sanofi. prices for praluent in territories outside the united states are based on local market economics and competition and are likely to differ from country to country. in the united states, prices for pharmaceuticals are generally higher than in the bordering nations of canada and mexico and sales of praluent in the united states that are recorded by sanofi may be reduced if praluent marketed in those bordering nations is imported into the united states. parallel-trading practices also are of particular relevance to the eu, where they have been encouraged by the current regulatory framework. these types of imports may exert pressure on the pricing of praluent in a particular market or the sales recorded by sanofi, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations. in addition, there have been proposals to legalize the import of pharmaceuticals from outside the united states. if such legislation were enacted, our future revenues derived from praluent sales could be reduced. risks related to maintaining approval of our marketed products and the development and obtaining approval of our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products if we do not maintain regulatory approval for our marketed products, and obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, we will not be able to market or sell them, which would materially and negatively impact our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. we cannot sell or market products without regulatory approval. if we do not maintain regulatory approval for our marketed products, and obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates or new indications of our marketed products, the value of our company and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition will be materially harmed. if we are unable to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, or if we are materially delayed in doing so, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed. obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval for drug products is costly, time-consuming, and highly uncertain. in the united states, we must obtain and maintain approval from the fda for each drug we intend to sell. obtaining fda approval is typically a lengthy and expensive process, and approval is highly uncertain. we cannot predict with certainty if or when we might submit for regulatory approval any of our product candidates currently under development. any approvals we may obtain may not cover all of the clinical indications for which we are seeking approval. also, an approval might contain significant limitations in the form of narrow indications, warnings, precautions, or contra-indications with respect to conditions of use. the fda has substantial discretion in the approval process (including with respect to setting specific conditions for submission) and may either refuse to accept an application for substantive review or may form the opinion after review of an application that the application is insufficient to allow approval of a product candidate. if the fda does not accept our application for review or approve our application, it may require that we conduct additional clinical, preclinical, or manufacturing validation studies and submit the data before it will reconsider our application. depending on the extent of these or any other studies that might be required, approval of any applications that we submit may be delayed significantly, or we may be required to expend more resources. it is also possible that any such additional studies, if performed and completed, may not be considered sufficient by the fda to make our applications approvable. if any of these outcomes occur, we may be forced to delay or abandon our applications for approval. the fda may also require us to conduct additional clinical trials after granting approval of a product. its ability to do so has been enhanced by the food and drug administration amendments act of 2007, pursuant to which the fda has the explicit authority 30 table of contents to require postmarketing studies (also referred to as post-approval or phase 4 studies), labeling changes based on new safety information, and compliance with fda-approved risk evaluation and mitigation strategies. post-approval studies, whether conducted by us or by others and whether mandated by regulatory agencies or voluntary, and other data about our marketed products (or data about products similar to our marketed products that implicate an entire class of products or are perceived to do so) may result in changes in product labeling, restrictions on use, product withdrawal or recall, loss of approval, or lower sales of our products. according to the fda policies under the prescription drug user fee act, the fda system of review times for new drugs includes standard review and priority review. standard review can be accomplished in a ten-month time frame from the time the application is filed by the fda (filing date), which typically occurs approximately 60 days following submission of the application by the applicant. the fda has stated the goal to act on 90% of standard new molecular entity (nme) new drug application (nda) and original bla submissions within 10 months of the filing date. a priority review designation is given to drugs that treat a serious condition and offer major advances in treatment, or provide a treatment where no adequate therapy exists, and may also be afforded to a human drug application based on a priority review voucher. the fda has stated the goal to act on 90% of priority nme nda and original bla submissions within 6 months of the filing date. however, the fda's review goals are subject to change and the duration of the fda's review depends on a number of factors, including the number and types of other applications that are submitted to the fda around the same time period or are pending. even if any of our applications receives a priority review designation, we may not ultimately be able to obtain approval of our application within a time frame consistent with the fda's stated review goals or at all, and such designation may not actually lead to a faster development or regulatory review or approval process. the fda enforces good clinical practices (gcps) and other regulations through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, clinical research organizations (cros), principal investigators, and trial sites. if we or any of the third parties conducting our clinical studies are determined to have failed to fully comply with gcps, the study protocol or applicable regulations, the clinical data generated in those studies may be deemed unreliable. this could result in non-approval of our product candidates by the fda, or we or the fda may decide to conduct additional audits or require additional clinical studies, which would delay our development programs, require us to incur additional costs, and could substantially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. before approving a new drug or biologic product, the fda requires that the facilities at which the product will be manufactured or advanced through the supply chain be in compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cgmp, requirements and regulations governing the manufacture, shipment, and storage of the product. these cgmp requirements and regulations are not prescriptive instructions on how to manufacture products, but rather a series of principles that must be observed during manufacturing; as a result, their implementation may not be clearly delineated and may present a challenging task. manufacturing product candidates in compliance with these regulatory requirements is complex, time-consuming, and expensive. to be successful, our products must be manufactured in compliance with regulatory requirements, and at competitive costs. if we or any of our product collaborators, or third-party manufacturers, product packagers, labelers, or other parties performing steps in the supply chain are unable to maintain regulatory compliance, the fda can impose regulatory sanctions, including, among other things, refusal to approve a pending application for a new drug or biologic product, or revocation of a pre-existing approval. as a result, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed. in addition to the fda and other regulatory agency regulations in the united states, we are subject to a variety of foreign regulatory requirements governing human clinical trials, manufacturing, marketing and approval of drugs, and commercial sale and distribution of drugs in foreign countries. the foreign regulatory approval process is similarly likely to be a lengthy and expensive process, the result of which is highly uncertain, and foreign regulatory requirements include all of the risks associated with fda approval as well as country specific regulations. in addition, actions by a regulatory agency in a country or region with respect to a product candidate may have an impact on the approval process for that product candidate in another country or region. foreign regulatory authorities often also have the authority to require post-approval studies, which involve various risks similar to those described above. whether or not we obtain fda approval for a product in the united states, we must obtain approval of the product by the comparable regulatory authorities in foreign countries before we can conduct clinical trials of or market that product or any other product in those countries. preclinical and clinical studies required for our product candidates and new indications of our marketed products are expensive and time-consuming, and their outcome is highly uncertain. if any such studies are delayed or yield unfavorable results, regulatory approval for our product candidates or new indications of our marketed products may be delayed or become unobtainable. as described above, we must conduct extensive testing of our product candidates and new indications of our marketed products before we can obtain regulatory approval to market and sell them. we need to conduct both preclinical animal testing and human clinical trials. conducting such studies is a lengthy, time-consuming, and expensive process. these tests and trials may not achieve favorable results for many reasons, including, among others, failure of the product candidate to demonstrate safety or efficacy, 31 table of contents the development of serious or life-threatening adverse events (or side effects) caused by or connected with exposure to the product candidate, difficulty in enrolling and maintaining subjects in a clinical trial, lack of sufficient supplies of the product candidate or comparator drug, and the failure of clinical investigators, trial monitors, contractors, consultants, or trial subjects to comply with the trial plan, protocol, or applicable regulations related to good laboratory practices (glps) or gcps. a clinical trial may fail because it did not include and retain a sufficient number of patients to detect the endpoint being measured or reach statistical significance. a clinical trial may also fail because the dose(s) of the investigational drug included in the trial were either too low or too high to determine the optimal effect of the investigational drug in the disease setting. we will need to reevaluate any drug candidate that does not test favorably and either conduct new studies, which are expensive and time consuming, or abandon that drug development program. if preclinical testing yields unfavorable results, product candidates may not advance to clinical trials. the failure of clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of our clinical candidates for the desired indication(s) would preclude the successful development of those candidates for such indication(s), in which event our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed. successful development of our current and future product candidates is uncertain. only a small minority of all research and development programs ultimately result in commercially successful drugs. clinical trials may not demonstrate statistically sufficient effectiveness and safety to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for these product candidates in these indications. many companies in the biopharmaceutical industry, including our company, have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, even after promising results have been obtained in earlier trials. in a number of instances, we have terminated the development of product candidates due to a lack of or only modest effectiveness. for example, a randomized, double-blind phase 3 trial (venice) that evaluated zaltrap as a first-line treatment for metastatic androgen-independent prostate cancer in combination with docetaxel/prednisone did not meet the pre-specified criterion of improvement in overall survival in april 2011. moreover, even if we obtain positive results from preclinical testing or clinical trials, we may not achieve the same success in future trials, or the fda and analogous foreign regulatory authorities may deem the results insufficient for an approval. for instance, based on the results of three phase 3 studies, we submitted a supplemental bla filing to the fda seeking approval of arcalyst for the prevention of gout flares in patients initiating uric acid-lowering drug therapy. in may 2012, the arthritis advisory committee of the fda voted to recommend against approval of arcalyst for the prevention of gout flares in patients initiating uric acid-lowering drug therapy and, in july 2012, we received a complete response letter from the fda requesting additional information, including clinical data, as well as additional cmc information related to a proposed new dosage form. we have discontinued development of arcalyst for gout. many of our clinical trials are conducted under the oversight of independent data monitoring committees (idmcs). these independent oversight bodies are made up of external experts who review the progress of ongoing clinical trials, including available safety and efficacy data, and make recommendations concerning a trial's continuation, modification, or termination based on interim, unblinded data. any of our ongoing clinical trials may be discontinued or amended in response to recommendations made by responsible idmcs based on their review of such interim trial results. for example, in september 2009, a phase 3 trial that was evaluating zaltrap as a first-line treatment for metastatic pancreatic cancer in combination with gemcitabine was discontinued at the recommendation of an idmc after a planned analysis of interim efficacy data determined that the trial would not meet its efficacy endpoint. the recommended termination of any of our ongoing late-stage clinical trials by an idmc could negatively impact the future development of our product candidate(s), and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed. we are studying our antibody candidates in a wide variety of indications in clinical trials. many of these trials are exploratory studies designed to evaluate the safety profile of these compounds and to identify what diseases and uses, if any, are best suited for these product candidates. these product candidates may not demonstrate the requisite efficacy and/or safety profile to support continued development for some or all of the indications that are being, or are planned to be, studied, which would diminish our clinical "pipeline" and could negatively affect our future prospects and the value of our company. 32 table of contents serious complications or side effects in connection with the use of our products and in clinical trials for our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products could cause our regulatory approvals to be revoked or limited or lead to delay or discontinuation of development of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, which could severely harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. during the conduct of clinical trials, patients report changes in their health, including illnesses, injuries, and discomforts, to their study doctor. often, it is not possible to determine whether or not the drug candidate being studied caused these conditions. various illnesses, injuries, and discomforts have been reported from time-to-time during clinical trials of our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products. it is possible that as we test our drug candidates or new indications in larger, longer, and more extensive clinical programs, or as use of these drugs becomes more widespread if they receive regulatory approval, illnesses, injuries, and discomforts that were observed in earlier trials, as well as conditions that did not occur or went undetected in previous trials, will be reported by patients. many times, side effects are only detectable after investigational drugs are tested in large-scale, phase 3 clinical trials or, in some cases, after they are made available to patients after approval. if additional clinical experience indicates that any of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products has many side effects or causes serious or life-threatening side effects, the development of the product candidate may be delayed or fail, or, if the product candidate has received regulatory approval, such approval may be revoked, which would severely harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. eylea is being studied in an additional indication, and aflibercept is being studied as a combination product. there are many potential safety concerns associated with significant blockade of vegf that may limit our ability to further successfully develop and/or commercialize aflibercept. these serious and potentially life-threatening risks, based on clinical and preclinical experience of vegf inhibitors, include bleeding, intestinal perforation, hypertension, proteinuria, congestive heart failure, heart attack, and stroke. other vegf blockers have reported side effects that became evident only after large-scale trials or after marketing approval when large numbers of patients were treated. there are risks inherent in the intravitreal administration of drugs like aflibercept (such as intraocular inflammation, sterile and culture positive endophthalmitis, corneal decomposition, retinal detachment, and retinal tear), which can cause injury to the eye and other complications. for example, in our phase 3 trials of eylea in wet amd, the most frequent ocular adverse events were conjunctival hemorrhage, macular degeneration, eye pain, retinal hemorrhage, and vitreous floaters. these and other complications or side effects could harm further development and/or commercialization of aflibercept. the potential of praluent to demonstrate cardiovascular benefit is being prospectively assessed in the ongoing odyssey outcomes trial. there is no guarantee that praluent will meet the relevant endpoints of this trial. in addition, there are potential safety concerns associated with pcsk9 inhibitor antibodies such as praluent that may limit our ability to further successfully develop and/or commercialize praluent, including new-onset diabetes mellitus, injection-site reactions, hypersensitivity, immunogenicity, demyelination, and changes in neurocognitive function. there also are risks inherent in subcutaneous injections, including subcutaneous injections with praluent, such as injection-site reactions (including redness, itching, swelling, pain, and tenderness) and other side effects. these and other complications or side effects could harm further development and/or commercialization of praluent. our product candidates in development are recombinant proteins that could cause an immune response, resulting in the creation of harmful or neutralizing antibodies against the therapeutic protein. in addition to the safety, efficacy, manufacturing, and regulatory hurdles faced by our product candidates, the administration of recombinant proteins frequently causes an immune response, resulting in the creation of antibodies against the therapeutic protein. the antibodies can have no effect or can totally neutralize the effectiveness of the protein, or require that higher doses be used to obtain a therapeutic effect. in some cases, the antibody can cross-react with the patient's own proteins, resulting in an "auto-immune" type disease. whether antibodies will be created can often not be predicted from preclinical or clinical experiments, and their detection or appearance is often delayed, so neutralizing antibodies may be detected at a later date, in some cases even after pivotal clinical trials have been completed. 33 table of contents we may be unable to formulate or manufacture our product candidates in a way that is suitable for clinical or commercial use, which would delay or prevent continued development of such candidates and/or receipt of regulatory approval or commercial sale, which could materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. if we are unable to continue to develop suitable product formulations or manufacturing processes to support large-scale clinical testing of our product candidates, including our antibody candidates, we may be unable to supply necessary materials for our clinical trials, which would delay or prevent the development of our product candidates. similarly, if we are unable, directly or through our collaborators or third parties, to supply sufficient quantities of our products or develop formulations of our product candidates suitable for commercial use, we will be unable to obtain regulatory approval for those product candidates. some of our products and, if approved, product candidates may be used with drug delivery devices, which have their own regulatory and other risks. some of our products (such as praluent) are used and, if approved, some of our product candidates may be used in combination with a drug delivery device, including a pre-filled syringe, patch pump, auto-injector, or other delivery system. the success of our product candidates may depend to a significant extent on the performance of such devices, some of which may be novel or comprised of complex components. given the increased complexity of the review process when approval of the product and device is sought under a single marketing application, our product candidates used with such drug delivery devices may be substantially delayed in receiving regulatory approval or may not be approved at all. in addition, some of these drug delivery devices may be provided by single-source, third-party providers or our collaborators. in any such case, we may be dependent on the sustained cooperation of those third-party providers or collaborators to supply the devices; to conduct the studies required for approval or clearance by the applicable regulatory agencies; and to continue to meet the applicable regulatory and other requirements to maintain approval or clearance once it has been received. failure to successfully develop or supply the devices, delays in or failure of the studies conducted by us, our collaborators, or third-party providers, or failure of our company, our collaborators, or the third-party providers to obtain or maintain regulatory approval or clearance of the devices could result in increased development costs, delays in or failure to obtain regulatory approval, and associated delays in a product candidate reaching the market. loss of regulatory approval or clearance of a device that is used with our product may also result in the removal of our product from the market. further, failure to successfully develop or supply these devices, or to gain or maintain their approval, could adversely affect sales of the related products. risks related to intellectual property and market exclusivity if we cannot protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets or our patents are insufficient to protect our proprietary rights, our business and competitive position will be harmed. our business requires using sensitive and proprietary technology and other information that we protect as trade secrets. we seek to prevent improper disclosure of these trade secrets through confidentiality agreements. if our trade secrets are improperly disclosed, by our current or former employees, our collaborators, or otherwise, it would help our competitors and adversely affect our business. we will be able to protect our proprietary rights only to the extent that our proprietary technologies and other information are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. the patent position of biotechnology companies, including our company, involves complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, enforceability cannot be predicted with certainty. our patents may be challenged, invalidated, held to be unenforceable, or circumvented. patent applications filed outside the united states may be challenged by other parties, for example, by filing third-party observations that argue against patentability or an opposition. such opposition proceedings are increasingly common in the eu and are costly to defend. for example, our european patent no. 1,360,287 was the subject of opposition proceedings in the european patent office, as described in part i, item 3. "legal proceedings" of this report. we have pending patent applications in the united states patent and trademark office, the european patent office, and the patent offices of other foreign jurisdictions, and it is likely that we will need to defend patents from challenges by others from time to time in the future. certain of our u.s. patents may also be challenged by parties who file a request for post-grant review under the america invents act of 2011. post-grant review proceedings are increasingly common in the united states and are costly to defend. our patent rights may not provide us with a proprietary position or competitive advantages against competitors. furthermore, even if the outcome is favorable to us, the enforcement of our intellectual property rights can be extremely expensive and time consuming. 34 table of contents we may be restricted in our development, manufacturing, and/or commercialization activities by patents or other proprietary rights of others, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed such patents or rights. our commercial success depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of others. other parties may allege that they own blocking patents to our products in clinical development or even to products that have received regulatory approval and are being or have been commercialized, either because they claim to hold proprietary rights to the composition of a product or the way it is manufactured or the way it is used. moreover, other parties may allege that they have blocking patents to antibody products made using our velocimmune technology, either because of the way the antibodies are discovered or produced or because of a proprietary composition covering an antibody or the antibody's target. we have been in the past, are currently, and may in the future be involved in patent litigation and other proceedings involving our patents. for example, we are currently parties to patent infringement proceedings initiated by us relating to our european patent no. 1,360,287, our european patent no. 2,264,163, and our u.s. patent no. 8,502,018, all of which concern genetically altered mice capable of producing chimeric antibodies that are part human and part mouse, as described in part i, item 3. "legal proceedings" of this report. in addition, we are currently parties to patent infringement proceedings initiated by amgen against us and sanofi relating to praluent, as described in part i, item 3. "legal proceedings" of this report. we are aware of additional patents and pending applications owned by others that claim antibodies to pcsk9 and methods of treating hypercholesterolemia with such antibodies. we are also aware of patents and pending applications owned by others that respectively claim antibodies to il-6r and il-4r and methods of treating rheumatoid arthritis and uveitis and atopic dermatitis and asthma with such antibodies. in addition to praluent, our late-stage antibody-based pipeline includes sarilumab, an antibody to il-6r, for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and non-infectious uveitis; dupilumab, an antibody to il-4r, for the treatment of atopic dermatitis, asthma, nasal polyposis, and eosinophilic esophagitis; regn2222, an antibody targeting rsv-f; and fasinumab, an antibody to ngf. although we do not believe that any of our late-stage antibody product candidates infringes any valid claim in these patents or patent applications, these other parties could initiate a lawsuit for patent infringement and assert their patents are valid and cover our late-stage antibody product candidates, similar to the patent infringement proceedings initiated by amgen referred to above. as described in part i, item 3. "legal proceedings" of this report, we and sanofi-aventis u.s. llc initiated invalidity actions against patents jointly owned by genentech and city of hope relating to the production of recombinant antibodies by host cells. we currently produce our antibody product and antibody product candidates using recombinant antibodies from host cells and may choose to produce additional antibody product candidates in this manner. neither arcalyst nor eylea is a recombinant antibody. genentech has licensed these patents to several different companies under confidential license agreements. if we desire a license for any of our antibody products or product candidates as part of a settlement for these invalidity actions and are unable to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms or at all, we may be restricted in our ability to make recombinant antibodies in, or to import them into, the united states. further, we are aware of a number of patent applications of others that, if granted with claims as currently drafted, may cover our current or planned activities. it could be determined that our products and/or actions in manufacturing or selling our product candidates infringe such patents. patent holders could assert claims against us for damages and seek to prevent us from manufacturing, selling, or developing our products or product candidates, and a court may find that we are infringing validly issued patents of others. in the event that the manufacture, use, or sale of any of our products or product candidates infringes on the patents or violates other proprietary rights of others, we may be prevented from pursuing product development, manufacturing, and commercialization of those drugs and may be required to pay costly damages. in addition, in the event that we assert our patent rights against other parties that we believe are infringing our patent rights, such parties may challenge the validity of our patents and we may become the target of litigation, which may result in an outcome that is unfavorable to us. any of these adverse developments may materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. in any event, legal disputes are likely to be costly and time consuming to defend. we seek to obtain licenses to patents when, in our judgment, such licenses are needed or advisable. if any licenses are required, we may not be able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. the failure to obtain any such license could prevent us from developing or commercializing any one or more of our products or product candidates, which could severely harm our business. loss or limitation of patent rights, and new regulatory pathways for biosimilar competition, could reduce the duration of market exclusivity for our products. in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, the majority of an innovative product's commercial value is usually realized during the period in which it has market exclusivity. in the united states and some other countries, when market exclusivity expires and generic versions of a product are approved and marketed, there usually are very substantial and rapid declines in the product's sales. if our late-stage product candidates or other clinical candidates are approved for marketing in the united states or elsewhere, market exclusivity for those products will generally be based upon patent rights and/or certain regulatory forms of exclusivity. as 35 table of contents described above under " if we cannot protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets or our patents are insufficient to protect our proprietary rights, our business and competitive position will be harmed, " the scope and enforceability of our patent rights may vary from country to country. the failure to obtain patent and other intellectual property rights, or limitations on the use, or the loss, of such rights could materially harm us. absent patent protection or regulatory exclusivity for our products, it is possible, both in the united states and elsewhere, that generic and/or biosimilar versions of those products may be approved and marketed, which would likely result in substantial and rapid reductions in revenues from sales of those products. under the federal patient protection and affordable care act, or ppaca, enacted in 2010, there is an abbreviated path in the united states for regulatory approval of biosimilar versions of biological products. the ppaca provides a regulatory mechanism that allows for fda approval of biologic drugs that are similar to (but not generic copies of) innovative drugs on the basis of less extensive data than is required by a full bla. under this regulation, an application for approval of a biosimilar may be filed four years after approval of the innovator product. however, qualified innovative biological products will receive 12 years of regulatory exclusivity, meaning that the fda may not approve a biosimilar version until 12 years after the innovative biological product was first approved by the fda. however, the term of regulatory exclusivity may not remain at 12 years in the united states and could be shortened. the increased likelihood of biosimilar competition has increased the risk of loss of innovators' market exclusivity. due to this risk, and uncertainties regarding patent protection, if our late-stage product candidates or other clinical candidates are approved for marketing, it is not possible to predict the length of market exclusivity for a particular product with certainty based solely on the expiration of the relevant patent(s) or the current forms of regulatory exclusivity. it is also not possible to predict changes in united states regulatory law that might reduce biological product regulatory exclusivity. the loss of market exclusivity for a product would likely materially and negatively affect revenues from product sales of that product and thus our financial results and condition. risks related to manufacturing and supply we rely on limited internal and contracted manufacturing and supply chain capacity, which could result in our being unable to continue to successfully commercialize eylea, to successfully commercialize praluent and, if approved, our product candidates or other indications for our marketed products, and to advance our clinical pipeline. our manufacturing facilities would be inadequate to produce the active pharmaceutical ingredients of (a) eylea, praluent, zaltrap, and arcalyst, and (b) our antibody product candidates in sufficient clinical quantities if our clinical pipeline advances as planned. in addition to expanding our internal capacity, we intend to rely on our collaborators, as well as contract manufacturers, to produce commercial quantities of drug material needed for commercialization of our products to the extent such quantities are not manufactured at our own facility. as we increase our production in anticipation of potential regulatory approval for our late-stage antibody product candidates, our current manufacturing capacity will likely not be sufficient, and we may depend on our collaborators or contract manufacturers, to produce adequate quantities of drug material for both commercial and clinical purposes. we rely entirely on other parties and our collaborators for filling and finishing services. generally, in order for other parties to perform any step in the manufacturing and supply chain, we must transfer technology to the other party, which can be time consuming and may not be successfully accomplished without considerable cost and expense, or at all. we will have to depend on these other parties to perform effectively on a timely basis and to comply with regulatory requirements. if for any reason they are unable to do so, and as a result we are unable to directly or through other parties manufacture and supply sufficient commercial and clinical quantities of our products on acceptable terms, or if we should encounter delays or other difficulties in our relationships with our collaborators, contract manufacturers, or other parties involved in our supply chain which adversely affect the timely manufacture and supply of our products or product candidates, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed. 36 table of contents expanding our manufacturing capacity will be costly and we may be unsuccessful in doing so in a timely manner, which could delay or prevent the launch and successful commercialization of our marketed products and late-stage product candidates or other indications for our marketed products if they are approved for marketing and could jeopardize our current and future clinical development programs. we have commenced construction of additional manufacturing space at our rensselaer, new york site to increase our manufacturing capacity. in addition, we have acquired and are renovating a 400,000 square foot facility in limerick, ireland to expand our manufacturing capacity to support our global supply chain. in the future, we may lease, operate, purchase, or construct additional facilities to conduct expanded manufacturing activities. expanding our manufacturing capacity to supply commercial quantities of the active pharmaceutical ingredients for our marketed products and our late-stage product candidates if they are approved for marketing, and to supply clinical drug material to support the continued growth of our clinical programs, will require substantial additional expenditures and various regulatory approvals and permits. in addition, the limerick, ireland facility remains subject to securing certain governmental permits, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain the remaining required permits in the contemplated timeframe, or at all. further, we will need to hire and train significant numbers of employees and managerial personnel to staff our expanding manufacturing and supply chain operations. start-up costs can be large, and scale-up entails significant risks related to process development and manufacturing yields. in addition, we may face difficulties or delays in developing or acquiring the necessary production equipment and technology to manufacture sufficient quantities of our product candidates at reasonable costs and in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. the fda and analogous foreign regulatory authorities must determine that our existing and any expanded manufacturing facilities comply, or continue to comply, with cgmp requirements for both clinical and commercial production and license them, or continue to license them, accordingly, and such facilities must also comply with applicable environmental, safety, and other governmental permitting requirements. we may not successfully expand or establish sufficient manufacturing capabilities or manufacture our products economically or in compliance with cgmps and other regulatory requirements, and we and our collaborators may not be able to build or procure additional capacity in the required timeframe to meet commercial demand for our late-stage product candidates if they receive regulatory approval, and to continue to meet the requirements of our clinical programs. this would interfere with our efforts to successfully commercialize eylea, praluent, and arcalyst and could also delay or require us to discontinue one or more of our clinical development programs. as a result, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition could be materially harmed. our ability to manufacture products may be impaired if any of our manufacturing activities, or the activities of third parties involved in our manufacture and supply chain, are found to infringe patents of others. our ability to continue to manufacture eylea, praluent, zaltrap, and arcalyst in our rensselaer, new york facilities and, in the future, our ability to manufacture our marketed products at additional facilities, or to utilize third parties to produce our products, to supply raw materials or other products, or to perform fill/finish services or other steps in our manufacture and supply chain, depends on our and their ability to operate without infringing the patents or other intellectual property rights of others. other parties may allege that our manufacturing activities, or the activities of third parties involved in our manufacture and supply chain (which may be located in jurisdictions outside the united states), infringe patents or other intellectual property rights. a judicial or regulatory decision in favor of one or more parties making such allegations could directly or indirectly preclude the manufacture of our products to which those intellectual property rights apply on a temporary or permanent basis, which could materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. if sales of eylea or praluent do not meet the levels currently expected, or if the launch of any of our product candidates is delayed or unsuccessful, we may face costs related to excess inventory or unused capacity at our manufacturing facilities and at the facilities of third parties. we have large-scale manufacturing operations in rensselaer, new york and are in the process of building a large-scale manufacturing facility in limerick, ireland. we use our manufacturing facilities primarily to produce bulk product for commercial supply of our marketed products and clinical and preclinical candidates for ourselves and our collaborations. we also plan to use such facilities to produce bulk product for commercial supply of new indications of our marketed products and new product candidates if they are approved for marketing. if our clinical candidates are discontinued or their clinical development is delayed, if the launch of new indications for our marketed products or new product candidates is delayed or does not occur, or if such products are launched and the launch is unsuccessful or the product is subsequently recalled or marketing approval is rescinded, we may have to absorb one hundred percent of related overhead costs and inefficiencies, as well as similar costs of third-party contract manufacturers performing services for us. in addition, if we experience excess inventory, it may be necessary to write down or even write off such excess inventory, which could adversely affect our operating results. 37 table of contents third-party service or supply failures, or other failures, business interruptions, or other disasters affecting our manufacturing facilities in rensselaer, new york or the facilities of any other party participating in the supply chain, would adversely affect our ability to supply our products. we currently manufacture all of our bulk drug materials at our manufacturing facilities in rensselaer, new york. we would be unable to manufacture these materials if our rensselaer facilities were to cease production due to regulatory requirements or actions, business interruptions, labor shortages or disputes, contaminations, fire, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, or other problems. many of our products and product candidates are very difficult to manufacture. as our products and product candidates are biologics, they require processing steps that are more difficult than those required for most chemical pharmaceuticals. accordingly, multiple steps are needed to control the manufacturing processes. problems with these manufacturing processes, even minor deviations from the normal process or from the materials used in the manufacturing process (which may not be detectable by us in a timely manner), could lead to product defects or manufacturing failures, resulting in lot failures, product recalls, product liability claims, and insufficient inventory. also, the complexity of our manufacturing process may make it difficult, time-consuming, and expensive to transfer our technology to our collaborators or contract manufacturers. also, certain raw materials or other products necessary for the manufacture and formulation of our marketed products and product candidates, some of which are difficult to source, are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. in addition, we rely on certain third parties to perform filling, finishing, distribution, laboratory testing, and other services related to the manufacture of our marketed products and product candidates, and to supply various raw materials and other products. we would be unable to obtain these raw materials, other products, or services for an indeterminate period of time if any of these third parties were to cease or interrupt production or otherwise fail to supply these materials, products, or services to us for any reason, including due to regulatory requirements or actions (including recalls), adverse financial developments at or affecting the supplier, failure by the supplier to comply with cgmps, contamination, business interruptions, or labor shortages or disputes. in any such circumstances, we may not be able to engage a backup or alternative supplier or service provider in a timely manner or at all. this, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our ability to manufacture or supply marketed products and product candidates, which could materially and adversely affect our business and future prospects. certain of the raw materials required in the manufacture and the formulation of our product candidates may be derived from biological sources, including mammalian tissues, bovine serum, and human serum albumin. there are certain european regulatory restrictions on using these biological source materials. if we are required to substitute for these sources to comply with european regulatory requirements, our clinical development activities may be delayed or interrupted. if we fail to meet the stringent requirements of governmental regulation in the manufacture of drug products or product candidates, we could incur substantial remedial costs, delays in the development or approval of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products and/or in their commercial launch if they obtain regulatory approval, and a reduction in sales. we and our third-party providers are required to maintain compliance with cgmps, and are subject to inspections by the fda or comparable agencies in other jurisdictions to confirm such compliance. changes of suppliers or modifications of methods of manufacturing may require amending our application(s) to the fda or such comparable foreign agencies and acceptance of the change by the fda or such comparable foreign agencies prior to release of product(s). because we produce multiple products and product candidates at our facility in rensselaer, new york, including eylea, praluent, zaltrap, and arcalyst, there are increased risks associated with cgmp compliance. our inability, or the inability of our third-party fill/finish or other service providers, to demonstrate ongoing cgmp compliance could require us to engage in lengthy and expensive remediation efforts, withdraw or recall product, halt or interrupt clinical trials, and/or interrupt commercial supply of any marketed products, and could also delay or prevent our obtaining regulatory approval for our late-stage product candidates or new indications for our marketed products. any delay, interruption, or other issue that arises in the manufacture, fill/finish, packaging, or storage of any drug product or product candidate as a result of a failure of our facilities or the facilities or operations of third parties to pass any regulatory agency inspection or maintain cgmp compliance could significantly impair our ability to develop, obtain approval for, and successfully commercialize our products, which would substantially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. any finding of non-compliance could also increase our costs, cause us to delay the development of our product candidates, result in delay in our obtaining, or our not obtaining, regulatory approval of product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, and cause us to lose revenue from any marketed products, which could be seriously detrimental to our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. 38 table of contents risks related to commercialization of products we may be unsuccessful in continuing the commercialization of our marketed products or in commercializing our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if approved, which would materially and adversely affect our business, profitability, and future prospects. even if clinical trials demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of any of our product candidates for a specific disease and the necessary regulatory approvals are obtained, the commercial success of any of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products will depend upon, among other things, their acceptance by patients, the medical community, and third-party payers and on our and our collaborators' ability to successfully manufacture, market and distribute those products in substantial commercial quantities or to establish and manage the required infrastructure to do so, including large-scale information technology systems and a large-scale distribution network. establishing and maintaining sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities are expensive and time-consuming. even if we obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates or new indications, if they are not successfully commercialized, we will not be able to recover the significant investment we have made in developing such products and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be severely harmed. the commercial success of our products may also be adversely affected by guidelines or recommendations to healthcare providers, administrators, payers, and patient communities that result in decreased use of our products. such guidelines or recommendations may be published not only by governmental agencies, but also professional societies, practice management groups, private foundations, and other interested parties. our product candidates are delivered either by intravenous infusion or by intravitreal or subcutaneous injections, which are generally less well received by patients than tablet or capsule delivery and this could adversely affect the commercial success of those products if they receive marketing approval. for a description of additional risks relating specifically to the commercialization of eylea and praluent, see above under "risks related to commercialization of eylea" and "risks related to commercialization of praluent," respectively. our marketed products are subject to significant competition, and our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if any are approved for marketing, may face significant competition. there is substantial competition in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries from biotechnology, pharmaceutical, and chemical companies. many of our competitors have substantially greater research, preclinical and clinical product development and manufacturing capabilities, as well as financial, marketing, and human resources, than we do. our smaller competitors may also enhance their competitive position if they acquire or discover patentable inventions, form collaborative arrangements, or merge with large pharmaceutical companies. even if we achieve commercialization of our product candidates, our competitors have achieved, and may continue to achieve, product commercialization before our products are approved for marketing and sale. the market for eye disease products is very competitive, as described in greater detail above under "risks related to commercialization of eylea - the commercial success of eylea is subject to strong competition ." there is also significant actual and potential future competition for praluent, the pcsk9 antibody we are developing and commercializing in collaboration with sanofi, as described in greater detail above under "risks related to commercialization of praluent - the commercial success of praluent is subject to strong competition ." our earlier-stage clinical candidates in development are all fully human monoclonal antibodies, which were generated using our velocimmune technology. our antibody generation technologies and earlier-stage clinical candidates face competition from many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies using various technologies. we are aware of several pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies actively engaged in the research and development of antibody products against targets that are also the targets of our early- and late-stage product candidates (an overview of the competitive landscape for our antibody programs that are in late-stage clinical development is provided in part i, item 1. "business - competition - monoclonal antibodies "). for example, pfizer (in collaboration with eli lilly) and johnson &amp; johnson are developing antibody product candidates against ngf. genentech/roche is marketing an antibody against il-6r (actemra) for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis that would compete with sarilumab, our il-6r antibody, if it is approved. in addition, several other companies, including johnson &amp; johnson (in collaboration with glaxosmithkline), alder biopharmaceuticals, ablynx (in collaboration with abbvie), r-pharm, and pfizer have antibodies against il-6 or il-6r in clinical development. a number of companies are developing antibodies that, if approved, may compete with dupilumab, our il-4r antibody, if it is approved, including roche (an antibody against il-13), teva (an antibody against il-5), astrazeneca (antibodies against il-5r and il-13), novartis (a combination antibody against il-4 and il-13), and amgen (in collaboration with astrazeneca) (an antibody against thymic stromal lymphopoietin, or tslp). glaxosmithkline's nucala may also compete with dupilumab, if dupilumab is approved. 39 table of contents for rsv, competitors have marketed antibodies as well as antibodies in clinical development, including astrazeneca (in collaboration with aimm therapeutics). if any of these or other competitors announces a successful clinical study involving a product that may be competitive with one of our product candidates or the grant of marketing approval by a regulatory agency for a competitive product, such developments may have an adverse effect on our business or future prospects. in addition, the first product to reach the market in a therapeutic area is often at a significant competitive advantage relative to later entrants to the market. accordingly, the relative speed with which we, or our collaborators, can develop our products candidates, complete the clinical trials and approval processes, and, if such product candidates are approved for marketing and sale, supply commercial quantities to the market is expected to continue to be an important competitive factor. due to the uncertainties associated with developing biopharmaceutical products, we may not be the first to obtain marketing approval for a product against any particular target, which may have a material adverse effect on our business or future prospects. the successful commercialization of our marketed products, as well as our late-stage product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if approved, will depend on obtaining and maintaining coverage and reimbursement for use of these products from third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid in the united states, and these payers may not cover or adequately reimburse for use of our products or may do so at levels that make our products uncompetitive and/or unprofitable, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. our future revenues and profitability will be adversely affected in a material manner if united states and foreign governmental payers, private third-party insurers and payers (such as health maintenance organizations and pharmacy benefit management companies), and other third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid, do not adequately defray or reimburse the cost of our products to the patients. if these entities do not provide coverage and reimbursement with respect to our products or provide an insufficient level of coverage and reimbursement, our products may be too costly for many patients to afford them, and physicians may not prescribe them. many third-party payers cover only selected drugs, or may prefer selected drugs, making drugs that are not covered or preferred by such payers more expensive for patients. third-party payers may also require prior authorization for reimbursement, or require failure on another type of treatment before covering a particular drug, particularly with respect to higher-priced drugs. as our currently marketed products and product candidates are biologics, bringing them to market may cost more than bringing traditional, small-molecule drugs to market due to the complexity associated with the research, development, production, supply and regulatory review of such products. given cost sensitivities in many health care systems, our currently marketed products and product candidates are likely to be subject to continued pricing pressures, which may have an adverse impact on our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. in addition, in order for private insurance and governmental payers (such as medicare and medicaid in the united states) to reimburse the cost of our products, we must, among other things, maintain registration of the products in the national drug code registry, maintain our re-labeler license, maintain formulary approval by pharmacy benefits managers, and maintain recognition by insurance companies and the centers for medicare and medicaid services of the department of health and human services (cms). there is no certainty that we will be able to obtain or maintain the applicable requirements for reimbursement (including relevant formulary coverage) of our current and future products, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. government and other third-party payers (including pharmacy benefit management companies) are challenging the prices charged for healthcare products and increasingly limiting, and attempting to limit, both coverage and level of reimbursement for prescription drugs. in march 2010, the ppaca and a related reconciliation bill were enacted in the united states. this legislation imposes cost containment measures that are likely to adversely affect the amount of reimbursement for our future products. the full effects of this legislation are unknown at this time and will not be known until regulations and guidance are issued by cms and other federal and state agencies. some states are also considering legislation that would control the prices of drugs, and state medicaid programs are increasingly requesting manufacturers to pay supplemental rebates and requiring prior authorization by the state program for use of any drug for which supplemental rebates are not being paid. it is likely that federal and state legislatures and health agencies will continue to focus on additional health care reform in the future that will impose additional constraints on prices and reimbursements for our products. there is a risk that third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid in the united states, may not cover and/or reimburse our current and future products at levels required for us to successfully commercialize these products. any limitation imposed by third-party payers on the use of our products if they are approved for marketing, or any action or decision by cms or analogous foreign agencies or authorities which for any reason denies coverage or reimbursement for our products or provides coverage or reimbursement at levels that harm our products' competitiveness or leads to lower prices for those products, will have a material negative effect on our ability to sustain profitability. in certain foreign countries, pricing, coverage, and level of reimbursement of prescription drugs are subject to governmental control, and we and our collaborators may be unable to obtain coverage, pricing, and/or reimbursement on terms that are favorable to us or necessary for us or our collaborators to successfully commercialize our products in those countries. in some foreign countries, the proposed pricing for a drug must be approved before it may be lawfully marketed. the requirements governing drug pricing and reimbursement vary widely from country to country, and may take into 40 table of contents account the clinical effectiveness, cost, and service impact of existing, new, and emerging drugs and treatments. for example, the eu provides options for its member states to restrict the range of medicinal products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices of medicinal products for human use. a member state may approve a specific price for the medicinal product or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the medicinal product on the market. our results of operations may suffer if we or our collaborators are unable to market our products in foreign countries or if coverage and reimbursement for our products in foreign countries is limited or delayed. we are dependent upon a small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of or significant reduction in sales to these customers would adversely affect our results of operations. we sell eylea in the united states to several distributors and specialty pharmacies. under this distribution model, the distributors and specialty pharmacies generally take physical delivery of product and generally sell the product directly to healthcare providers. for the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, we recorded 67% and 73% , respectively, of our total gross product revenue from sales to a single distributor, besse medical, a subsidiary of amerisourcebergen corporation. we expect this significant customer concentration to continue for the foreseeable future. our ability to generate and grow sales of eylea will depend, in part, on the extent to which our distributors and specialty pharmacies are able to provide adequate distribution of eylea to healthcare providers. although we believe we can find additional distributors, if necessary, our revenue during any period of disruption could suffer and we might incur additional costs. in addition, these customers are responsible for a significant portion of our net trade accounts receivable balances. the loss of any large customer, a significant reduction in sales we make to them, any cancellation of orders they have made with us, or any failure to pay for the products we have shipped to them could adversely affect our results of operations. if we need to establish commercial capabilities outside the united states and are unable to do so, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be adversely affected. we have limited commercial capabilities outside the united states and do not currently have an organization for the sales, marketing, and distribution of marketed products outside the united states. there may be circumstances in which we need to establish commercial capabilities outside the united states, including because we decide to exercise our option to co-promote a product outside the united states or commercialize a particular product independently; we are unable to find an appropriate collaborator; or our existing collaborator decides not to opt in, decides to opt out, or breaches its obligations to us with respect to a particular product. in order to commercialize any products outside the united states, we must build our sales, marketing, distribution, managerial, and other non-technical capabilities in the relevant markets or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services, which would likely be expensive and time consuming and could delay product launch in one or more markets outside the united states. we cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully develop commercial capabilities outside the united states within an acceptable time frame or at all. these and other difficulties relating to commercializing our products outside the united states may severely harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. for additional risks relating to commercialization of eylea and praluent outside the united states, see also "risks related to commercialization of eylea - we rely on our collaboration with bayer healthcare for commercializing eylea " and "risks related to commercialization of praluent - we rely on our antibody collaboration with sanofi for commercializing praluent ," respectively. regulatory and litigation risks if the testing or use of our products harms people, or is perceived to harm them even when such harm is unrelated to our products, we could be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims. the testing, manufacturing, marketing, and sale of drugs for use in people expose us to product liability risk. any informed consent or waivers obtained from people who enroll in our clinical trials may not protect us from liability or the cost of litigation. we may also be subject to claims by patients who use our approved products, or our product candidates if those product candidates receive regulatory approval and become commercially available, that they have been injured by a side effect associated with the drug. even in a circumstance in which we do not believe that an adverse event is related to our products or product candidates, the related investigation may be time consuming or inconclusive and may have a negative impact on our reputation or business. we may face product liability claims and be found responsible even if injury arises from the acts or omissions of third parties who provide fill/finish or other services. to the extent we maintain product liability insurance in relevant periods, such insurance may not cover all potential liabilities or may not completely cover any liability arising from any such litigation. moreover, in the future we may not have access to liability insurance or be able to maintain our insurance on acceptable terms. 41 table of contents if we market and sell approved products in a way that violates federal or state healthcare laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. the fda regulates the marketing and promotion of our products, which must comply with the food, drug, and cosmetic act and applicable fda implementing standards. the fda's review of promotional activities includes healthcare provider-directed and direct-to-consumer advertising as well as sales representatives' communications. the fda may take enforcement action for promoting unapproved uses of a product or other violations of its advertising laws and regulations. in addition to fda and related regulatory requirements, we are subject to health care "fraud and abuse" laws, such as the federal false claims act, the anti-kickback provisions of the federal social security act, and other state and federal laws and regulations. federal and state anti-kickback laws prohibit, among other things, payments or other remuneration to induce or reward someone to purchase, prescribe, endorse, or recommend a product that is reimbursed under federal or state healthcare programs. if we provide payments or other remuneration to a healthcare professional to induce the prescribing of our products, we could face liability under state and federal anti-kickback laws. federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, such as allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; reporting to pricing services inflated average wholesale prices that were then used by federal programs to set reimbursement rates; engaging in promotion for uses that the fda has not approved, known as off-label uses, that caused claims to be submitted to medicaid for non-covered off-label uses, and submitting inflated best price information to the medicaid rebate program. the majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payer. sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer's products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines, and imprisonment. even if it is determined that we have not violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which would harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the safe harbors, it is possible that some of our business activities could be challenged under one or more of such laws. as part of the ppaca, the federal government requires that pharmaceutical manufacturers record any "transfers of value" made to u.s. prescribers and certain other healthcare providers and teaching hospitals. information provided by companies is aggregated and posted annually on an "open payments" website, which is managed by the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services, the agency responsible for implementing these disclosure requirements. we will need to continue to dedicate significant resources to comply with these requirements. the ppaca also includes various provisions designed to strengthen fraud and abuse enforcement, such as increased funding for enforcement efforts and the lowering of the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback statute and criminal health care fraud statute such that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. in addition, several states have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, file periodic reports with the state, or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, and other activities. many of these requirements and standards are new or uncertain, and the penalties for failure to comply with these requirements may be unclear. if we are found not to be in full compliance with these laws, we could face enforcement actions, fines, and other penalties, and could receive adverse publicity, which would harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. additionally, access to such data by fraud-and-abuse investigators and industry critics may draw scrutiny to our collaborations with reported entities. risks from the improper conduct of employees, agents, contractors, or collaborators could adversely affect our reputation and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. we cannot ensure that our compliance controls, policies, and procedures will in every instance protect us from acts committed by our employees, agents, contractors, or collaborators that would violate the laws or regulations of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including, without limitation, healthcare, employment, foreign corrupt practices, trade restrictions and sanctions, environmental, competition, and patient privacy and other privacy laws and regulations. such improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations, and monetary and injunctive penalties, and could adversely impact our ability to conduct business, operating results, and reputation. 42 table of contents in particular, our business activities outside of the united states are subject to the foreign corrupt practices act, or fcpa, and similar anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws, regulations or rules of other countries in which we operate, including the u.k. bribery act. the fcpa generally prohibits offering, promising, giving, or authorizing others to give anything of value, either directly or indirectly, to a non-u.s. government official in order to influence official action, or otherwise obtain or retain business. the fcpa also requires public companies to make and keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect the transactions of the corporation and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls. our business is heavily regulated and therefore involves significant interaction with public officials, including officials of non-u.s. governments. additionally, in many other countries, the health care providers who prescribe pharmaceuticals are employed by their government, and the purchasers of pharmaceuticals are government entities; therefore, our dealings with these prescribers and purchasers are subject to regulation under the fcpa. recently the securities and exchange commission, or sec, and department of justice have increased their fcpa enforcement activities with respect to pharmaceutical companies. there is no certainty that all of our employees, agents, contractors, or collaborators, or those of our affiliates, will comply with all applicable laws and regulations, particularly given the high level of complexity of these laws. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, requirements to obtain export licenses, cessation of business activities in sanctioned countries, implementation of compliance programs, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business. any such violations could include prohibitions on our ability to offer our products in one or more countries and could materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. our operations may involve hazardous materials and are subject to environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations. compliance with these laws and regulations is costly, and we may incur substantial liability arising from our activities involving the use of hazardous materials. as a biopharmaceutical company with significant research and development and manufacturing operations, we are subject to extensive environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations, including those governing the use of hazardous materials. our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of chemicals, infectious agents (such as viruses, bacteria, and fungi), radioactive compounds, and other hazardous materials. the cost of compliance with environmental, health, and safety regulations is substantial. if an accident involving these materials or an environmental discharge were to occur, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, or face regulatory actions, which could exceed our resources or insurance coverage. our business is subject to increasingly complex corporate governance, public disclosure, and accounting requirements and regulations that could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. we are subject to changing rules and regulations of various federal and state governmental authorities as well as the stock exchange on which our common stock is listed. these entities, including the sec and the nasdaq stock market llc, have issued a significant number of new and increasingly complex requirements and regulations over the course of the last several years and continue to develop additional requirements and regulations in response to laws enacted by congress, including the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and, most recently, the dodd-frank wall street reform and protection act, or the dodd-frank act. there are significant corporate governance and executive compensation-related provisions in the dodd-frank act that expressly authorized or required the sec to adopt additional rules in these areas, a number of which have yet to be fully implemented. our efforts to comply with these requirements and regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, an increase in expenses and a diversion of management's time from other business activities. changes in laws and regulations affecting the healthcare industry could adversely affect our business. all aspects of our business, including research and development, manufacturing, marketing, pricing, sales, litigation, and intellectual property rights, are subject to extensive legislation and regulation. changes in applicable federal and state laws and agency regulations could have a materially negative impact on our business. these include: changes in the fda and foreign regulatory processes for new therapeutics that may delay or prevent the approval of any of our current or future product candidates; new laws, regulations, or judicial decisions related to healthcare availability or the payment for healthcare products and services, including prescription drugs, that would make it more difficult for us to market and sell products once they are approved by the fda or foreign regulatory agencies; changes in fda and foreign regulations that may require additional safety monitoring prior to or after the introduction of new products to market, which could materially increase our costs of doing business; and changes in fda and foreign cgmps that may make it more difficult and costly for us to maintain regulatory compliance and/or manufacture our marketed product and product candidates in accordance with cgmps. as described above, the ppaca and potential regulations thereunder easing the entry of competing follow-on biologics into the marketplace, other new legislation or implementation of existing statutory provisions on importation of lower-cost competing 43 table of contents drugs from other jurisdictions, and legislation on comparative effectiveness research are examples of previously enacted and possible future changes in laws that could adversely affect our business. risks associated with our operations outside of the united states could adversely affect our business. we have operations and conduct business outside the united states and we plan to expand these activities. consequently, we are, and will continue to be, subject to risks related to operating in foreign countries, which include: unfamiliar foreign laws or regulatory requirements or unexpected changes to those laws or requirements; other laws and regulatory requirements to which our business activities abroad are subject, such as the fcpa and the u.k. bribery act (discussed in greater detail above under " risks from the improper conduct of employees, agents, contractors, or collaborators could adversely affect our reputation and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition "); changes in the political or economic condition of a specific country or region; fluctuations in the value of foreign currency versus the u.s. dollar; our ability to deploy overseas funds in an efficient manner; tariffs, trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements, trade embargoes and sanctions (including those administered by the office of foreign assets control of the u.s. department of the treasury), and other trade barriers; difficulties in attracting and retaining qualified personnel; and cultural differences in the conduct of business. we may incur additional tax liabilities related to our operations. we are subject to income tax in the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide tax liabilities, and our effective tax rate is derived from a combination of the applicable statutory rates in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. we record liabilities that involve significant management judgment for uncertain tax positions. the internal revenue service or other domestic or foreign taxing authorities may disagree with our interpretation of tax law as applied to the operations of regeneron and its subsidiaries or with the positions we may take with respect to particular tax issues on our tax returns. consequently, our reported effective tax rate and our after-tax cash flows may be materially and adversely affected by tax assessments or judgments in excess of accrued amounts we have estimated in preparing our financial statements. further, our effective tax rate may also be adversely affected by numerous other factors, including changes in the mix of our profitability from country to country, the availability of the u.s. research and development tax credit, and changes in tax laws and regulations. changes in tax laws of various jurisdictions in which we do business could also result from the base erosion and profits shifting, or beps, recommendations by the organization for economic co-operation and development. if these recommendations (or other changes in law) were adopted by the countries in which we do business, it could adversely affect our provision for income tax and our current rate. we face potential liability related to the privacy of health information we obtain from clinical trials sponsored by us or our collaborators, from research institutions and our collaborators, and directly from individuals. most health care providers, including research institutions from which we or our collaborators obtain patient health information, are subject to privacy and security regulations promulgated under the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, or hipaa, as amended by the health information technology for economic and clinical health act. for example, as part of our human genetics initiative, our wholly-owned subsidiary, regeneron genetics center llc, has entered into collaborations with research institutions, including the geisinger health system, which are subject to such regulations. regeneron is not currently classified as a covered entity or business associate under hipaa and thus is not subject to its requirements or penalties. however, any person may be prosecuted under hipaa's criminal provisions either directly or under aiding-and-abetting or conspiracy principles. consequently, depending on the facts and circumstances, we could face substantial criminal penalties if we knowingly receive individually identifiable health information from a hipaa-covered health care provider or research institution that has not satisfied hipaa's requirements for disclosure of individually identifiable health information. in addition, we may maintain sensitive personally identifiable information, including health information, that we receive throughout the clinical trial process, in the course of our research collaborations, and directly from individuals (or their healthcare providers) who enroll in our patient assistance programs. as such, we may be subject to state laws requiring notification of affected individuals and state regulators in the event of a breach of personal information, which is a broader class of information than the health information protected by hipaa. our clinical trial programs and research collaborations outside the u.s. implicate international data protection laws, including the eu data protection directive and legislation of the eu member states implementing it. our activities outside the u.s. impose additional compliance requirements and generate additional risks of enforcement for noncompliance. failure by our collaborators to comply with the strict rules on the transfer of personal data outside of the eu into the u.s. may result in the imposition of criminal and administrative sanctions on such collaborators, which could adversely affect our business. furthermore, certain health privacy laws, data breach notification laws, consumer protection laws, and genetic testing laws may apply directly 44 table of contents to our operations and/or those of our collaborators and may impose restrictions on our collection, use, and dissemination of individuals' health information. moreover, patients about whom we or our collaborators obtain health information, as well as the providers who share this information with us, may have statutory or contractual rights that limit our ability to use and disclose the information. we may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to ensure ongoing compliance with applicable privacy and data security laws. claims that we have violated individuals' privacy rights or breached our contractual obligations, even if we are not found liable, could be expensive and time-consuming to defend and could result in adverse publicity that could harm our business. if we or any collaborators fail to comply with applicable federal, state, or local regulatory requirements, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions that could affect our or any collaborators' ability to commercialize our products and could harm or prevent sales of any affected products that we are able to commercialize, or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing and marketing our products. any threatened or actual government enforcement action could also generate adverse publicity and require that we devote substantial resources that could otherwise be used in other aspects of our business. increasing use of social media could give rise to liability, breaches of data security, or reputational damage. we and our employees are increasingly utilizing social media tools as a means of communication both internally and externally. despite our efforts to monitor evolving social media communication guidelines and comply with applicable rules, there is risk that the use of social media by us or our employees to communicate about our products or business may cause us to be found in violation of applicable requirements. in addition, our employees may knowingly or inadvertently make use of social media in ways that may not comply with our social media policy or other legal or contractual requirements, which may give rise to liability, lead to the loss of trade secrets or other intellectual property, or result in public exposure of personal information of our employees, clinical trial patients, customers, and others. furthermore, negative posts or comments about us or our products in social media could seriously damage our reputation, brand image, and goodwill. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. risks related to our reliance on third parties if any of our collaborations with sanofi is terminated, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition, and our ability to discover, develop, manufacture, and commercialize our pipeline of product candidates in the time expected, or at all, would be materially harmed. we rely heavily on funding from sanofi to support our target discovery and antibody research and development programs, as well as our immuno-oncology research and development programs. sanofi has committed to reimburse us for up to (i) $405 million of the costs of our efforts to identify and validate drug discovery targets and pre-clinically develop fully human monoclonal antibodies against such targets under our antibody discovery agreement and (ii) $825 million of the costs of our efforts to identify and validate potential immuno-oncology targets and develop fully-human therapeutic antibodies against such targets under the io discovery and development agreement. sanofi also initially funds almost all of the development expenses incurred in connection with the clinical development of product candidates (i) that sanofi elects to co-develop with us under our antibody collaboration and (ii) for which sanofi is the principal controlling party under our io collaboration. in addition, sanofi initially funds half of the development expenses incurred in connection with the clinical development of product candidates for which we are the principal controlling party under our io collaboration. we rely on sanofi to fund these activities. in addition, with respect to those antibodies that sanofi elects to co-develop with us under our antibody collaboration (such as praluent, sarilumab, and dupilumab) or for which sanofi is the principal controlling party under our io collaboration, we rely on sanofi to lead much of the clinical development efforts and assist with obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval. following regulatory approval, we also rely on sanofi to lead (i) the commercialization efforts to support all of the antibody products that are co-developed by sanofi and us under our antibody collaboration and (ii) the commercialization efforts outside the unites states to support all products that are co-developed by sanofi and us under our io collaboration (as well as the commercialization efforts in the united states to support all products for which sanofi is the principal controlling party under our io collaboration). if sanofi does not elect to co-develop the product candidates that we discover or opts out of their development under our antibody collaboration or our io collaboration, unless we enter into a collaboration agreement with another party, we would be required to fund and oversee on our own the clinical trials, any regulatory responsibilities, and the ensuing commercialization efforts to support those antibody products. for example, sanofi has elected not to continue co-development of fasinumab, regn2222, and regn1033, and decided not to opt in to the evinacumab and other programs. 45 table of contents if sanofi terminates any of the collaborations with us or fails to comply with its payment obligations thereunder, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be materially harmed. we would be required to either expend substantially more resources than we have anticipated to support our research and development efforts, which could require us to seek additional funding that might not be available on favorable terms or at all, or materially cut back on such activities. if sanofi does not perform its obligations with respect to the product candidates that it elects to co-develop, our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize these product candidates will be significantly adversely affected. we have limited commercial capabilities outside the united states and would have to develop or outsource these capabilities for products commercialized under our antibody collaboration, such as praluent (see also "risks related to commercialization of products - if we need to establish commercial capabilities outside the united states and are unable to do so, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be adversely affected " above). termination of our antibody collaboration would create substantial new and additional risks to the successful development and commercialization of praluent, particularly outside the united states. if our collaboration with bayer healthcare for eylea is terminated, or bayer healthcare materially breaches its obligations thereunder, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition, and our ability to continue to develop eylea and commercialize eylea outside the united states in the time expected, or at all, would be materially harmed. we rely heavily on bayer healthcare to assist with the development, and the commercialization outside the united states, of eylea. under our agreement with them, bayer healthcare is required to fund approximately half of the development expenses incurred by both companies in connection with the global eylea development program. as the eylea program continues, we will continue to rely on bayer healthcare to assist with funding the eylea development program, continue to lead the development of eylea outside the united states, obtain and maintain regulatory approval outside the united states, and provide all sales, marketing, and commercial support for the product outside the united states. in particular, bayer healthcare has responsibility for selling eylea outside the united states using its sales force and, in japan, in cooperation with santen pharmaceuticals co. ltd. pursuant to a co-promotion and distribution agreement with bayer healthcare's japanese affiliate. we cannot assure you that regulatory approvals will be received for eylea in additional indications outside the united states or that eylea will be successfully commercialized outside the united states. if bayer healthcare and, in japan, santen do not perform their obligations in a timely manner, or at all, our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize eylea outside the united states will be significantly adversely affected. bayer healthcare has the right to terminate its collaboration agreement with us at any time upon six or twelve months' advance notice, depending on the circumstances giving rise to termination. if bayer healthcare were to terminate its collaboration agreement with us, we would not have the resources or skills to replace those of our collaborator, which could require us to seek additional funding or another collaboration that might not be available on favorable terms or at all, and could cause significant delays in the development and/or commercialization of eylea outside the united states and result in substantial additional costs to us. we have limited commercial capabilities outside the united states and would have to develop or outsource these capabilities (see also "risks related to commercialization of products - if we need to establish commercial capabilities outside the united states and are unable to do so, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be adversely affected " above). termination of the bayer healthcare collaboration agreement would create substantial new and additional risks to the successful development and commercialization of eylea, particularly outside the united states. our collaborators and service providers may fail to perform adequately in their efforts to support the development, manufacture, and commercialization of our drug candidates and current and future products. we depend upon third-party collaborators, including sanofi, bayer healthcare, and service providers such as cros, outside testing laboratories, clinical investigator sites, and third-party manufacturers, fill/finish, and product packagers and labelers, to assist us in the manufacture and preclinical and clinical development of our product candidates. we also depend, or will depend, on some of these third parties in connection with the commercialization of our marketed products and our late-stage product candidates and new indications for our marketed products if they are approved for marketing. if any of our existing collaborators or service providers breaches or terminates its agreement with us or does not perform its development or manufacturing services under an agreement in a timely manner or in compliance with applicable gmps, glps, or gcp standards, we could experience additional costs, delays, and difficulties in the manufacture or development of, or in obtaining approval by regulatory authorities for, or successfully commercializing our product candidates. we and our collaborators rely on third-party service providers to support the distribution of our marketed products and for many other related activities in connection with the commercialization of these marketed products. despite our or our collaborators' arrangements with them, these third parties may not perform adequately. if these service providers do not perform their services adequately, sales of our marketed products will suffer. 46 table of contents risk related to employees we are dependent on our key personnel and if we cannot recruit and retain leaders in our research, development, manufacturing, and commercial organizations, our business will be harmed. we are highly dependent on certain of our executive officers, other key members of our senior management team, and our chairman. if we are not able to retain (or for any other reason lose the services of) any of these persons, our business may suffer. in particular, we depend on the services of p. roy vagelos, m.d., the chairman of our board of directors; leonard s. schleifer, m.d., ph.d., our president and chief executive officer; george d. yancopoulos, m.d., ph.d., president, regeneron laboratories and our chief scientific officer; and neil stahl, ph.d., our executive vice president, research and development. as we continue to commercialize eylea and praluent and begin to commercialize other products assuming the receipt of required regulatory approvals, we are also highly dependent on the expertise and services of members of our senior management leading these commercialization efforts. there is intense competition in the biotechnology industry for qualified scientists and managerial personnel in the development, manufacture, and commercialization of drugs. we may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary to continue to advance our business and achieve our strategic objectives. information technology risks significant disruptions of information technology systems or breaches of data security could adversely affect our business. our business is increasingly dependent on critical, complex, and interdependent information technology systems, including internet-based systems, to support business processes as well as internal and external communications. the size and complexity of our computer systems make us potentially vulnerable to it system breakdowns, malicious intrusion, and computer viruses, which may result in the impairment of production and key business processes. we also have outsourced significant elements of our information technology infrastructure and operations to third parties, which may provide access to our confidential information to such third parties and may also make our systems vulnerable to service interruptions or to security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions by such third parties or others. in addition, our systems are potentially vulnerable to data security breaches - whether by employees or others - which may expose sensitive data to unauthorized persons. such data security breaches could lead to the loss of trade secrets or other intellectual property, or could lead to the public exposure of personal information (including sensitive personal information) of our employees, clinical trial patients, customers, and others. such attacks are of ever-increasing levels of sophistication and are made by groups and individuals with a wide range of motives (including industrial espionage) and expertise, including by organized criminal groups, hacktivists, nation states, and others. as a company with an increasingly global presence, our systems are subject to frequent attacks. due to the nature of some of these attacks, there is a risk that an attack may remain undetected for a period of time. while we continue to make investments to improve the protection of data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent service interruptions or security breaches. such disruptions and breaches of security could result in legal proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, disruptions to our operations, and damage to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. risks related to our financial results, liquidity, and need for additional financing if we cannot sustain profitability, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be materially harmed. beginning in 2012, we reported profitability; prior to that, we generally incurred net losses. if we cannot sustain profitability, we may be unable to continue our operations. in the absence of substantial revenue from the sale of products on an ongoing basis, including our sales of eylea, and our share of the profits from bayer healthcare's sales of eylea outside the united states, or from other sources, the amount, timing, nature, or source of which cannot be predicted, we may incur substantial losses again as we conduct our research and development activities, commercialize our approved products, and prepare for possible commercialization of our other product candidates and new indications of our marketed products. 47 table of contents we may need additional funding in the future, which may not be available to us, and which may force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts. we expend substantial resources for research and development, including costs associated with clinical testing of our product candidates and new indications of our marketed products, the commercialization of products, and capital expenditures. we believe our existing capital resources and borrowing availability under our revolving credit facility, together with funds generated by current and anticipated eylea net product sales and funding we are entitled to receive under our collaboration agreements, will enable us to meet our anticipated operating needs for the foreseeable future. however, one or more of our collaboration agreements may terminate, our revenues may fall short of our projections or be delayed, or our expenses may increase, any of which could result in our capital being consumed significantly faster than anticipated. in addition, our expenses may increase for many reasons, including expenses in connection with the commercialization of eylea and praluent and the anticipated commercial launches of our late-stage product candidates and new indications for our marketed products, manufacturing scale-up, expenses related to clinical trials testing of antibody product candidates we are developing on our own (without sanofi), and expenses related to the requirement, following receipt of the first positive phase 3 trial results for a co-developed drug candidate, for us to fund 20% of phase 3 clinical trial costs for any of our antibody product candidates being developed in collaboration with sanofi. we cannot be certain that our existing capital resources and our current and anticipated revenues will be sufficient to meet our operating needs. we may require additional financing in the future and we may not be able to raise additional funds on acceptable terms or at all. our ability to obtain additional financing could be adversely affected if there is a significant decline in the demand for our products or other significantly unfavorable changes in economic conditions. volatility in the financial markets could increase borrowing costs or affect our ability to raise capital. if additional financing is necessary and we obtain it through the sale of equity securities, such sales will likely be dilutive to our shareholders. debt financing arrangements may require us to pledge certain assets or enter into covenants that would restrict our business activities or our ability to incur further indebtedness and may be at interest rates and contain other terms that are not favorable to our shareholders. should we require and be unable to raise sufficient funds (i) to complete the development of our product candidates, (ii) to successfully commercialize our late-stage product candidates or new indications for our marketed products if they obtain regulatory approval, and (iii) to continue our manufacturing and marketing of eylea, we may face delay, reduction, or elimination of our research and development or preclinical or clinical programs and our commercialization activities, which would significantly limit our potential to generate revenue. changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. our revenue from outside of the united states will increase as our products, whether marketed by us or our collaborators, gain marketing approval in such jurisdictions. our primary foreign currency exposure relates to movements in the japanese yen, euro, british pound sterling, and australian dollar. if the u.s. dollar weakens against a specific foreign currency, our revenues will increase, having a positive impact on net income, but our overall expenses will increase, having a negative impact. likewise, if the u.s. dollar strengthens against a specific foreign currency, our revenues will decrease, having a negative impact on net income, but our overall expenses will decrease, having a positive impact. therefore, significant changes in foreign exchange rates can impact our operating results and the financial condition of our company. our investments are subject to risks and other external factors that may result in losses or affect the liquidity of these investments. as of december 31, 2015, we had $809.1 million in cash and cash equivalents and $868.3 million in marketable securities (including $31.5 million in equity securities). our investments consist primarily of fixed-income securities, including investment-grade corporate bonds. these fixed-income investments are subject to external factors that may adversely affect their market value or liquidity, such as interest rate, liquidity, market, and issuer credit risks, including actual or anticipated changes in credit ratings. the equity securities we hold may experience significant volatility and may decline in value or become worthless if the issuer experiences an adverse development. furthermore, our equity investments could be subject to dilution (and decline in value) as a result of the issuance of additional equity interests. if any of our investments suffer market price declines that are other than temporary, their value could be impaired, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. risks related to our common stock our stock price is extremely volatile. there has been significant volatility in our stock price and generally in the market prices of biotechnology companies' securities. various factors and events may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. these factors include, by way of example: fluctuations in our operating results, in particular net product sales of eylea; if any of our product candidates or our new indications for our marketed products receive regulatory approval, net product sales of, and profits from, these product candidates and new indications; 48 table of contents market acceptance of, and fluctuations in market share for, our marketed products, especially eylea and praluent; whether our net products sales and net profits underperform, meet, or exceed the expectations of investors or analysts; announcement of actions by the fda or foreign regulatory authorities or their respective advisory committees regarding our, or our collaborators', or our competitors', currently pending or future application(s) for regulatory approval of product candidate(s) or new indications for marketed products; announcement of submission of an application for regulatory approval of one or more of our, or our competitors', product candidates or new indications for marketed products; progress, delays, or results in clinical trials of our or our competitors' product candidates or new indications for marketed products; announcement of technological innovations or product candidates by us or competitors; claims by others that our products or technologies infringe their patents; challenges by others to our patents in the european patent office and in the u.s. patent and trademark office; public concern as to the safety or effectiveness of any of our marketed products or product candidates or new indications for our marketed products; pricing or reimbursement actions, decisions, or recommendations by government authorities, insurers, or other organizations (such as health maintenance organizations and pharmacy benefit management companies) affecting the coverage, reimbursement, or use of any of our marketed products or competitors' products; our ability to raise additional capital as needed on favorable terms; developments in our relationships with collaborators or key customers; developments in the biotechnology industry or in government regulation of healthcare, including those relating to compounding; large sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors, or significant shareholders; changes in tax rates, laws, or interpretation of tax laws; arrivals and departures of key personnel; general market conditions; other factors identified in these "risk factors"; and the perception by the investment community or our shareholders of any of the foregoing factors. the trading price of our common stock has been, and could continue to be, subject to wide fluctuations in response to these and other factors, including the sale or attempted sale of a large amount of our common stock in the market. as discussed in greater detail under " future sales of our common stock by our significant shareholders or us may depress our stock price and impair our ability to raise funds in new share offerings " below, a large percentage of our common stock is owned by a small number of our principal shareholders, and our largest shareholder, sanofi, has been increasing its ownership of our common stock. as a result, the public float of our common stock ( i.e. , the portion of our common stock held by public investors, as opposed to the common stock held by our directors, officers, and principal shareholders) is low relative to many large public companies. as our common stock is less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership, its trading price may fluctuate significantly more than the stock market as a whole. these factors may exacerbate the volatility in the trading price of our common stock and may negatively impact your ability to liquidate your investment in regeneron at the time you wish at a price you consider satisfactory. broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the market price of our common stock. in the past, securities class action litigation has often been initiated against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. this type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources, and could also require us to make substantial payments to satisfy judgments or to settle litigation, which may harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. future sales of our common stock by our significant shareholders or us may depress our stock price and impair our ability to raise funds in new share offerings. a small number of our shareholders beneficially own a substantial amount of our common stock. as of december 31, 2015, our five largest shareholders plus dr. schleifer, our chief executive officer, beneficially owned approximately 46.4% of our outstanding shares of common stock, assuming, in the case of our chief executive officer, the conversion of his class a stock into common stock and the exercise of all options held by him which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2015. as of december 31, 2015, sanofi beneficially owned 23,108,570 shares of our common stock, representing approximately 22.5% of the shares of common stock then outstanding. under our january 2014 amended and restated investor agreement with sanofi, sanofi has three demand rights to require us to use all reasonable efforts to conduct a registered underwritten offering with respect to shares of our common stock held by sanofi from time to time; however, shares of our common stock held by sanofi from time to time may not be sold until the later of (i) december 20, 2020 and (ii) the expiration of our antibody discovery agreement with sanofi relating to our antibody collaboration (as amended) if the agreement is extended beyond december 20, 2020. these restrictions on dispositions are subject to earlier termination upon the occurrence of certain events, such as the consummation of a change-of-control transaction involving us or a dissolution or liquidation of our company. in february 2013, we received from sanofi a notification under the hart-scott-rodino antitrust improvements act of 1976 that it intends to acquire additional common 49 table of contents stock through open market purchases and direct purchases from shareholders. in december 2015, sanofi disclosed in an amendment to its schedule 13d filed with the sec its intention to purchase (subject to market conditions, including the price and availability of shares of our common stock, and legal and regulatory requirements) additional shares of our common stock to maintain and opportunistically increase its beneficial ownership on a percentage basis up to the maximum allowed under the "standstill" provisions of our amended and restated investor agreement with sanofi, or 30% of our class a stock and common stock (taken together). if sanofi, our other significant shareholders, or we sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or there is a perception that such sales may occur, the market price of our common stock could fall. sales of common stock by our significant shareholders, including sanofi, also might make it more difficult for us to raise funds by selling equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. our existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval and over our management. holders of class a stock, who are generally the shareholders who purchased their stock from us before our initial public offering, are entitled to ten votes per share, while holders of common stock are entitled to one vote per share. as of december 31, 2015, holders of class a stock held 15.7% of the combined voting power of all shares of common stock and class a stock then outstanding. these shareholders, if acting together, would be in a position to significantly influence the election of our directors and the vote on certain corporate transactions that require majority or supermajority approval of the combined classes, including mergers and other business combinations. this may result in our taking corporate actions that other shareholders may not consider to be in their best interest and may affect the price of our common stock. as of december 31, 2015: our current executive officers and directors beneficially owned 10.5% of our outstanding shares of common stock, assuming conversion of their class a stock into common stock and the exercise of all options held by such persons which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2015, and 21.8% of the combined voting power of our outstanding shares of common stock and class a stock, assuming the exercise of all options held by such persons which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2015; and our five largest shareholders plus dr. schleifer, our chief executive officer, beneficially owned approximately 46.4% of our outstanding shares of common stock, assuming, in the case of our chief executive officer, the conversion of his class a stock into common stock and the exercise of all options held by him which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2015. in addition, these five shareholders plus our chief executive officer held approximately 52.4% of the combined voting power of our outstanding shares of common stock and class a stock, assuming the exercise of all options held by our chief executive officer which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2015. pursuant to the january 2014 amended and restated investor agreement with us, sanofi has agreed to vote its shares as recommended by our board of directors, except that it may elect to vote proportionally with the votes cast by all of our other shareholders with respect to certain change-of-control transactions and to vote in its sole discretion with respect to liquidation or dissolution of our company, stock issuances equal to or exceeding 20% of the then outstanding shares or voting rights of common stock and class a stock (taken together), and new equity compensation plans or amendments if not materially consistent with our historical equity compensation practices. in addition, upon sanofi reaching 20% ownership of our then outstanding shares of class a stock and common stock (taken together), we are required under the amended and restated investor agreement to appoint an individual agreed upon by us and sanofi to our board of directors. subject to certain exceptions, we are required to use our reasonable efforts (including recommending that our shareholders vote in favor) to cause the election of this designee at our annual shareholder meetings for so long as sanofi maintains an equity interest in us that is the lower of (i) the highest percentage ownership sanofi attains following its acquisition of 20% of our then outstanding shares of class a stock and common stock (taken together) and (ii) 25% of our then outstanding shares of class a stock and common stock (taken together). this designee is required to be "independent" of our company, as determined under nasdaq rules, and not to be a current or former officer, director, employee, or paid consultant of sanofi. in april 2014, sanofi notified us that it had reached the 20% ownership threshold and designated robert a. ingram as its designee. on april 4, 2014, following recommendation of the corporate governance and compliance committee, the board of directors elected mr. ingram as a director and a member of the compensation committee. mr. ingram was subsequently elected as a class i director at our 2014 annual shareholder meeting for a term expiring at the 2016 annual shareholder meeting and resigned on november 10, 2015. in december 2015, sanofi disclosed in an amendment to its schedule 13d filed with the sec its intention to designate a successor designee. 50 table of contents the convertible note hedges and warrant transactions we entered into in connection with our convertible senior notes issuance may affect the trading price of our common stock. in connection with our offering of our 1.875% convertible senior notes due october 1, 2016, or the notes, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions with four financial institutions, or the hedge counterparties, the purpose of which was to reduce the potential dilution to our common stock and/or offset potential cash payments in excess of the principal amount of the notes (as applicable) upon conversion of the notes. in the event that the hedge counterparties fail to deliver shares to us or potential cash payments (as applicable) as required under the convertible note hedge documents, we would not receive the benefit of such transactions. separately, we also entered into warrant transactions with the hedge counterparties. the warrant transactions could separately have a dilutive effect from the issuance of common stock pursuant to the warrants. as of december 31, 2015, an aggregate principal amount of $11.2 million of the notes and 2,109,098 warrants (subject to adjustment from time to time as provided in the applicable warrant agreements) remained outstanding. in connection with hedging these transactions, the hedge counterparties and/or their affiliates may have entered into various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock, and may enter into, or may unwind, various derivative transactions and/or purchase or sell our common stock or other securities of ours in secondary market transactions prior to maturity of the notes (and are likely to do so during any conversion period related to any conversion of the notes). these activities could have the effect of increasing or preventing a decline in, or could have a negative effect on, the value of our common stock and could have the effect of increasing or preventing a decline in the value of our common stock during any cash settlement averaging period related to a conversion of the notes. in addition, we intend to continue to exercise options under the convertible note hedge transactions whenever notes are converted. in order to unwind their hedge position with respect to the options we exercise, the hedge counterparties and/or their affiliates may sell shares of our common stock or other securities in secondary market transactions or unwind various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock during the cash settlement averaging period for the converted notes. the effect, if any, of any of these transactions and activities on the trading price of our common stock or the notes will depend in part on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time, but any of these activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock and the value of the notes. the derivative transactions that the hedge counterparties and/or their affiliates expect to enter into to hedge these transactions may include cash-settled equity swaps referenced to our common stock. in certain circumstances, the hedge counterparties and/or their affiliates may have derivative positions that, when combined with the hedge counterparties' and their affiliates' ownership of our common stock, if any, would give them economic exposure to the return on a significant number of shares of our common stock. the anti-takeover effects of provisions of our charter, by-laws, and of new york corporate law, as well as the contractual provisions in our investor and collaboration agreements and certain provisions of our compensation plans and agreements and our notes and related warrant and hedge transactions, could deter, delay, or prevent an acquisition or other "change in control" of us and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. our certificate of incorporation, our by-laws, and the new york business corporation law contain various provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company or our management that shareholders may consider favorable or beneficial. some of these provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. these provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. these provisions include: authorization to issue "blank check" preferred stock, which is preferred stock that can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior shareholder approval, with rights senior to those of our common stock and class a stock; a staggered board of directors, so that it would take three successive annual meetings to replace all of our directors; a requirement that removal of directors may only be effected for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of at least eighty percent (80%) of the outstanding shares entitled to vote for directors, as well as a requirement that any vacancy on the board of directors may be filled only by the remaining directors; a provision whereby any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of shareholders may be taken without a meeting, only if, prior to such action, all of our shareholders consent, the effect of which is to require that shareholder action may only be taken at a duly convened meeting; a requirement that any shareholder seeking to bring business before an annual meeting of shareholders must provide timely notice of this intention in writing and meet various other requirements; and under the new york business corporation law, in addition to certain restrictions which may apply to "business combinations" involving our company and an "interested shareholder," a plan of merger or consolidation of our company must be approved by two-thirds of the votes of all outstanding shares entitled to vote thereon. see the risk factor above captioned " our existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval and over our management. " 51 table of contents pursuant to the january 2014 amended and restated investor agreement between us and sanofi, sanofi is bound by certain "standstill" provisions, which contractually prohibit sanofi from seeking to directly or indirectly exert control of our company or acquiring more than 30% of our class a stock and common stock (taken together). this prohibition will remain in place until the earliest of (i) the later of the fifth anniversaries of the expiration or earlier termination of our license and collaboration agreement with sanofi relating to our antibody collaboration or our zaltrap collaboration agreement with sanofi, each as amended; (ii) our announcement recommending acceptance by our shareholders of a tender offer or exchange offer that, if consummated, would constitute a change of control involving us; (iii) the public announcement of any definitive agreement providing for a change of control involving us; (iv) the date of any issuance of shares of common stock by us that would result in another party having more than 10% of the voting power of our then outstanding class a stock and common stock (taken together) unless such party enters into a standstill agreement containing certain terms substantially similar to the standstill obligations of sanofi; or (v) other specified events, such as a liquidation or dissolution of our company. similarly, under our 2014 pdgfr-beta license and collaboration agreement with bayer healthcare, bayer healthcare is prohibited from seeking to influence the control of our company or acquiring more than 20% of our then outstanding class a stock and common stock (taken together). this prohibition will remain in place until the earliest of (i) the fifth anniversary of the expiration or earlier termination of the agreement; (ii) the public announcement of a tender offer, exchange offer, or other proposal that would constitute a change of control of our company; (iii) the acquisition (other than by dr. schleifer or his affiliates) of more than 20% of the voting power of our then outstanding class a stock and common stock (taken together); (iv) the issuance of shares of capital stock to another party (other than to an underwriter in a public offering) that would result in such party's having more than 7% of the voting power of our then outstanding class a stock and common stock (taken together) unless such third party enters into a standstill agreement containing terms substantially similar to the standstill obligations of bayer healthcare; or (v) other specified events, such as a liquidation or dissolution of our company. the holders of our notes have fundamental change purchase rights, which require us to purchase all or a portion of their notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, as defined in the indenture governing the notes. in addition, the indenture contains provisions requiring an increase to the conversion rate for conversions in connection with make-whole fundamental changes. these rights and provisions may in certain circumstances delay or prevent a takeover of us and the removal of incumbent management that might otherwise be beneficial to investors. in addition, upon the occurrence of certain extraordinary events, the hedge transactions would be exercised upon the conversion of notes, and the warrant transactions may be terminated. it is possible that the proceeds we receive upon the exercise of the convertible note hedge transactions would be significantly lower than the amounts we would be required to pay upon termination of the warrant transactions. such differences may result in the acquisition of us being on terms less favorable to our shareholders than it would otherwise be. in addition, our change in control severance plan and the employment agreement with our chief executive officer, each as amended and restated, provide for severance benefits in the event of termination as a result of a change in control of our company. also, stock options issued under our second amended and restated 2000 long-term incentive plan and our 2014 long-term incentive plan may become fully vested in connection with a "change in control" of our company, as defined in the plans. further, under the amended and restated investor agreement between us and sanofi, we are required under certain circumstances to appoint an individual agreed upon by us and sanofi to our board of directors and to use our reasonable efforts to cause the election of this designee at our annual shareholder meetings for so long as sanofi maintains a specified equity interest in us. as described above under " our existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval and over our management ," a sanofi designee served on our board of directors from april 2014 to november 2015, and sanofi has disclosed its intention to designate a successor designee. these contractual provisions may also have the effect of deterring, delaying, or preventing an acquisition or other change in control. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 89 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our earnings and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to changes in interest rates, principally in connection with our investments in marketable securities, which consist primarily of corporate bonds, direct obligations of the u.s. government and its agencies and other debt securities guaranteed by the u.s. government, and municipal bonds. we do not believe we are materially exposed to changes in interest rates. we do not currently use interest rate derivative instruments to manage exposure to interest rate changes. we estimate that a 100 basis point, or 1%, unfavorable change in interest rates would have resulted in approximately a $11.7 million and $6.7 million decrease in the fair value of our investment portfolio as of december 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. credit quality risk we have an investment policy that includes guidelines on acceptable investment securities, minimum credit quality, maturity parameters, and concentration and diversification. nonetheless, deterioration of the credit quality of an investment security subsequent to purchase may subject us to the risk of not being able to recover the full principal value of the security. during 2015 and 2014, we recorded no charges for other-than-temporary impairments of our marketable securities. during 2013, we recorded an other-than-temporary impairment charge of $2.9 million related to our investment in an equity security. 89 table of contents we are also subject to credit risk in connection with accounts receivable from our product sales of eylea and arcalyst. these accounts receivable are due from several distributors and specialty pharmacies, who are our customers. we have contractual payment terms with each of our customers, and we monitor our customers' financial performance and credit worthiness so that we can properly assess and respond to any changes in their credit profile. in addition, we may insure a portion of our accounts receivables within our overall risk management practices. during 2015, 2014, and 2013, we did not recognize any charges for write-offs of accounts receivable related to our marketed products. as of december 31, 2015 and 2014 , one individual customer accounted for 68% and 70% , respectively, of our net trade accounts receivable balances. foreign exchange risk as discussed further above, bayer healthcare markets eylea outside the united states and sanofi markets praluent worldwide, and we share in profits and losses with these collaborators from commercialization of products (including the receipt of a percentage of eylea sales in japan). in addition, pursuant to the applicable terms of the agreements with our collaborators, we also share in certain worldwide development expenses incurred by our collaborators. we also incur worldwide development expenses for clinical products we are developing independently. therefore, significant changes in foreign exchange rates of the countries outside the united states where our product is sold or where development expenses are incurred by us or our collaborators can impact our operating results and financial condition. as sales outside the united states continue to grow, and as we expand our international operations, we will continue to assess potential steps, including foreign currency hedging and other strategies, to mitigate our foreign exchange risk.risk factors 27 "risk factors," which could cause actual events and results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. we do not undertake any obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. general regeneron pharmaceuticals, inc. is a fully integrated biopharmaceutical company that discovers, invents, develops, manufactures, and commercializes medicines for the treatment of serious medical conditions. we commercialize medicines for eye diseases, high low-density lipoprotein (ldl) cholesterol, and a rare inflammatory condition and have product candidates in development in other areas of high unmet medical need, including rheumatoid arthritis (ra), asthma, atopic dermatitis, pain, cancer, and infectious diseases. our significant 2016 business highlights include: eylea (aflibercept) injection, which is approved by the u.s. food and drug administration (fda) for use in retinal indications, delivered u.s. net sales growth of 24.2% over 2015, and continues to be the market-leading, branded anti-vegf therapy in the united states. a phase 3 study for the treatment of non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy (npdr) in patients without dme was initiated. we, along with our partner sanofi, received regulatory approval for praluent in additional countries outside the united states. praluent has been launched in the united states, europe, and other countries. we also reported positive phase 3 data from the odyssey escape study of praluent in patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (hefh) and consequently, high ldl cholesterol levels who were undergoing apheresis. a phase 3 cardiovascular outcomes study of praluent is ongoing. we reported positive efficacy and safety data from phase 3 studies of dupixent in patients with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis. the fda accepted, and granted priority review for, the biologics license application (bla) for dupixent for the treatment of atopic dermatitis with a target action date of march 29, 2017. in addition, the european medicines agency (ema) accepted for review the marketing authorization application (maa) for dupixent for the treatment of atopic dermatitis. the fda granted breakthrough therapy designation for dupixent for the treatment of atopic dermatitis 2 table of contents in pediatric patients. a phase 3 study of dupilumab for the treatment of uncontrolled, persistent asthma completed enrollment. a phase 3 study of dupilumab for the treatment of nasal polyps was also initiated. a phase 3 study of fasinumab in patients with pain due to osteoarthritis of the knee or hip was initiated. a phase 2b study of fasinumab in chronic low back pain was also initiated and later placed on clinical hold by the fda. we completed an unplanned analysis of this phase 2b study in chronic low back pain which showed clear evidence of efficacy with improvement in pain scores in all fasinumab groups compared to placebo. regn2810 entered a potentially pivotal clinical study for the treatment of advanced cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma. phase 2 studies of eylea, in a co-formulated combination with nesvacumab, an antibody to angiopoietin-2 (ang2), advanced in clinical development for the treatment of wet amd and dme. we advanced four new product candidates (regn3500, regn3470-3471-3479, regn2477, and regn3767) into phase 1 clinical development. we entered into significant new research and development license and collaboration arrangements: a collaboration with bayer for a co-formulated combination therapy of the ang2 antibody nesvacumab and aflibercept for the treatment of serious eye diseases; a collaboration with teva for fasinumab; a license and collaboration with intellia therapeutics, inc. to advance crispr/cas gene-editing technology for in vivo therapeutic development; and a license and collaboration agreement with adicet bio, inc. to develop next-generation engineered immune-cell therapeutics with fully human chimeric antigen receptors and t-cell receptors directed to disease-specific cell surface antigens in order to enable the precise engagement and killing of tumor cells. our initiatives in genomics also advanced, and we have sequenced over 150,000 exomes to date. from a company growth perspective, we hired our 5,000 th employee, purchased an office building near our tarrytown facility, purchased land and an office building near our rensselaer, new york facilities, continued to expand our bulk drug product manufacturing operations in rensselaer, new york, and continued building out and hiring people for our new limerick, ireland commercial manufacturing facility. we were named the top employer in the global biotech and pharmaceutical industry by science magazine. we have been ranked first for four of the past six years, with second place rankings in 2015 and 2011. society for science &amp; the public announced that regeneron has become the new title sponsor of the science talent search. regeneron became only the third sponsor in 75 years of the nation's oldest and most prestigious high school science competition. our total revenues were $4,860.4 million in 2016, compared to $4,103.7 million in 2015 and $2,819.6 million in 2014. our net income was $895.5 million , or $7.70 per diluted share, in 2016, compared to $636.1 million , or $5.52 per diluted share, in 2015, and $338.1 million , or $2.98 per diluted share, in 2014. refer to part ii, item 7. "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - results of operations" below for further details of our financial results. we currently have five products that have received marketing approval: eylea (aflibercept) injection , known in the scientific literature as vegf trap-eye, which is available in the united states, european union (eu), japan, and certain other countries outside the united states for the treatment of neovascular age-related macular degeneration (wet amd), diabetic macular edema (dme), macular edema following retinal vein occlusion (rvo), which includes macular edema following central retinal vein occlusion (crvo) and macular edema following branch retinal vein occlusion (brvo). eylea is also available in the eu, japan, and certain other countries outside the united states for the treatment of myopic choroidal neovascularization (mcnv) and in the united states for the treatment of diabetic retinopathy in patients with dme. bayer has additional regulatory applications for eylea for various indications pending in other countries. we are collaborating with bayer on the development and commercialization of eylea outside the united states. praluent (alirocumab) injection , which is available in the united states where it is indicated as an adjunct to diet and maximally tolerated statin therapy for the treatment of adults with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia or clinical atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ascvd), who require additional lowering of ldl cholesterol. praluent is also available in certain countries in europe for the treatment of adult patients with primary hypercholesterolemia (hefh and non-familial) or mixed dyslipidemia as an adjunct to diet: (a) in combination with a statin, or statin with other lipid-lowering therapies in patients unable to reach their ldl-cholesterol goals with the maximally-tolerated dose of a statin, or (b) alone or in combination with other lipid-lowering therapies for patients who are statin intolerant, or for whom a statin is contraindicated. in july 2016, the japanese ministry of health, labour and welfare (mhlw) granted marketing and manufacturing authorization for praluent for the treatment of uncontrolled ldl cholesterol, in certain adult patients with hypercholesterolemia at high cardiovascular risk. the effect of praluent on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality has not been determined. we are collaborating with sanofi on the global development and commercialization of praluent. see part i, item 3. "legal proceedings" for information regarding the patent infringement proceedings relating to praluent, which may impact praluent's commercial availability in the united states and other jurisdictions. 3 table of contents arcalyst (rilonacept) injection for subcutaneous use , which is available in the united states for the treatment of cryopyrin-associated periodic syndromes (caps), including familial cold auto-inflammatory syndrome (fcas) and muckle-wells syndrome (mws), in adults and children 12 years and older. kevzara tm (sarilumab) solution for subcutaneous injection . in january 2017, health canada approved kevraza for the treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis who have an inadequate response to or intolerance to one or more biologic or non-biologic disease modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (dmards). this is the first approval of kevzara worldwide. zaltrap (ziv-aflibercept) injection for intravenous infusion , known in the scientific literature as vegf trap, which is available in the united states, eu, and certain other countries for treatment, in combination with 5-fluorouracil, leucovorin, irinotecan (folfiri), of patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (mcrc) that is resistant to or has progressed following an oxaliplatin-containing regimen. pursuant to a 2015 amended and restated zaltrap agreement (amended zaltrap agreement), sanofi is solely responsible for the development and commercialization of zaltrap, and sanofi pays us a percentage of aggregate net sales of zaltrap. we have 16 product candidates in clinical development, all of which were discovered in our research laboratories. these consist of a trap-based clinical program and 15 fully human monoclonal antibody product candidates, as summarized below. each of the antibodies in the table below was generated using our velocimmune technology. trap-based clinical program eylea phase 3 study for the treatment of neovascular glaucoma (nvg) (in japan) was completed in 2016 (in collaboration with bayer). phase 3 study for the treatment of non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy in patients without dme initiated in the first quarter of 2016. as described below, aflibercept is also being studied in combination with nesvacumab, an antibody to angiopoietin-2 (ang2). antibody-based clinical programs in collaboration with sanofi praluent antibody to pcsk9. in phase 3 clinical development for ldl cholesterol reduction and for the prevention of cardiovascular events. sarilumab (regn88) antibody to the interleukin-6 receptor (il-6r). in clinical development in rheumatoid arthritis (phase 3) and non-infectious uveitis (phase 2). phase 2 study in polyarticular-course juvenile idiopathic arthritis (pcjia) initiated in the third quarter of 2016. dupixent (dupilumab/regn668) antibody to the interleukin-4 receptor (il-4r) alpha subunit. in clinical development in atopic dermatitis in adults (phase 3), atopic dermatitis in pediatric patients (phase 2), asthma in adults and adolescents (phase 3), and eosinophilic esophagitis (eoe) (phase 2). phase 3 study in patients with nasal polyps initiated in the fourth quarter of 2016. regn2810 antibody to programmed cell death protein 1 (pd-1). in phase 1 clinical development in solid tumors and advanced hematologic malignancies. potentially pivotal phase 2 study for the treatment of advanced cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma initiated in the second quarter of 2016. regn 2810 is also being studied in combination with other antibodies and treatments. regn3500 antibody to interleukin-33 receptor (il-33) being developed for inflammatory diseases. phase 1 study in healthy volunteers initiated in the third quarter of 2016. phase 1 study in patients with mild asthma initiated in the first quarter of 2017. regn3767 antibody to lymphocyte activation gene 3 (lag-3) protein. phase 1 study (administered alone or in combination with regn2810) in advanced malignancies initiated in the fourth quarter 2016. antibody-based clinical program in collaboration with bayer nesvacumab/aflibercept (regn910-3) ** combination product comprised of an antibody to ang2 co-formulated with aflibercept for intravitreal injection for use in ophthalmology. phase 2 studies for the treatment of wet amd and dme initiated in the first quarter of 2016. fast track designation received from the fda for the treatment of patients with wet amd, dme and diabetic retinopathy. antibody-based clinical program in collaboration with teva and mitsubishi tanabe pharma fasinumab (regn475) * antibody to nerve growth factor (ngf). phase 3 long-term safety and efficacy study in patients with osteoarthritis of knee and hip initiated in the first quarter of 2016. phase 2b study for chronic low back pain initiated in the first quarter of 2016, and placed on clinical hold by the fda in october 2016. 4 table of contents antibody-based clinical programs developing independently regn2222 * antibody to the respiratory syncytial virus-f (rsv-f) protein. in phase 3 clinical development for prevention of rsv infection. evinacumab (regn1500) * antibody to angptl-3. in phase 2 clinical development for the treatment of homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (hofh) and severe forms of hyperlipidemia. fda granted orphan drug designation for the treatment of hofh. trevogrumab (regn1033) * antibody to myostatin (gdf8). phase 2 monotherapy study in patients with sarcopenia completed. regn1033 is being studied in combination with regn2477. regn1908-1909 * antibody to feld1. in phase 1 clinical development for the treatment of allergic disease. regn1979 bispecific antibody against cd20 and cd3. in phase 1 clinical development for non-hodgkin's lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and acute lymphoblastic leukemia. regn1979 is also being studied in combination with regn2810 in b-cell malignancies. regn3470-3471-3479 *** antibody to ebola virus. phase 1 study in healthy volunteers initiated in the second quarter of 2016. also in the second quarter of 2016, the fda granted orphan drug designation for the treatment of ebola virus infection. regn2477 * antibody to activin a being developed for fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva (fop). phase 1 study in combination with regn1033 in healthy volunteers initiated in the second quarter of 2016. fda granted orphan drug designation for the treatment of fop. * sanofi did not opt-in to or elected not to continue to co-develop the product candidate. under the terms of our agreement, sanofi is entitled to receive royalties on any future sales of the product candidate. ** antibodies targeting the ang2 receptor and ligand in ophthalmology were previously included in our antibody collaboration with sanofi. under the terms of our agreement, sanofi is entitled to receive royalties on any future sales of the product candidate and a potential development milestone. *** sanofi did not opt-in to the product candidate. under the terms of our agreement, sanofi is entitled to receive royalties on any future sales of the product candidate. in 2015, we and the biomedical advanced research development authority (barda) of the u.s. department of health and human services (hhs) entered into an agreement whereby hhs provides certain funding to support research, development, and manufacturing of a monoclonal antibody therapy for the treatment of ebola virus infection. our core business strategy is to maintain a strong foundation in basic scientific research and discovery-enabling technologies, and to combine that foundation with our clinical development, manufacturing, and commercial capabilities. we are executing our long-term objective to build a successful, integrated, multi-product biopharmaceutical company that provides patients and medical professionals with innovative options for preventing and treating human diseases. we believe that our ability to develop product candidates is enhanced by the application of our velocisuite technology platforms. our discovery platforms are designed to identify specific proteins of therapeutic interest for a particular disease or cell type and validate these targets through high-throughput production of genetically modified mice using our velocigene technology to understand the role of these proteins in normal physiology, as well as in models of disease. our human monoclonal antibody technology ( velocimmune ) and cell line expression technologies ( velocimab ) may then be utilized to discover and produce new product candidates directed against the disease target. our antibody product candidates currently in clinical trials were developed using velocimmune . we continue to invest in the development of enabling technologies to assist in our efforts to identify, develop, manufacture, and commercialize new product candidates. 5 table of contents marketed products eylea (aflibercept) injection we commenced sales of eylea in the united states for the treatment of wet amd in 2011, macular edema following crvo in 2012, dme and macular edema following rvo in 2014, and diabetic retinopathy in patients with dme in 2015. outside the united states, bayer commenced sales of eylea for the treatment of wet amd in 2012, macular edema secondary to crvo in 2013, and visual impairment due to dme and mcnv (in japan) in 2014. in 2015, the european commission and the japanese ministry of health, labour and welfare (mhlw) approved eylea for the treatment of macular edema following rvo, which includes macular edema following brvo. in addition, the european commission approved eylea for the treatment of visual impairment due to mcnv in 2015. bayer has additional regulatory applications for eylea for various indications pending in other countries, including eylea for the treatment of wet amd in china. we are collaborating with bayer on the global development and commercialization of eylea outside the united states. bayer markets, and records revenue from sales of eylea outside the united states, where, for countries other than japan, the companies share equally the profits and losses from sales of eylea. in japan, we are entitled to receive a percentage of the sales of eylea. we maintain exclusive rights to eylea in the united states and are entitled to all profits from such sales. net product sales of eylea in the united states were $3,323.1 million in 2016, compared to $2,676.0 million in 2015 and $1,736.4 million in 2014. bayer records net product sales of eylea outside the united states, which were $1,872.3 million in 2016, compared to $1,413.3 million in 2015 and $1,038.5 million in 2014. praluent (alirocumab) injection in july 2015, the fda approved praluent as an adjunct to diet and maximally tolerated statin therapy for the treatment of adults with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia or clinical ascvd, who require additional lowering of ldl cholesterol. in september 2015, the european commission granted marketing authorization of praluent for the treatment of adult patients with primary hypercholesterolemia (hefh and non-familial) or mixed dyslipidemia as an adjunct to diet: (a) in combination with a statin, or statin with other lipid-lowering therapies in patients unable to reach their ldl-cholesterol goals with the maximally-tolerated dose of a statin, or (b) alone or in combination with other lipid-lowering therapies for patients who are statin intolerant, or for whom a statin is contraindicated. in july 2016, the japanese ministry of health, labour and welfare (mhlw) granted marketing and manufacturing authorization for praluent for the treatment of uncontrolled ldl cholesterol, in certain adult patients with hypercholesterolemia at high cardiovascular risk. in november 2016, the european commission approved a praluent dosing regimen of 300 milligrams (mg) every 4 weeks. the effect of praluent on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality has not been determined. we are collaborating with sanofi on the global development and commercialization of praluent. see part i, item 3. "legal proceedings" for information regarding the patent infringement proceedings relating to praluent, which may impact praluent's commercial availability in the united states and other jurisdictions. under our antibody collaboration agreement, sanofi records product sales and cost of sales for commercialized products, and regeneron has the right to co-promote such products. we have exercised our option to co-promote praluent in the united states and thus far have not exercised our option to co-promote praluent outside the united states. we and sanofi share profits and losses from sales of praluent. in 2016, net product sales of praluent in the united states were $94.4 million and net product sales of praluent outside of the united states were $21.9 million . in 2015, net product sales of praluent in the united states were $9.5 million and net product sales of praluent outside of the united states were $1.0 million . arcalyst (rilonacept) injection for subcutaneous use arcalyst is available in the united states for the treatment of caps in adults and children 12 years and older. caps are a group of rare, inherited, auto-inflammatory conditions characterized by life-long, recurrent symptoms of rash, fever/chills, joint pain, eye redness/pain, and fatigue. intermittent, disruptive exacerbations or flares can be triggered at any time by exposure to cooling temperatures, stress, exercise, or other unknown stimuli. net product sales of arcalyst were $15.3 million in 2016, $13.5 million in 2015, and $14.4 million in 2014. 6 table of contents clinical programs - ophthalmologic diseases eylea - ophthalmologic diseases overview vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) is a naturally occurring protein in the body. its normal role in a healthy organism is to trigger formation of new blood vessels (angiogenesis) supporting the growth of the body's tissues and organs. however, in certain diseases, such as wet amd, it is also associated with the growth of abnormal new blood vessels in the eye, which exhibit abnormal increased permeability that leads to edema. scarring and loss of fine-resolution central vision often results. crvo is caused by obstruction of the central retinal vein that leads to a back-up of blood and fluid in the retina. release of vegf contributes to increased vascular permeability in the eye and macular edema. in brvo, a blockage occurs in the blood vessels branching from the main vein draining the retina, resulting in the release of vegf and consequent retinal edema. for centrally involved dme, vegf-mediated leakage of fluid from blood vessels in the eye results in interference with vision. wet amd, diabetic retinopathy (which includes dme), and rvo are three of the leading causes of adult blindness in the developed world. in these conditions, severe visual loss is caused by neovascular proliferation and/or retinal edema. eylea is a recombinant fusion protein, consisting of portions of human vegf receptors 1 and 2 extracellular domains fused to the fc portion of human igg1 and formulated as an iso-osmotic solution for intravitreal administration. eylea acts as a soluble decoy receptor that binds vegf-a and placental growth factor (plgf) and thereby can inhibit the binding and activation of these cognate vegf receptors. eylea is specially purified and contains iso-osmotic buffer concentrations, allowing for injection into the eye. neovascular glaucoma nvg is a secondary glaucoma triggered by the formation of new blood vessels (neovascularization) on the iris and the anterior chamber angle. neovascularization restricts aqueous outflow and consequently elevates intraocular pressure (iop). nvg is a serious condition that may lead to permanent loss of vision, a persistently painful eye, and, especially in the advanced stages, is unlikely to respond to treatment. nvg is caused by eye diseases leading to retinal ischemia, mainly crvo, proliferative diabetic retinopathy (pdr), and ocular ischemic syndrome (ois). nvg meets the criteria for an orphan indication in japan where the estimated number of nvg patients is 30,000 to 40,000. in 2015, bayer initiated a phase 3 study in japan to assess the efficacy and safety of intravitreal administration of aflibercept in comparison to sham treatment on the change in iop in patients with nvg. the primary endpoint of this phase 3 study (n=54), which was the change in iop from baseline to week 1, was numerically in favor of eylea (p=0.06). statistically significant improvements were observed in both neovascularization of the iris and neovascularization of the iridocorneal angle with eylea, compared to sham treatment. most ocular treatment emergent adverse events were injection related, including conjunctival hemorrhage and injection site pain in the eylea group. diabetic retinopathy diabetic retinopathy is a complication of diabetes mellitus characterized by microvascular damage to the blood vessels in the retina. it can progress to proliferative diabetic retinopathy (pdr), where new, abnormal vessels that are susceptible to hemorrhage grow initially from the retina and/or optic disc and extend beyond the internal limiting membrane. pdr can subsequently lead to various vision-threatening complications such as vitreous hemorrhage, traction macular detachment, and neovascular glaucoma. there is currently no standard treatment for non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy (npdr) in the absence of dme and patients are often observed until disease progresses sufficiently to warrant intraocular surgery (vitrectomy) or, more commonly, extensive laser treatment (panretinal photocoagulation (prp)). prp is utilized with the intent of preserving function of the central retina, but is inherently destructive to the peripheral retina and may result in a considerable loss of peripheral visual field. in the first quarter of 2016, a phase 3 trial (panorama) was initiated to assess the efficacy and safety of intravitreal aflibercept in patients with moderately severe to severe npdr without dme. combination product with rinucumab we have recently discontinued the phase 2 capella study, evaluating aflibercept co-formulated with rinucumab in patients with wet amd. the data from the study showed that at 12 and 28 weeks, the combination therapy did not add to the improvement in best corrected visual acuity (bcva) that was demonstrated with intravitreal aflibercept injection monotherapy, the primary endpoint of the study. results in the eylea monotherapy arm of this study were consistent with the efficacy and safety observed in phase 3 pivotal studies of eylea in wet amd. 7 table of contents combination product with nesvacumab in the first quarter of 2016, two phase 2 studies, ruby (for the treatment of dme) and onyx (for the treatment of wet amd), were initiated. both studies are investigating nesvacumab, an antibody to ang2 co-formulated with aflibercept, as a single, intravitreal injection. efficacy and safety data from both the ruby and onyx studies will be analyzed at week 36. late-stage antibody-based clinical programs praluent for ldl cholesterol reduction overview elevated ldl cholesterol ("bad cholesterol") level is a validated risk factor leading to cardiovascular disease. statins are a class of drugs that lower ldl cholesterol (ldl-c) through inhibition of hmg-coa, an enzyme regulating the early and rate-limiting step in cholesterol biosynthesis that ultimately results in an increase in ldl receptors to increase the uptake of plasma ldl lipoproteins. similar to statins, pcsk9 impacts the number of available ldl receptors and therefore plays a key role in modulating ldl-c levels in the body. pcsk9 is a secreted protein that binds to and induces the destruction of the ldl receptor, thereby interfering with cellular uptake and increasing circulating levels of ldl cholesterol. in a landmark study published in the new england journal of medicine in march 2006, patients with lower than normal pcsk9 levels due to a genetic abnormality not only had significantly lower levels of ldl-c, but also a significant reduction in the risk of coronary heart disease (chd). we used our velocimmune technology to generate a fully human monoclonal antibody inhibitor of pcsk9, called praluent, which is intended to lower ldl cholesterol. clinical programs phase 3 odyssey program . the potential of praluent to demonstrate cardiovascular benefit is being prospectively assessed in the ongoing 18,000-patient odyssey outcomes trial, which is fully enrolled and is expected to be completed in 2017. all patients who entered the odyssey outcomes trial had experienced a heart attack or unstable angina requiring hospitalization within the previous year before entering the trial, and experienced inadequately controlled ldl cholesterol despite receiving maximally-tolerated statins and potentially other lipid-lowering therapies. in the first quarter of 2016, an independent data monitoring committee (dmc) of the odyssey outcomes study completed the first interim analysis. in accordance with the protocol, the dmc performed a futility assessment. the dmc recommended the study continue with no changes. in the fourth quarter of 2016, an independent dmc conducted a second, pre-specified interim analysis for futility and overwhelming efficacy (hazard ratio &lt;0.802 corresponding to p&lt;0.0001) for the primary endpoint with consistency across subgroups and regions, positive trends for secondary end points including all-cause mortality, and no excess non cardiovascular mortality. based on the recommendation of the independent dmc, the odyssey outcomes trial will continue as planned. regeneron remains blinded to the actual results of the first and second interim analyses, and the dmc will continue to monitor the ongoing safety and efficacy of praluent as planned. in the first quarter of 2016, we and sanofi announced positive results from the phase 3 odyssey escape trial evaluating praluent in patients with hefh, whose cholesterol levels required chronic, weekly or bi-weekly apheresis therapy. the trial met its primary endpoint, demonstrating that patients who added praluent to their existing treatment regimen significantly reduced the frequency of their apheresis therapy by 75%, compared to placebo (p&lt;0.0001). sixty-three percent of patients treated with praluent no longer required apheresis, compared to zero percent of placebo patients. apheresis is a procedure where bad (ldl) cholesterol is removed from the blood, in a process similar to kidney dialysis. in the third quarter of 2016, we and sanofi announced, and presented at the esc congress 2016, additional positive detailed results from the phase 3 odyssey escape trial. the trial demonstrated that adding praluent to existing therapy reduced ldl cholesterol by approximately 50% from baseline (compared to 2% increase for placebo). other key results from odyssey escape, which were also published in the european heart journal , included: ninety-three percent of patients treated with praluent experienced at least a 50% reduction in their apheresis procedures (p&lt;0.0001). throughout the trial, patients treated with praluent experienced significant reductions in their ldl cholesterol starting at week 6 (55% greater reduction compared to placebo), and lasting until the trial ended, at week 18 (46% greater reduction compared to placebo) (p&lt;0.0001). a similar proportion of patients experienced adverse events (aes) in both the praluent and placebo groups (76% in both groups). the most common aes (occurring in at least 5% of the praluent group) were fatigue (15% praluent; 10% placebo), nasopharyngitis (10% praluent; 10% placebo), diarrhea (10% praluent; 0% placebo), myalgia (10% praluent; 5% placebo), upper respiratory infection (7% praluent; 19% placebo), headache (7% praluent; 5% placebo), arthralgia (7% praluent; 10% placebo), and back pain (5% praluent; 10% placebo). 8 table of contents in the second quarter of 2016, the fda accepted for review a supplemental bla for a monthly dosing regimen of praluent, with a target action date of january 24, 2017. in january 2017, the fda extended the review period for the supplemental bla. the fda determined that regeneron's and sanofi's responses to information requested by the fda during its review of the sbla was a major amendment, which has resulted in a three month extension of the prescription drug user fee act (pdufa) date to allow time for the fda to review the additional information. the new target action date is april 24, 2017. in the fourth quarter of 2016, as a post-marketing commitment to the fda, a phase 4 randomized, placebo-controlled, long-term trial that prospectively evaluates the effect of praluent on neurocognitive function was initiated. sarilumab (regn88; il-6r antibody) for inflammatory diseases overview il-6 is a key cytokine involved in the pathogenesis of ra, causing inflammation and joint destruction. sarilumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody to il-6r generated using our velocimmune technology. rheumatoid arthritis phase 3 program . based on positive results from the phase 3 studies of sarilumab in adult patients with active ra, we and sanofi submitted a bla for u.s. regulatory approval of sarilumab, which was accepted for review by the fda in december 2015. the target date for an fda decision on the bla was october 30, 2016. however, on october 28, 2016, we and sanofi announced that the fda issued a complete response letter (crl) regarding the bla for sarilumab. the crl refers to certain deficiencies identified during a routine good manufacturing practice inspection of the sanofi facility in le trait, france where sarilumab is filled and finished, one of the last steps in the manufacturing process. satisfactory resolution of these deficiencies is required before the bla can be approved. the crl did not identify any concerns relating to the safety or efficacy of sarilumab. the fda subsequently reclassified the sanofi le trait fill-and-finish facility as "acceptable" based on review of responses to an fda form 483, as well as proposed corrective actions. in the first quarter of 2017, we expect to resubmit the sarilumab bla, contingent upon successful completion of the pre-approval inspection of le trait in connection with the dupixent bla. the sarilumab active pharmaceutical ingredient is manufactured by regeneron at its rensselaer, new york facility. the fda has completed a pre-approval inspection of regeneron's sarilumab manufacturing facility; no form 483 was issued in connection with the pre-approval inspection of regeneron's facility, which is the form used if the fda investigators have observed any conditions that in their judgement may constitute a violation of the food, drug, and cosmetic act and related acts. in july 2016, the european medicines agency (ema) accepted for review the marketing authorization application (maa) for sarilumab. in addition, in october 2016, an application for marketing approval for sarilumab was submitted in japan. in march 2016, we and sanofi announced positive top-line data from the phase 3 saril-ra-monarch study that demonstrated superiority of sarilumab vs. adalimumab (marketed by abbvie inc. as humira ) in improving signs and symptoms of ra at 24 weeks in patients with active rheumatoid arthritis. the primary endpoint was change from baseline in das28-esr at 24 weeks, which demonstrated a statistically significant difference in favor of sarilumab (-3.25 for sarilumab compared to -2.22 for adalimumab, p&lt;0.0001). the study also met clinically important secondary endpoints including improvements in signs and symptoms of ra as measured by patients achieving a 20% improvement in the american college of rheumatology (acr) criteria (72% for sarilumab vs. 58% for adalimumab, p&lt;0.01). additional positive secondary endpoints included acr50 and acr70 response, and improvement in physical function, as measured by the health assessment questionnaire - disability index (haq-di) as compared to adalimumab (p&lt;0.01 for all of these measures). das28-esr is a measure of disease activity in ra, which includes the evaluation of 28 joints in the body for tenderness and swelling, a general health assessment, and esr, a laboratory measure for inflammation. the incidence of aes (64% for both groups), serious aes (5% for sarilumab vs. 7% for adalimumab), infections (29% for sarilumab vs. 28% for adalimumab), and serious infections (1% for both groups) were generally similar between groups. neutropenia, which was not associated with infections, was more common with sarilumab (14% for sarilumab vs. 1% for adalimumab), as has been seen in previous studies with il-6 inhibitors. injection site erythema (8% sarilumab vs. 3% adalimumab) was also more common with sarilumab. in november 2016, detailed results of saril-ra-monarch study were presented during the american college of rheumatology (acr) annual meeting. 9 table of contents non-infectious uveitis phase 2 saril-niu-saturn study . saril-niu-saturn was a small phase 2, randomized double-masked, placebo-controlled study (n=58) conducted to assess the effect of sarilumab on non-infectious uveitis of the posterior ocular segment. we reported results of this study at the pre-specified primary endpoint (week 16) during 2015. top-line 52-week data were presented at the american academy of ophthalmology conference in october 2016. polyarticular-course juvenile idiopathic arthritis (pcjia) phase 2 pcjia study . a phase 2 study of sarilumab in pcjia was initiated in the third quarter of 2016 and is currently enrolling patients. dupixent (dupilumab/regn668; il-4r antibody) for allergic and inflammatory conditions overview il-4r is required for signaling by the cytokines il-4 and il-13. both of these cytokines are critical mediators of immune response, which, in turn, drives the formation of immunoglobulin e (ige) antibodies and the development of allergic responses, as well as the atopic state that underlies atopic (allergic) dermatitis, asthma, nasal polyps, and eosinophilic esophagitis. dupilumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody generated using our velocimmune technology that is designed to bind to il-4r alpha subunit and block signaling from both il-4 and il-13. atopic dermatitis phase 3 program . the liberty ad phase 3 clinical program consisted of five trials of patients with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis at sites worldwide. patients from the liberty ad chronos, liberty ad solo 1, and liberty ad solo 2 studies were transitioned to either the liberty continue or liberty ad open label extension trials. in 2014, the fda granted breakthrough therapy designation to dupixent for the treatment of adults with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis who are not adequately controlled with topical prescription therapy and/or for whom these treatments are not appropriate. this designation is based on positive results from phase 1 and 2 clinical trials, the determination that atopic dermatitis is a serious disease, and preliminary clinical evidence that indicates that the drug may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies. the fda has accepted for priority review the bla for dupixent for the treatment of adult patients with inadequately controlled moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis. the target date for an fda decision on the bla is march 29, 2017. an fda pre-approval inspection for dupixent at sanofi's le trait fill-and-finish facility has been scheduled for the first quarter of 2017. in addition, in december 2016, the ema accepted for review the maa for dupixent for the treatment of adults with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis who are candidates for systemic therapy. in 2015, the united kingdom (uk) medicines &amp; healthcare products regulatory agency (mhra) granted promising innovative medicine (pim) designation to dupixent in the short-term treatment of adult patients with severe atopic dermatitis who have responded inadequately to all available topical prescription treatments and/or systemic ciclosporin, or who are intolerant of or ineligible for such treatments. a pim designation is an early indication that a medicinal product is a promising candidate for the early access to medicines scheme (eams), in the treatment, diagnosis, or prevention of life-threatening or seriously debilitating conditions with unmet need. pim designation is the first step in a 2-step eams process that allows patients to be treated with dupixent in advance of formal regulatory approval. in april 2016, we and sanofi announced positive top-line data from the phase 3 liberty ad solo 1 and solo 2 studies. these studies met their primary endpoints, and treatment with dupixent as monotherapy significantly improved measures of overall disease severity, skin clearing, itching, quality of life, and mental health. a total of 1,379 adult patients with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis were enrolled in the identically-designed solo 1 and solo 2 trials. patients were enrolled if they were not adequately controlled with topical medications, or if topical treatment was not medically advisable. all patients were assessed via the 5-point investigator's global assessment (iga) scale, ranging from 0 (clear) to 4 (severe); entry criteria required a baseline score of 3 or 4. patients were also assessed using the eczema area and severity index (easi) and other measures. patients were randomized into one of three treatment groups: dupixent 300 mg subcutaneously once per week, dupixent 300 mg subcutaneously every two weeks, or placebo for 16 weeks following an initial dupixent loading dose of 600 mg subcutaneously, or placebo. results at 16 weeks included the following: for solo 1 and solo 2, respectively, 37% and 36% of patients who received dupixent 300 mg weekly, and 38% and 36% of patients who received dupixent 300 mg every two weeks, achieved clearing or near-clearing of skin lesions (iga 0 or 1), compared to 10% and 8.5% with placebo (p&lt;0.0001). this was the primary endpoint of the study in the united states. 10 table of contents for solo 1 and solo 2, respectively, the percent improvement in easi from baseline was 72% and 69% in patients who received the 300 mg weekly dose, and 72% and 67% for patients who received dupixent 300 mg every two weeks, compared to 38% and 31% for placebo (p&lt;0.0001). for solo 1 and solo 2, respectively, 52.5% and 48% of patients who received dupixent 300 mg weekly, and 51% and 44% of patients who received dupixent 300 mg every two weeks, achieved easi-75 compared to 15% and 12% with placebo (p&lt;0.0001). this was the key secondary endpoint in the united states and one of the primary endpoints in the eu. for the 16-week treatment period, the overall rate of aes (65%-73% dupixent and 65%-72% placebo) was comparable between the dupixent groups and the placebo groups. the proportion of patients who completed the treatment period was 88%-94% for dupixent and 80.5%-82% for placebo. the rate of serious aes was 1%-3% for dupixent and 5%-6% for placebo. serious and severe infections were also numerically higher in the placebo groups in both studies (0.5%-1% dupixent and 2%-3% placebo). aes that were noted to have a higher rate with dupixent treatment across both studies included injection site reactions (10%-20% dupixent and 7%-8% placebo) and conjunctivitis (7%-12% dupixent and 2% placebo); approximately 26% of patients in both studies reported a history of allergic conjunctivitis at study entry. no patient discontinued therapy due to injection site reactions and only one patient discontinued therapy due to conjunctivitis. more detailed results from solo 1 and solo 2 were presented at the european academy of dermatology and venereology (eadv) conference in october 2016. in the first quarter of 2016, the phase 3 liberty ad caf study of dupixent in severe atopic dermatitis was initiated. this placebo-controlled study will investigate two dose regimens of dupixent (300 mg weekly and 300 mg every two weeks) with concomitant topical corticosteroids in adult patients with severe atopic dermatitis who are not adequately controlled with, or are intolerant to or ineligible for, oral cyclosporine a therapy. the primary endpoint of this study will be the proportion of patients with a 75% or greater improvement from baseline in their easi score. in june 2016, we and sanofi announced positive data from the phase 3 liberty ad chronos study. this study met its primary and secondary endpoints, and dupixent with topical corticosteroids (tcs) significantly improved measures of overall disease severity at 16 and 52 weeks, when compared to placebo with tcs. the primary endpoint results at week 16 were the following: 39% of patients who received either dupixent 300 mg weekly with tcs or dupixent 300 mg every two weeks with tcs achieved clearing or near-clearing of skin lesions (iga 0 or 1), compared to 12% of patients receiving placebo with tcs (p&lt;0.0001). 64% of patients who received dupixent 300 mg weekly with tcs, and 69% of patients who received dupixent 300 mg every two weeks with tcs achieved easi-75, a 75% reduction on an index measuring eczema severity, compared to 23% of patients receiving placebo with tcs (p&lt;0.0001). the secondary endpoint 52-week results were the following: 40% of patients who received dupixent 300 mg weekly with tcs, and 36% of patients who received dupixent 300 mg every two weeks with tcs achieved clearing or near-clearing of skin lesions (iga 0 or 1), compared to 12.5% of patients receiving placebo with tcs (p&lt;0.0001). 64% of patients who received 300 mg weekly with tcs, and 65% of patients who received 300 mg every two weeks with tcs achieved easi-75, compared to 22% with placebo with tcs (p&lt;0.0001). patients were less likely to discontinue therapy in the dupixent with tcs groups compared to placebo with tcs group (15% in both dupixent groups; 33% placebo). the overall rate of aes in the liberty ad chronos study was comparable between the dupixent with tcs groups (83% for the weekly dose (qw) and 88% for the every two weeks (q2w) dosing group) and the placebo with tcs group (84%). the rate of serious aes was comparable between the dupixent with tcs groups (3% (qw) and 4% (q2w)) and placebo with tcs group (5%). serious and/or severe infections were numerically higher in the placebo with tcs group (1% in both dupixent groups and 2% placebo). adverse events that were noted to have a higher rate with dupixent included injection site reactions (20% (qw) and 16% (q2w) dupixent; 9% placebo) and conjunctivitis (19% (qw) and 13% (q2w) dupixent; 8% placebo); 22% of patients on placebo, and 23% (qw) and 28% (q2w) of patients on dupixent reported a history of allergic conjunctivitis at study entry. phase 2 study in pediatric patients. based on the results of a phase 2 pharmacokinetic and safety study in pediatric patients (6-17 years of age) with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis, two phase 3 pediatric studies (6-11 years of age and 12-17 years of age) are expected to be initiated in the first half of 2017. in october 2016, the fda granted breakthrough therapy designation for dupilumab for the treatment of moderate to severe (12 to less than 18 years of age) and severe (6 months to less than 12 years of age) atopic dermatitis in pediatric patients who are not adequately controlled with, or who are intolerant to, topical medication. 11 table of contents asthma phase 3 study . a phase 3 trial, liberty asthma quest, in adult and adolescent patients with uncontrolled persistent asthma was fully enrolled in the third quarter of 2016. liberty asthma quest is expected to serve as the second required pivotal efficacy study, since, based on discussions with the fda, the phase 2b study will also be considered a pivotal efficacy study. liberty asthma quest is a global, placebo-controlled phase 3 study that enrolled more than 1,900 patients with uncontrolled persistent asthma and is evaluating two doses of dupilumab, 200 mg and 300 mg, subcutaneously administered every other week. nasal polyps phase 3 study. a phase 3 study, liberty np sinus, in adult patients with bilateral nasal polyps on a background therapy with intranasal corticosteroids was initiated in the fourth quarter of 2016. eosinophilic esophagitis phase 2 study. a phase 2 trial of dupilumab in eosinophilic esophagitis was initiated in 2015 and is ongoing. eoe is a chronic allergic inflammatory disease that is considered a major cause of gastrointestinal illness. eosinophils are a type of white blood cell that, due to allergens, can accumulate in the esophagus, causing inflammation and tissue injuries that create difficulty swallowing. people with eosinophilic esophagitis may also have allergies, asthma, atopic dermatitis, or chronic respiratory disease. regn2222 (rsv-f antibody) for rsv overview respiratory syncytial virus, or rsv, is a virus that infects the lungs and breathing passages. it is the most common cause of bronchiolitis (inflammation of the small airways) and is the second most common cause of death, globally, in the first year of life. rsv results in a significant healthcare burden, as it is the leading cause of infant hospitalizations in the united states. in addition to hospitalizations, rsv frequently results in emergency department, urgent care, and physicians' office visits. it is estimated that about half of all children will have an rsv infection by their first birthday. regn2222 is a fully human monoclonal antibody to the rsv-f protein. regn2222 was generated using our velocimmune technology. clinical program a phase 3 study of regn2222 (nursery pre-term) was initiated in 2015 and is currently enrolling patients. in 2015, the fda granted fast track designation to regn2222 for the prevention of serious lower respiratory tract disease caused by rsv. fasinumab (regn475; ngf antibody) for pain due to osteoarthritis and chronic low back pain overview pain is a frequent reason for physician visits, a common reason for taking prescription medications, and a major cause of work disability and impaired quality of life. targeting ngf is a potential advance in pain management. ngf expression is elevated in many acute and chronic painful conditions and ngf blockade has demonstrated efficacy in various animal models of pain. fasinumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody to ngf, generated using our velocimmune technology. the fasinumab program is expected to consist of approximately 10,000 patients treated with fasinumab. 12 table of contents osteoarthritis phase 2/3 study. in the second quarter of 2015, we initiated a phase 2/3 clinical study (16-weeks) in patients with moderate-to-severe osteoarthritis pain of the hip or knee who have a history of inadequate pain relief or intolerance to current analgesic therapies. in may 2016, we announced positive top-line data from the study. at 16 weeks, patients treated with all four doses of fasinumab demonstrated a statistically significant improvement in pain relief, the primary endpoint of the study, as well as improvements in the secondary measure evaluating physical function. the u.s. study enrolled 421 adult patients with moderate-to-severe osteoarthritis of the hip or knee who had a history of inadequate pain relief or intolerance to acetaminophen, and at least one oral nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (nsaid) and an opioid. patients in the study were experiencing significant pain at baseline with an average pain score of 6.3 on a 10-point scale. patients were evaluated for pain, stiffness, and physical function using the western ontario and mcmaster universities osteoarthritis index (womac) in addition to other measures. patients were randomized to one of five treatment groups in a 1:1:1:1:1 fashion; fasinumab 1mg, 3mg, 6mg, 9mg, or placebo, all delivered subcutaneously every 4 weeks through week 12, with the primary efficacy measured at week 16. following week 16, patients were studied for an additional 20 weeks off treatment. on the primary endpoint, fasinumab-treated patients reported less pain at 16 weeks when compared to placebo on the 10-point womac subscale for pain (-3.03 to -3.65 fasinumab vs. -2.25 placebo; p=0.03 through p=0.0001). overall incidence of aes, including serious and severe events, was similar across the fasinumab groups and placebo. as expected with antibodies to ngf, there was an increase in certain neuro-musculoskeletal aes in the fasinumab treatment groups (17% combined fasinumab; 6% placebo) including arthralgia, paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, and peripheral edema. in october 2016, we and teva announced that at the 36-week analysis of the phase 2/3 clinical study in patients with moderate-to-severe osteoarthritis pain of the hip or knee, the incidence of adjudicated arthropathies was found to be potentially dose-dependent, with a higher rate of patients experiencing arthropathies in the higher dose groups (12% (9mg), 7% (6mg), 5% (3mg), 2% (1mg), and 1% (placebo)). in the ongoing fasinumab osteoarthritis pivotal phase 3 program (further described below), we and teva are planning to advance only the lower doses from the phase 2/3 study, subject to discussion with the fda and other health authorities. updated data from the osteoarthritis pain phase 2/3 study will be presented at upcoming medical congresses. phase 3 study. in the first quarter of 2016, the fda confirmed that we may proceed with studies of longer than sixteen-week duration. a phase 3 long-term safety study in patients with pain due to osteoarthritis of the knee or hip was initiated in the first quarter of 2016. chronic low back pain a phase 2b study in chronic low back pain was initiated in the first quarter of 2016. in october 2016, the fda placed the phase 2b study in chronic low back pain on clinical hold and requested an amendment of the study protocol; this was based on the fda's recommendation that patients with advanced osteoarthritis at baseline not receive higher doses of fasinumab. following this development, we completed an unplanned interim review of results and stopped dosing in the study. the unplanned analysis showed clear evidence of efficacy with improvement in pain scores in all fasinumab groups compared to placebo at the 8- and 12-week time points (nominal p&lt;0.01). preliminary safety results are generally consistent with what has been previously reported with the class. the phase 2b chronic low back pain study enrolled approximately 70% of the targeted 800 patients in four dose groups: placebo, 6mg subcutaneously monthly, 9mg subcutaneously monthly, and 9mg intravenously every two months. patients will continue to be followed for up to 36 weeks. we and teva plan to design pivotal phase 3 studies in chronic low back pain. the companies plan to submit a pivotal program plan for review with the fda and other health authorities. updated data from the chronic lower back pain phase 2b study will be presented at upcoming medical congresses. research programs our preclinical research programs include the areas of oncology/immuno-oncology, angiogenesis, ophthalmology, metabolic and related diseases, muscle diseases and disorders, inflammation and immune diseases, bone and cartilage, pain and neurobiology, cardiovascular diseases, and infectious diseases. in march 2016, the new england journal of medicine published a paper based on the work done at the regeneron genetics center showing that inactivating mutations of the angiopoeitin-like 4 (angptl-4) gene are associated with a significantly reduced risk of coronary artery disease in humans. angptl-3 and angptl-4 are related genes that both regulate lipoprotein lipase. in 2015, we and barda entered into an agreement to develop, test, and manufacture a monoclonal antibody therapy for the treatment of ebola virus infection. under the terms of the agreement, hhs will provide funding to support our preclinical development, antibody manufacturing, and for a phase 1 study in healthy volunteers, and has the option to provide additional funding for further manufacturing and development studies. in addition, in 2016, we and barda of the hhs entered into an 13 table of contents agreement whereby hhs will provide certain funding to manufacture and study two antibody therapies for the potential treatment of middle east respiratory syndrome (mers). research and development technologies many proteins that are either on the surface of or secreted by cells play important roles in biology and disease. one way that a cell communicates with other cells is by releasing specific signaling proteins, either locally or into the bloodstream. these proteins have distinct functions and are classified into different "families" of molecules, such as peptide hormones, growth factors, and cytokines. all of these secreted (or signaling) proteins travel to and are recognized by another set of proteins, called "receptors," which reside on the surface of responding cells. these secreted proteins impact many critical cellular and biological processes, causing diverse effects ranging from the regulation of growth of particular cell types to inflammation mediated by white blood cells. secreted proteins can at times be overactive and thus result in a variety of diseases. in these disease settings, blocking the action of specific secreted proteins can have clinical benefit. in other cases, proteins on the cell-surface can mediate the interaction between cells, such as the processes that give rise to inflammation and autoimmunity. our scientists have developed two different technologies to design protein therapeutics to block the action of specific cell surface or secreted proteins. the first technology, termed the "trap" technology, was used to generate eylea, zaltrap, and arcalyst. these novel "traps" are composed of fusions between two distinct receptor components and the constant region of an antibody molecule called the "fc region," resulting in high affinity product candidates. velocisuite is our second technology platform; it is used for discovering, developing, and producing fully human monoclonal antibodies that can address both secreted and cell-surface targets. velocisuite. velocisuite consists of velocimmune, velocigene, velocimouse , velocimab, and other related technologies . the velocimmune mouse platform is utilized to produce fully human monoclonal antibodies. velocimmune was generated by exploiting our velocigene technology (see below), in a process in which six megabases of mouse immune gene loci were replaced, or "humanized," with corresponding human immune gene loci. velocimmune mice can be used to generate efficiently fully human monoclonal antibodies to targets of therapeutic interest. velocimmune and our entire velocisuite offer the potential to increase the speed and efficiency through which human monoclonal antibody therapeutics may be discovered and validated, thereby improving the overall efficiency of our early stage drug development activities. we are utilizing the velocimmune technology to produce our next generation of drug candidates for preclinical and clinical development. our velocigene platform allows custom and precise manipulation of very large sequences of dna to produce highly customized alterations of a specified target gene, or genes, and accelerates the production of knock-out and transgenic expression models without using either positive/negative selection or isogenic dna. in producing knock-out models, a color or fluorescent marker may be substituted in place of the actual gene sequence, allowing for high-resolution visualization of precisely where the gene is active in the body during normal body functioning as well as in disease processes. for the optimization of preclinical development and pharmacology programs, velocigene offers the opportunity to humanize targets by replacing the mouse gene with the human homolog. thus, velocigene allows scientists to rapidly identify the physical and biological effects of deleting or over-expressing the target gene, as well as to characterize and test potential therapeutic molecules. our velocimouse technology platform allows for the direct and immediate generation of genetically altered mice from embryonic stem cells (es cells), thereby avoiding the lengthy process involved in generating and breeding knockout mice from chimeras. mice generated through this method are normal and healthy and exhibit a 100% germ-line transmission. furthermore, mice developed using our velocimouse technology are suitable for direct phenotyping or other studies. we have also developed our velocimab platform for the rapid screening of antibodies and rapid generation of expression cell lines for our traps and our velocimmune human monoclonal antibodies. we have utilized our velocisuite technologies to develop a class of potential drug candidates, known as bi-specific antibodies. in the area of immunotherapies in oncology, we are exploring the use of bi-specific antibodies that target tumor antigens and the cd3 receptor on t-cells to harness the oncolytic properties of t-cells. our first such bi-specific antibody, which entered into clinical development in 2014, targets cd20 and cd3. regeneron genetics center. in 2014, we launched a new human genetics initiative via a wholly owned subsidiary, regeneron genetics center llc (rgc). rgc leverages de-identified clinical, genomic, and molecular data from human volunteers to identify medically relevant associations in a blinded fashion designed to preserve patients' privacy. the objective of rgc is to expand the use of human genetics for discovering and validating genetic factors that cause or influence a range of diseases where there are major unmet medical needs, with the prospect of improving the drug discovery and development process. rgc is undertaking multiple approaches, including large population-based efforts as well as family- and founder-based approaches. rgc utilizes laboratory automation and innovative approaches to cloud computing to achieve high-quality throughput. central to the work of rgc is a collaboration with the geisinger health system of pennsylvania. geisinger collects samples from consented patient volunteers, while rgc performs sequencing and genotyping to generate de-identified genomic data. in 14 table of contents addition, rgc has expanded on its foundational population-based collaboration with geisinger with a growing number of other institutions worldwide. collaboration agreements collaborations with sanofi antibodies . since november 2007, we and sanofi have been parties to a global, strategic collaboration to discover, develop, and commercialize fully human monoclonal antibodies. the collaboration is governed by a discovery and preclinical development agreement (antibody discovery agreement) and a license and collaboration agreement (each as amended), collectively referred to as the antibody collaboration. pursuant to the antibody discovery agreement, as amended, sanofi is responsible for funding up to $130.0 million of our antibody discovery activities in each of 2016 and 2017 to identify and validate potential drug discovery targets and develop fully human monoclonal antibodies against these targets. we lead the design and conduct of research activities under the antibody discovery agreement, including target identification and validation, antibody development, research and preclinical activities through filing of an investigational new drug application (ind) or its equivalent, toxicology studies, and manufacture of preclinical and clinical supplies. sanofi has the right to extend antibody development and preclinical activities relating to selected programs for up to an additional three years after 2017. sanofi must identify any programs to be extended by june 30, 2017, and we and sanofi must then agree on a plan and budget for the extended activities. during the extended period, we will use commercially reasonable efforts to develop such antibodies and conduct preclinical activities through ind preparation. after 2017, funding from sanofi under the antibody discovery agreement will cease to continue, except with regard to the programs for which sanofi has exercised its extension right. for each drug candidate identified through discovery research under the antibody discovery agreement (including drug candidates developed during the extended period of up to an additional three years described above), sanofi has the option to license rights to the candidate under the license and collaboration agreement. if it elects to do so, sanofi will co-develop the drug candidate with us through product approval. development costs for the drug candidate are shared between the companies, with sanofi generally funding these costs as they are incurred by us, except that following receipt of the first positive phase 3 trial results for a co-developed drug candidate, subsequent phase 3 trial-related costs for that drug candidate are shared 80% by sanofi and 20% by us. we are generally responsible for reimbursing sanofi for half of the total development costs for all collaboration antibody products from our share of profits from commercialization of collaboration products to the extent they are sufficient for this purpose. we are obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to supply clinical requirements of each drug candidate under the collaboration until commercial supplies of that drug candidate are being manufactured. under our collaboration agreement, sanofi records product sales and cost of sales for commercialized products, and regeneron has the right to co-promote such products. we have exercised our option to co-promote praluent, sarilumab, and dupilumab in the united states. we have not exercised our option to co-promote any of these antibodies outside the united states; however, we retain the right to do so at a future date subject to the terms of the collaboration agreement. we and sanofi will equally share profits and losses from sales within the united states. we and sanofi share profits outside the united states on a sliding scale based on sales starting at 65% (sanofi)/35% (us) and ending at 55% (sanofi)/45% (us), and share losses outside the united states at 55% (sanofi)/45% (us). in addition to profit sharing, we are entitled to receive up to $250.0 million in sales milestone payments, with milestone payments commencing after aggregate annual sales outside the united states exceed $1.0 billion on a rolling 12-month basis. immuno-oncology. in july 2015, we and sanofi entered into a global strategic collaboration to discover, develop, and commercialize antibody-based cancer treatments in the field of immuno-oncology (the io collaboration). the io collaboration is governed by an immuno-oncology discovery and development agreement (io discovery agreement), and an immuno-oncology license and collaboration agreement (io license and collaboration agreement). in connection with the io discovery agreement, sanofi made a $265.0 million non-refundable up-front payment to us. pursuant to the io discovery agreement, we will spend up to $1,090.0 million (io discovery budget) to identify and validate potential immuno-oncology targets and develop therapeutic antibodies against such targets through clinical proof-of-concept. sanofi will reimburse us for up to $825.0 million (io discovery funding) of these costs, subject to certain annual limits (up to $200.0 million for 2017). the term of the io discovery agreement will continue through the later of five years from the effective date of the io collaboration or the date the io discovery budget is exhausted, subject to sanofi's option to extend it for up to an additional three years for the continued development (and funding) of selected ongoing programs. pursuant to the io discovery agreement, we will be primarily responsible for the design and conduct of all research activities, including target identification and validation, antibody development, preclinical activities, toxicology studies, manufacture of preclinical and clinical supplies, filing of ind applications, and clinical development through proof-of-concept. we will reimburse sanofi for half of the development costs they funded that are attributable to clinical development of antibody product candidates under the io discovery agreement from our share of future profits, if any, from commercialized io collaboration products to the extent they are sufficient for this purpose. with regard to product candidates for which proof-of-concept is established, sanofi will have the option to license rights to the product candidate pursuant to the io license and collaboration agreement (as further described below). 15 table of contents in connection with the io license and collaboration agreement, sanofi made a $375.0 million non-refundable up-front payment to us. if sanofi exercises its option to license rights to a product candidate thereunder, it will co-develop the drug candidate with us through product approval. principal control of development of each product candidate that enters development under the io license and collaboration agreement will alternate between us and sanofi on a candidate-by-candidate basis. sanofi will fund drug candidate development costs up front for the candidates for which it is the principal controlling party and we will reimburse half of the total development costs for all such candidates from our share of future io collaboration profits to the extent they are sufficient for this purpose. in addition, we and sanofi will share equally, on an ongoing basis, the development costs for the drug candidates for which we are the principal controlling party. the party having principal control over the development of a product candidate will also lead the commercialization activities for such product candidate in the united states. we are obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to supply clinical requirements of each drug candidate under the io license and collaboration agreement until commercial supplies of that io drug candidate are being manufactured. for all products commercialized under the io license and collaboration agreement, sanofi will lead commercialization activities outside of the united states. each party will have the right to co-promote licensed products in countries where it is not the lead commercialization party. the parties will share equally in profits and losses in connection with the commercialization of collaboration products. under the terms of the io license and collaboration agreement, the parties will also co-develop our antibody product candidate targeting pd-1 (regn2810). we have principal control over the development of regn2810, and the parties share equally, on an ongoing basis, development expenses for regn2810 up to a total of $650.0 million. we will lead commercialization activities in the united states, while sanofi will lead commercialization activities outside of the united states and the parties will equally share profits from worldwide sales. we will be entitled to a milestone payment of $375.0 million in the event that sales of all licensed products targeting pd-1 (including regn2810), together with sales of any other products licensed under the io license and collaboration agreement and sold for use in combination with a licensed product targeting pd-1, equal or exceed $2.0 billion in any consecutive twelve-month period. collaborations with bayer eylea outside the united states . since october 2006, we and bayer have been parties to a license and collaboration agreement for the global development and commercialization outside the united states of eylea. under the agreement, we and bayer collaborate on, and share the costs of, the development of eylea. bayer markets eylea outside the united states, where, for countries other than japan, the companies share equally in profits and losses from sales of eylea. in japan, we are entitled to receive a tiered percentage of between 33.5% and 40.0% of eylea net sales. commencing with the first commercial sale of eylea in a major market country outside the united states, we became obligated to reimburse bayer for 50% of the development costs that it has incurred under the agreement from our share of the collaboration profits (including payments to us based on sales in japan). the reimbursement payment in any quarter will equal 5% of the then outstanding repayment obligation, but never more than our share of the collaboration profits in the quarter unless we elect to reimburse bayer at a faster rate. as a result, we expect that a portion of our share of eylea profits outside the united states will be used to reimburse bayer for this repayment obligation. within the united states, we retain exclusive commercialization rights to eylea and are entitled to all profits from any such sales. ang2 antibody outside the united states. in march 2016, we entered into an agreement with bayer governing the joint development and commercialization outside the united states of nesvacumab, an antibody product candidate to ang2, including in combination with aflibercept, for the treatment of ocular diseases or disorders. nesvacumab/aflibercept, a combination product candidate comprised of an antibody to ang2 co-formulated with aflibercept, is being developed under the agreement. in connection with the agreement, bayer made a $50.0 million non-refundable up-front payment to us and is obligated to pay 25% of global development costs and 50% of development costs exclusively for the territory outside the united states. we are also entitled to receive up to an aggregate of $80.0 million in development milestone payments from bayer. bayer will share profits and losses from sales outside the united states equally with us, and is responsible for certain royalties payable to sanofi on sales of the product outside of the united states. within the united states, we have exclusive commercialization rights and will retain all of the profits from sales. 16 table of contents collaboration with mitsubishi tanabe pharma fasinumab asia. in september 2015, we entered into a collaboration agreement with mitsubishi tanabe pharma corporation (mtpc) providing mtpc with development and commercial rights to fasinumab in japan, south korea, taiwan, indonesia, thailand, the philippines, malaysia, singapore, vietnam, myanmar, and sri lanka (the mtpc territories). in connection with the agreement, mtpc made a $10.0 million non-refundable up-front payment in 2015, and in the first quarter of 2016, mtpc made additional payments of $45.0 million and $15.0 million to us. we are also entitled to receive up to an aggregate of $155.0 million in development milestone and other contingent payments. under the agreement, we are obligated to manufacture and supply mtpc with clinical and commercial supplies of fasinumab. if fasinumab is commercialized in the mtpc territories, we will supply the product to mtpc at a tiered purchase price, which ranges from 30% to 50% of net sales of the product (subject to adjustment in certain circumstances), and are eligible for additional payments up to an aggregate of $100.0 million upon the achievement of specified annual net sales amounts starting at $200.0 million. collaboration with teva fasinumab . in september 2016, we entered into a collaboration agreement with teva to develop and commercialize fasinumab globally, excluding certain asian countries that are subject to our collaboration agreement with mtpc (as described above). in connection with the agreement, teva made a $250.0 million non-refundable up-front payment in september 2016. we will lead global development activities, and the parties will share equally, on an ongoing basis, development costs under a global development plan. in addition, we are entitled to receive up to an aggregate of $460.0 million in development milestones and up to an aggregate of $1,890.0 million in contingent payments upon achievement of specified annual net sales amounts. we are responsible for the manufacture and supply of fasinumab globally. within the united states, we will lead commercialization activities, and the parties will share equally in any profits or losses in connection with commercialization of fasinumab. in the territory outside of the united states, teva will lead commercialization activities and we will supply product to teva at a tiered purchase price, which is calculated as a percentage of net sales of the product (subject to adjustment in certain circumstances). collaboration with intellia therapeutics in april 2016, we entered into a license and collaboration agreement with intellia therapeutics, inc., to advance crispr/cas gene-editing technology for in vivo therapeutic development. we will collaborate with intellia to conduct research for the discovery, development, and commercialization of new therapies (product collaboration), in addition to the research and technology development of the crispr/cas platform (technology collaboration). in connection with the execution of the agreement, we made a $75.0 million up-front payment in april 2016. we are responsible for costs of developing and commercializing crispr/cas products under the product collaboration agreement and are also obligated to pay potential development and sales milestones, and royalties on any future sales of such products resulting from the development and commercialization of crispr/cas products. in addition, under the technology collaboration agreement, we are responsible for funding certain research and technology development costs. under the terms of the product collaboration agreement, the parties agreed to a target selection process, whereby we may obtain exclusive rights in up to 10 targets to be chosen by us during the collaboration term, subject to various adjustments and limitations set forth in the agreement. of these 10 total targets, we may select up to five non-liver targets, while the remaining targets will be focused in the liver. additionally, we may replace a limited number of targets with substitute targets upon the payment of a replacement fee, in which case rights to the replaced target(s) will revert to intellia. the technology collaboration term and the period for selecting targets for inclusion under the product collaboration both end in 2022, provided that we may make a payment to extend the term for an additional two-year period. the product collaboration agreement will continue until the date when no royalty or other payment obligations are due, unless earlier terminated in accordance with the terms of the agreement. certain targets that either we or intellia select pursuant to the target selection process may be subject to a co-development and co-commercialization arrangement at our option or intellia's option, as applicable. transthyretin amyloidosis (attr), the first target selected by us, will be subject to the co-development and co-commercialization arrangement between the parties. in may 2016, intellia completed an initial public offering (ipo) of its common stock and thereby triggered our obligation to purchase up to $50.0 million of intellia common stock in a concurrent private placement. as part of the concurrent private placement, we purchased from intellia at the closing of the ipo shares of intellia common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $50.0 million. 17 table of contents collaboration with adicet bio in july 2016, we entered into a license and collaboration agreement with adicet bio, inc., a privately held company, to develop next-generation engineered immune-cell therapeutics with fully human chimeric antigen receptors (cars) and t-cell receptors (tcrs) directed to disease-specific cell surface antigens in order to enable the precise engagement and killing of tumor cells. in connection with the execution of the agreement, we made a $25.0 million up-front payment to adicet, and are obligated to provide adicet with research funding over the course of a five-year research term. under the terms of the agreement, the parties will collaborate to identify and validate targets and work together to develop a pipeline of engineered immune-cell therapeutics for selected targets. we have the option to obtain development and commercial rights for a certain number of the product candidates developed by the parties, subject to an option payment for each product candidate. if we exercise our option on a given product candidate, adicet then will have an option to participate in the development and commercialization for such product. if adicet doesn't exercise its option, adicet will be entitled to royalties on any future sales of such products by us. in addition to developing cars and tcrs for use in novel immune-cell therapies as part of the collaboration, we will have the right to use these cars and tcrs in our other antibody programs outside of the collaboration. we will also be entitled to royalties on any future sales of products developed and commercialized by adicet under the agreement for all products for which we do not have development and commercial rights. manufacturing we currently manufacture bulk drug materials at our manufacturing facilities in rensselaer, new york, which consists of approximately 564,000 square feet of owned research, manufacturing, office, and warehouse space. we currently have approximately 97,000 liters of cell culture capacity at these facilities. in 2014, we acquired a 400,000 square foot facility in limerick, ireland. we are renovating this facility to accommodate and support our growth, primarily in connection with expanding our manufacturing capacity to support our global supply chain. we currently are in the process of validating the facility, as required by regulatory authorities, for the manufacture of bulk drug materials . certain raw materials or other products necessary for the manufacture and formulation of our products and product candidates are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. in addition, we rely on certain third parties to perform packaging, filling, finishing, labeling, distribution, laboratory testing, and other services related to the manufacture of our products and product candidates, and to supply various raw materials and other products. see part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to manufacturing and supply" for further information. among the conditions for regulatory marketing approval of a medicine is the requirement that the prospective manufacturer's quality control and manufacturing procedures conform to the good manufacturing practice (gmp) regulations of the health authority. in complying with standards set forth in these regulations, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money, and effort in the areas of production and quality control to ensure full technical compliance. manufacturing establishments, both foreign and domestic, are also subject to inspections by or under the authority of the fda and by other national, federal, state, and local agencies. we are approved by the fda and other regulatory agencies to manufacture our marketed products at our rensselaer facilities. sales and marketing we have a new products marketing and planning group, a market research group, and a market access group to evaluate commercial opportunities for our targets and drug candidates, assess the competitive environment, and analyze the commercial potential of our product portfolio, and prepare for market launch of new products. these groups are fully functional to support our product and product candidates that we are independently developing and/or commercializing, and also work closely with our collaborators for co-developed products to develop marketing plans and forecasts and to develop and execute pre-launch market development programs. we also have a full-service commercialization group to handle various aspects of our commercial programs. the group includes experienced professionals in the fields of marketing, communications, professional education, patient education and advocacy, reimbursement and market access, trade and distribution, commercial operations, commercial analytics, market research, and forecasting. moreover, for eylea and praluent, we have hired, trained, and deployed a field-based organization including regional directors, medical specialists, and reimbursement managers, each typically with a number of years of experience in the biopharmaceutical industry in a variety of therapeutic areas including oncology, ophthalmology, immunology, and inflammation. we have over 450 field-based employees in the united states, including personnel that have been recently hired in preparation for the potential approval of sarilumab and dupixent. 18 table of contents in connection with the sales and marketing of arcalyst for caps, we have a marketing, trade, reimbursement, and distribution group to provide case management and reimbursement services to patients with caps and their treating physicians. customers we sell eylea in the united states to several distributors and specialty pharmacies. we sell arcalyst in the united states to two specialty pharmacies. under these distribution models, the distributors and specialty pharmacies generally take physical delivery of product. for eylea, the distributors and specialty pharmacies generally sell the product directly to healthcare providers, whereas for arcalyst, the specialty pharmacies sell the product directly to patients. we had sales to three customers (besse medical, a subsidiary of amerisourcebergen corporation; mckesson corporation; and curascript sd specialty distribution, a subsidiary of express scripts) that each accounted for more than 10% of total gross product revenue for the year ended december 31, 2016. on a combined basis, our product sales to these customers accounted for approximately 99% of our gross product revenue for the year ended december 31, 2016. we are also a party to collaboration agreements with bayer and sanofi, whereby our collaborator is responsible for recording product sales of eylea outside the united states and global sales of praluent, respectively. competition we face substantial competition from pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and chemical companies. our competitors include genentech (a member of the roche group), roche, novartis ag, pfizer inc., allergan, inc., eli lilly and company, abbvie inc., merck &amp; co., inc., amgen inc., astrazeneca plc, bristol-myers squibb company, johnson &amp; johnson, glaxosmithkline plc, and others. many of our competitors have substantially greater research, preclinical, and clinical product development, manufacturing capabilities, and financial, marketing, and human resources than we do. competition from smaller competitors may also be or become more significant if those competitors acquire or discover patentable inventions, form collaborative arrangements, or merge with large pharmaceutical companies. even if we are able to commercialize additional product candidates, one or more of our competitors may have brought a competitive product to market earlier than us or may have obtained or obtain patent protection that dominates or adversely affects our activities or products. our ability to compete depends, to a great extent, on how fast we can develop safe and effective product candidates, complete clinical testing and approval processes, and supply commercial quantities of the product to the market. competition among product candidates approved for sale is based on efficacy, safety, reliability, availability, price, patent position, and other factors. 19 table of contents eylea. the following table provides an overview of the competitive landscape for eylea: competitor product/product candidate commercial or development status competitor indication territory lucentis (ranibizumab) approved novartis/genentech wet amd, dme, macular edema following rvo (including crvo and brvo), diabetic retinopathy in patients with dme, and mcnv worldwide avastin (bevacizumab) (off-label) used to treat wet amd, dme, and macular edema following rvo roche/genentech wet amd, dme, and macular edema following rvo worldwide ozurdex (dexamethasone intravitreal implant) approved allergan dme, rvo worldwide iluvien (fluocinolone acetonide intravitreal implant) approved alimera sciences dme united states, eu conbercept approved in china for wet amd in development for other eye indications chengdu kanghong pharmaceutical group wet amd china brolucizumab (rth258), a single chain antibody fragment directed against vegf-a in development (non-inferiority phase 3 trial initiated in 2014 comparing rth258 and eylea) novartis wet amd abicipar pegol (anti-vegf-a-darpin ) in development (non-inferiority phase 3 trial initiated in 2015 comparing dosing regimens of abicipar pegol and lucentis) allergan wet amd and related conditions bi-specific antibody rg7716 in development (phase 2) roche/genentech wet amd lucentis port delivery system in development (phase 2) roche/genentech wet amd and related conditions pf582, a biosimilar to lucentis in development (phase 1/2) pfenex inc. wet amd and related conditions fyb201, a biosimilar to lucentis in development (phase 3) formycon ag (in collaboration with bioeq gmbh) wet amd and related conditions the table above is not exhaustive. for additional information regarding the substantial competition eylea faces, see also part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to commercialization of eylea - the commercial success of eylea is subject to strong competition " and part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to commercialization of products - our marketed products are subject to significant competition, and our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if any are approved for marketing, may face significant competition. " 20 table of contents praluent. the following table provides an overview of the competitive landscape for praluent: competitor product/product candidate commercial or development status competitor indication/target territory repatha (evolocumab) approved amgen pcsk9 inhibitor antibody; adjunct to diet and (i) maximally tolerated statin therapy for the treatment of adults with hefh or clinical atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, who require additional lowering of ldl-c or (ii) other ldl-lowering therapies in patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia who require additional lowering of ldl-c united states, canada, eu, japan ly3015014 in development (phase 2) eli lilly antibody against pcsk9 inclisiran (aln-pcssc) in development (phase 2) alnylam pharmaceuticals, inc. (in collaboration with the medicines company) rnai molecule against pcsk9 (injectable, small molecule) anacetrapib in development (phase 3) merck cetp-inhibitor (oral, small molecule) etc-1002 (bempedoic acid) in development (phase 3) esperion therapeutics, inc. acl-inhibitor (oral, small molecule) gemcabene in development (phase 2) gemphire therapeutics inc. cholesterol synthesis inhibitor (oral, small molecule) amg-899 (ta-8995) in development (phase 2) amgen cetp inhibitor (oral, small molecule) medi4166 in development (phase 1) astrazeneca anti-pcsk9 antibody fused to a glp-1 peptide (injectable, biologic) the table above is not exhaustive. for additional information regarding the substantial competition praluent faces, see also part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to commercialization of praluent - the commercial success of praluent is subject to strong competition ." 21 table of contents monoclonal antibodies in development. our clinical candidates in development are all fully human monoclonal antibodies which were generated using our velocimmune technology. our antibody generation technologies and clinical candidates face competition from many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies using various technologies. numerous other companies are developing therapeutic antibody products. companies such as pfizer, johnson &amp; johnson, astrazeneca, amgen, biogen inc., novartis, roche/genentech, bristol-myers squibb, abbvie, and glaxosmithkline have generated therapeutic products that are currently in development or on the market that are derived from recombinant dna that comprise human antibody sequences. astellas has licensed our velocimmune technology as part of their internal antibody development programs. the following table provides an overview of the competitive landscape for our antibody programs that are in late-stage clinical development: 22 table of contents regeneron antibody program competitor competitor product/product candidate commercial or development status target sarilumab (phase 3) target: il-6r roche actemra (tocilizumab) approved antibody against il-6r for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis johnson &amp; johnson (in collaboration with glaxosmithkline) sirukumab in development (phase 3) antibody against il-6 alder biopharmaceuticals, inc. (in collaboration with vitaeris inc.) clazakizumab in development (phase 2) antibody against il-6 ablynx alx-0061 in development (phase 2) antibody against il-6r r-pharm olokizumab in development (phase 2) antibody against il-6 roche sa 237 in development (phase 1/phase 3) antibody against il-6r bird rock bio, inc. gerilimzumab in development (phase 2) antibody against il-6 dupilumab (phase 2/phase 3) target: il-4r glaxosmithkline nucala (mepolizumab) approved antibody against il-5 teva cinqair (reslizumab) approved antibody against il-5 roche lebrikizumab in development (phase 3) antibody against il-13 astrazeneca benralizumab in development (phase 3) antibody against il-5r astrazeneca tralokinumab in development (phase 3) antibody against il-13 novartis qbx258 in development (phase 2) fixed dose combination of antibodies against il-4 and il-13 galderma s.a. nemolizumab in development (phase 2) antibody against il-31r amgen (in collaboration with astrazeneca) amg-157 in development (phase 2) antibody against tslp astrazeneca medi9314 in development (phase 1) antibody against il-4r fasinumab (phase 2b/ phase 3) target: ngf pfizer/eli lilly tanezumab in development (phase 3) antibody against ngf regn2222 (phase 3) target: rsv-f protein astrazeneca synagis (palivizumab) approved antibody against rsv-f protein astrazeneca (in collaboration with aimm therapeutics) medi8897 in development (phase 2b) antibody against rsv-f protein 23 table of contents the table above is not exhaustive and is focused on antibody competitors. we are also aware of several companies developing or marketing small molecules that may compete with our antibody product candidates in various indications, if such product candidates obtain regulatory approval in those indications. for sarilumab, oral, small-molecule jak inhibitors such as pfizer's xeljanz (tofacitinib citrate) and eli lilly's baricitinib may pose a competitive threat in the rheumatoid arthritis indication if sarilumab is approved in such indication. for dupilumab, pfizer's eucrisa (crisaborole) may be a competitor in the atopic dermatitis indication if dupilumab is approved in such indication. for additional information regarding our antibody programs and the substantial competition they face, see part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to commercialization of products - our marketed products are subject to significant competition, and our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if any are approved for marketing, may face significant competition ." other areas. many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are attempting to discover new therapeutics for indications in which we invest substantial time and resources. in these and related areas, intellectual property rights have been sought and certain rights have been granted to competitors and potential competitors of ours, and we may be at a substantial competitive disadvantage in such areas as a result of, among other things, our lack of experience, trained personnel, and expertise. a number of corporate and academic competitors are involved in the discovery and development of novel therapeutics that are the focus of other research or development programs we are now conducting. some of these competitors are currently conducting advanced preclinical and clinical research programs in these areas. these and other competitors may have established substantial intellectual property and other competitive advantages. if any of these or other competitors announces a successful clinical study involving a product that may be competitive with one of our product candidates or the grant of marketing approval by a regulatory agency for a competitive product, such developments may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, cash flows, or future prospects. we also compete with academic institutions, governmental agencies, and other public or private research organizations, which conduct research, seek patent protection, and establish collaborative arrangements for the development and marketing of products that would provide royalties or other consideration for use of their technology. these institutions are becoming more active in seeking patent protection and licensing arrangements to collect royalties or other consideration for use of the technology they have developed. products developed in this manner may compete directly with products we develop. we also compete with others in acquiring technology from these institutions, agencies, and organizations. patents, trademarks, and trade secrets our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain patents, maintain trade secret protection, and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties (see part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to intellectual property and market exclusivity - we may be restricted in our development, manufacturing, and/or commercialization activities by patents or other proprietary rights of others, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed such patents or rights "; and part i, item 3. "legal proceedings"). our policy is to file patent applications to protect technology, inventions, and improvements that we consider important to our business and operations. we hold an ownership interest in a number of issued patents in the united states and foreign countries with respect to our products and technologies. in addition, we hold an ownership interest in hundreds of patent applications in the united states and foreign countries. our patent portfolio includes granted patents and pending patent applications covering our velocisuite technologies, including our velocimmune mouse platform which produces fully human monoclonal antibodies. our issued patents covering these technologies generally expire between 2020 and 2030. however, we continue to file patent applications directed to improvements to these technology platforms. our patent portfolio also includes issued patents and pending applications relating to commercialized products and our product candidates in clinical development. these patents cover the proteins and dna encoding the proteins, manufacturing patents, method of use patents, and pharmaceutical compositions, as well as various methods of using the products. the following table describes our u.s. patents and european patents (ep) that we currently consider of primary importance to our marketed products, including the territory, patent number, general subject matter class, and expected expiration dates. the noted expiration dates include any patent term adjustments. certain of these patents may also be entitled to term extensions. we continue to pursue additional patents and patent term extensions in the united states and other jurisdictions covering various aspects of our products that may, if issued, extend exclusivity beyond the expiration of the patents listed in the table below. one or more patents with the same or earlier expiry date may fall under the same "general subject matter class" for certain products and are not separately listed. 24 table of contents product molecule territory patent no. general subject matter class expiration eylea aflibercept us 7,070,959 composition of matter june 16, 2023 * us 8,092,803 formulation june 21, 2027 us 9,254,338 methods of treatment may 22, 2032 ep 1183353 composition of matter may 23, 2025 ** ep 2364691 formulation july 14, 2027 ep 1544299 methods of treatment may 23, 2020 praluent *** alirocumab us 8,062,640 composition of matter december 15, 2029 us 8,795,669 formulation july 27, 2032 us 8,357,371 methods of treatment december 21, 2029 * a patent term extension has been granted by the u.s. patent and trademark office, extending the original patent term (may 23, 2020), insofar as it covers eylea, to june 16, 2023. ** supplementary protection certificates have been granted in 14 european countries, extending the original patent term (may 23, 2020) in those countries to may 23, 2025, and are pending in nine additional european countries. *** see part i, item 3. "legal proceedings" for information regarding the patent infringement proceedings relating to praluent, which may impact praluent's commercial availability in the united states and other jurisdictions. in addition, in the united states and certain other countries, our competitive position may be enhanced due to the availability of market exclusivity under relevant law (for additional information regarding market exclusivity, see part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to intellectual property and market exclusivity - loss or limitation of patent rights, and new regulatory pathways for biosimilar competition, could reduce the duration of market exclusivity for our products "). the effect of expiration of a patent relating to a particular product also depends upon other factors, such as the nature of the market and the position of the product in it, the growth of the market, the complexities and economics of the process for manufacture of the active ingredient of the product, and the requirements of new drug provisions of the federal food, drug and cosmetic act or similar laws and regulations in other countries. we also are the nonexclusive licensee of a number of additional patents and patent applications. in 2011, we and genentech entered into a non-exclusive license and partial settlement agreement relating to ophthalmic sales of eylea in the united states. pursuant to this agreement, we received a non-exclusive license to certain patents relating to vegf receptor proteins, known as the davis-smyth patents, and other technology patents. in 2013, we entered into an amended and restated non-exclusive license and settlement agreement with genentech; under the amended agreement, we received a worldwide non-exclusive license to the davis-smyth patents, and certain other patents, owned or co-owned by genentech for the prevention or treatment of human eye diseases and eye disorders through administration of eylea to the eye. also in 2013, we entered into a non-exclusive license and settlement agreement with genentech and sanofi under which we and sanofi received a worldwide non-exclusive license to the davis-smyth patents, and certain other patents, in all indications for human use other than the prevention or treatment of eye diseases and eye disorders through administration to the eye. our obligation to pay royalties to genentech pursuant to these agreements terminated on may 7, 2016, when the licenses granted to us thereunder became fully paid up and royalty free for the duration of the remaining term of the underlying patents. patent law relating to the patentability and scope of claims in the biotechnology field is evolving and our patent rights are subject to this additional uncertainty. the degree of patent protection that will be afforded to our products in the united states and other important commercial markets is uncertain and is dependent upon the scope of protection decided upon by the patent offices, courts, and governments in these countries. there is no certainty that our existing patents or others, if obtained, will provide us protection from competition or provide commercial benefit. others may independently develop similar products or processes to those developed by us, duplicate any of our products or processes or, if patents are issued to us, design around any products and processes covered by our patents. we expect to continue, when appropriate, to file product and process applications with respect to our inventions. however, we may not file any such applications or, if filed, the patents may not be issued. patents issued to or licensed by us may be infringed by the products or processes of others. defense and enforcement of our intellectual property rights is expensive and time consuming, even if the outcome is favorable to us. it is possible that patents issued or licensed to us will be successfully challenged, that a court may find that we are infringing validly issued patents of third parties, or that we may have to alter or discontinue the development of our products or pay licensing fees to take into account patent rights of third parties (see part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to intellectual property 25 table of contents and market exclusivity - we may be restricted in our development, manufacturing, and/or commercialization activities by patents or other proprietary rights of others, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed such patents or rights "; and part i, item 3. "legal proceedings"). government regulation regulation by government authorities in the united states and foreign countries is a significant factor in the research, development, manufacture, and marketing of our products and our product candidates (see part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to commercialization of eylea - we and bayer are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight with respect to eylea. if we or bayer fail to maintain regulatory compliance for eylea, eylea marketing approval may be withdrawn, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition "; "risks related to commercialization of praluent - we and sanofi are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight with respect to praluent. if we or sanofi fail to maintain regulatory compliance for praluent, praluent marketing approval may be withdrawn, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition "; and "risks related to maintaining approval of our marketed products and the development and obtaining approval of our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products - if we do not maintain regulatory approval for our marketed products, and obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, we will not be able to market or sell them, which would materially and negatively impact our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition." ). all of our product candidates will require regulatory approval before they can be commercialized. in particular, human therapeutic products are subject to rigorous preclinical and clinical trials and other pre-market approval requirements by the fda and foreign authorities. many aspects of the structure and substance of the fda and foreign pharmaceutical regulatory practices have been reformed during recent years, and continued reform is under consideration in a number of jurisdictions. the ultimate outcome and impact of such reforms and potential reforms cannot be predicted. the activities required before a product candidate may be marketed in the united states begin with preclinical tests. preclinical tests include laboratory evaluations and animal studies to assess the potential safety and efficacy of the product candidate and its formulations. the results of these studies must be submitted to the fda as part of an ind, which must be reviewed by the fda before proposed clinical testing can begin. typically, clinical testing involves a three-phase process. in phase 1, trials are conducted with a small number of subjects to determine the early safety profile of the product candidate. in phase 2, clinical trials are conducted with subjects afflicted with a specific disease or disorder to provide enough data to evaluate the preliminary safety, tolerability, and efficacy of different potential doses of the product candidate. in phase 3, large-scale clinical trials are conducted with patients afflicted with the specific disease or disorder in order to provide enough data to understand the efficacy and safety profile of the product candidate, as required by the fda. the results of the preclinical and clinical testing of a biologic product candidate are then submitted to the fda in the form of a bla for evaluation to determine whether the product candidate may be approved for commercial sale. in responding to a bla, the fda may grant marketing approval, request additional information, or deny the application. before approving a new drug or biologic product, the fda also requires that the facilities at which the product will be manufactured or advanced through the supply chain be in compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cgmp, requirements and regulations governing the manufacture, shipment, and storage of the product. any approval required by the fda for any of our product candidates may not be obtained on a timely basis, or at all. the designation of a clinical trial as being of a particular phase is not necessarily indicative that such a trial will be sufficient to satisfy the parameters of a particular phase, and a clinical trial may contain elements of more than one phase notwithstanding the designation of the trial as being of a particular phase. the results of preclinical studies or early stage clinical trials may not predict long-term safety or efficacy of our compounds when they are tested or used more broadly in humans. approval of a product candidate by comparable regulatory authorities in foreign countries is generally required prior to commencement of marketing of the product in those countries. the approval procedure varies among countries and may involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain such approval may differ from that required for fda approval. various federal, state, and foreign statutes and regulations also govern or influence the research, manufacture, safety, labeling, storage, record keeping, marketing, transport, and other aspects of pharmaceutical product candidates. the lengthy process of seeking these approvals and the compliance with applicable statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial resources. any failure by us or our collaborators or licensees to obtain, or any delay in obtaining, regulatory approvals could adversely affect the manufacturing or marketing of our products and our ability to receive product or royalty revenue. in addition to the foregoing, our present and future business will be subject to regulation under the united states atomic energy act, the clean air act, the clean water act, the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act, the national environmental policy act, the toxic substances control act, the resource conservation and recovery act, national restrictions, and other current and potential future local, state, federal, and foreign regulations. 26 table of contents business segments we manage our business as one segment which includes all activities related to the discovery, development, and commercialization of medicines for the treatment of serious medical conditions. for financial information related to our one segment, see part ii, item 6. "selected financial data" and our consolidated financial statements and related notes. employees as of december 31, 2016, we had approximately 5,400 full-time employees, of whom approximately 700 held a ph.d. and/or m.d., or pharmd degree. we believe that we have been successful in attracting skilled and experienced personnel in a highly competitive environment; however, competition for these personnel is intense. none of our personnel are covered by collective bargaining agreements and our management considers its relations with our employees to be good. corporate information we were incorporated in the state of new york in 1988 and publicly listed in 1991. our principal executive offices are located at 777 old saw mill river road, tarrytown, new york 10591, and our telephone number at that address is (914) 847-7000. we make available free of charge on or through our internet website ( http://www.regeneron.com ) our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the securities and exchange commission (sec). investors and other interested parties should note that we use our media and investor relations website ( http://newsroom.regeneron.com ) and our social media channels to publish important information about regeneron, including information that may be deemed material to investors. we encourage investors and other interested parties to review the information we may publish through our media and investor relations website and the social media channels listed on our media and investor relations website, in addition to our sec filings, press releases, conference calls, and webcasts. item 1a. risk factors we operate in an environment that involves a number of significant risks and uncertainties. we caution you to read the following risk factors, which have affected, and/or in the future could affect, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. the risks described below include forward-looking statements, and actual events and our actual results may differ materially from these forward-looking statements. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. furthermore, additional risks and uncertainties are described under other captions in this report and should also be considered by our investors. risks related to commercialization of eylea we are substantially dependent on the success of eylea. if we or bayer are unable to continue to successfully commercialize eylea, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition will be materially harmed. eylea net sales represent a substantial portion of our revenues and this concentration of our net sales in a single product makes us substantially dependent on that product. for the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015 , eylea net sales in the united states represented 68% and 65% of our total revenues, respectively. if we were to experience difficulty with the commercialization of eylea in the united states, if bayer were to experience any difficulty with the commercialization of eylea outside the united states, or if we and bayer are unable to maintain current marketing approvals of eylea, we may experience a reduction in revenue and may not be able to sustain profitability, and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be materially harmed. we expect that the continued commercial success of eylea will depend on many factors, including the following: effectiveness of the commercial strategy in and outside the united states for the marketing of eylea, including pricing strategy and the continued effectiveness of efforts to obtain, and the timing of obtaining, adequate third-party reimbursements; maintaining and successfully monitoring commercial manufacturing arrangements for eylea with third parties who perform fill/finish or other steps in the manufacture of eylea to ensure that they meet our standards and those of regulatory authorities, including the fda, which extensively regulate and monitor pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities; our ability to meet the demand for commercial supplies of eylea; our ability to differentiate eylea from lucentis and other competitive products, and the willingness of retinal specialists and patients to switch from lucentis or off-label use of repackaged avastin to eylea or to start treatment with eylea; 27 table of contents the ability of patients, retinal specialists, and other providers to obtain and maintain sufficient coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid in the united states and other government and private payers in the united states and foreign jurisdictions; our ability to maintain sales of eylea in the face of competitive products, including those currently in clinical development; the effect of existing and new health care laws and regulations currently being considered or implemented in the united states, including reporting and disclosure requirements of such laws and regulations and the potential impact of such requirements on physician prescription practices; and risks associated with intellectual property of other parties and pending or future litigation relating thereto, as discussed under "risks related to intellectual property and market exclusivity" below. more detailed information about the risks related to the commercialization of eylea is provided in the risk factors below. we and bayer are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight with respect to eylea. if we or bayer fail to maintain regulatory compliance for eylea, eylea marketing approval may be withdrawn, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. we and bayer are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight with respect to eylea for its currently approved indications in the united states, eu, and other countries where the product is approved. if we or bayer fail to maintain regulatory compliance for eylea for its currently approved indications (including for any of the reasons discussed below under "risks related to maintaining approval of our marketed products and the development and obtaining approval of our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products - obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval for drug products is costly, time-consuming, and highly uncertain "), eylea marketing approval may be withdrawn, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. failure to comply may also subject us to sanctions, product recalls, or withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications. see also "risks related to manufacturing and supply - if we fail to meet the stringent requirements of governmental regulation in the manufacture of drug products or product candidates, we could incur substantial remedial costs, delays in the development or approval of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products and/or in their commercial launch if they obtain regulatory approval, and a reduction in sales " below. serious complications or side effects in connection with the use of eylea could materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. serious complications or serious, unexpected side effects in connection with the use of eylea could materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. for additional information about some of these risks, see "risks related to maintaining approval of our marketed products and the development and obtaining approval of our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products - serious complications or side effects in connection with the use of our products and in clinical trials for our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products could cause our regulatory approvals to be revoked or limited or lead to delay or discontinuation of development of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, which could severely harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition " below. 28 table of contents sales of eylea are dependent on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payers, and changes to such reimbursement may materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. our sales in the united states of eylea are dependent, in large part, on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payers, including private payer healthcare and insurance programs, health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit management companies, and government programs such as medicare and medicaid. sales of eylea in other countries are dependent, in large part, on similar programs in those countries. in the united states, there is an increased focus from the federal government and others on analyzing the impact of various regulatory programs on the federal deficit, which could result in increased pressure on federal programs to reduce costs, including limiting federal healthcare expenditures. for example, in september 2011 the office of inspector general (oig) of the department of health and human services issued a report entitled "review of medicare part b avastin and lucentis treatments for age-related macular degeneration" in which the oig details possible savings to the medicare program by using off-label, repackaged avastin rather than lucentis for the treatment of wet amd. in addition, in march 2016, the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services (cms) of the department of health and human services released a proposed rule regarding a new payment model for the reimbursement by medicare of drugs administered in the physician office or hospital outpatient department settings. if approved, the proposed rule could potentially redistribute and reduce reimbursement currently available to physicians and hospitals that furnish such drugs, including eylea, and may also impact physician prescription practices. economic pressure on state budgets may also have a similar impact. a reduction in the availability or extent of reimbursement from u.s. government programs could have a material adverse effect on the sales of eylea. in addition, other third-party payers (including pharmacy benefit management companies) are challenging the prices charged for healthcare products and increasingly limiting, and attempting to limit, both coverage and level of reimbursement for prescription drugs. since eylea is too expensive for most patients to afford without health insurance coverage, if adequate coverage and reimbursement by third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid in the united states, is not available, our ability to successfully commercialize eylea will be materially adversely impacted. our sales and potential profits and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be materially harmed. see also "risks related to commercialization of products - the successful commercialization of our marketed products, as well as our late-stage product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if approved, will depend on obtaining and maintaining coverage and reimbursement for use of these products from third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid in the united states, and these payers may not cover or adequately reimburse for use of our products or may do so at levels that make our products uncompetitive and/or unprofitable, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition " below. the commercial success of eylea is subject to strong competition. the market for eye disease products is very competitive (an overview of the competitive landscape for eylea is provided in part i, item 1. "business - competition - eylea "). for example, novartis and genentech/roche are collaborating on the commercialization and further development of a vegf antibody fragment, lucentis, for the treatment of various eye indications. lucentis is approved in one or more jurisdictions for the treatment of wet amd, macular edema following rvo (including crvo and brvo), dme, diabetic retinopathy in patients with dme, and mcnv. competitors are also exploring the development of a biosimilar version of lucentis; in particular, pfenex is developing pf582 (a phase 1b/2a trial in patients with wet amd has been completed), and formycon (in collaboration with bioeq) is developing fyb201 (currently in a phase 3 trial in patients with wet amd). other competitive or potentially competitive products include allergan's ozurdex (approved by the fda for the treatment of macular edema following rvo and for the treatment of dme) and alimera's iluvien (approved by the fda for the treatment of dme in patients who have been previously treated with a course of corticosteroids and did not have a clinically significant rise in intraocular pressure), both of which are intravitreal implants of corticosteroids. many other companies are working on the development of product candidates and extended delivery devices for the potential treatment of wet amd, dme, and rvo, including those that act by blocking vegf and vegf receptors, as well as small interfering ribonucleic acids (sirnas) that modulate gene expression. for example, genentech/roche is developing a lucentis port delivery system implant (currently in a phase 2 study in patients with wet amd). novartis is developing rth258 (esba1008), a humanized monoclonal single-chain fv (scfv) antibody fragment targeting vegf-a for wet amd, and initiated a non-inferiority phase 3 trial comparing rth258 and eylea in december 2014. allergan is developing abicipar pegol for wet amd and related conditions (currently studied in phase 3 trials against lucentis as a comparator drug). additionally, companies are developing products (or combinations of products) to treat wet amd that act by blocking vegf and vegf receptors, as well as other targets (for example, ang2). genentech/roche is developing a bi-specific antibody targeting both vegf and ang2 for wet amd and dme (currently in phase 2 trials for both indications). competitors are also developing eye-drop formulations, oral therapies, and gene/cell therapies for various indications that, if approved, would compete with eylea in one or more of its currently approved indications. in addition, ophthalmologists are using off-label, third-party repackaged versions of genentech/roche's approved vegf antagonist, avastin, for the treatment of wet amd, dme, and rvo. the relatively low cost of therapy with repackaged avastin in patients with wet amd presents a significant competitive challenge in this indication. competitors (including amgen) are also 29 table of contents developing a biosimilar version of avastin. long-term, controlled clinical trials comparing lucentis to avastin in the treatment of wet amd are being conducted. one-year data from the comparison of age-related macular degeneration treatments trial (catt) were reported in april 2011 and indicated that avastin dosed monthly was non-inferior to lucentis dosed monthly in the primary efficacy endpoint of mean visual acuity gain at 52 weeks. two-year data from catt were reported in april 2012 and indicated that monthly avastin was non-inferior to monthly lucentis in mean visual acuity gain; as-needed dosing was not non-inferior to monthly dosing. avastin is also being evaluated in eye diseases in trials that have been initiated in the united kingdom, canada, brazil, mexico, germany, israel, and other countries. furthermore, lucentis and off-label use of repackaged avastin present significant competitive challenges as doctors and patients have had significant experience using these medicines. moreover, the reported results of the catt study, combined with the relatively low cost of repackaged avastin in treating patients with wet amd, may exacerbate the competitive challenge which eylea faces in this or other eye indications for which it is approved. finally, zaltrap has not been manufactured and formulated for use in intravitreal injections, and there is a risk that third parties may attempt to repackage zaltrap for off-label use and sale for the treatment of wet amd and other diseases of the eye, which would present a potential low-cost competitive threat to eylea for its approved indications. we are aware of one published study claiming that zaltrap (ziv-aflibercept) may be safely administered to the eye. see also "risks related to commercialization of products - we may be unsuccessful in continuing the commercialization of our marketed products or in commercializing our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if approved, which would materially and adversely affect our business, profitability, and future prospects " below. we rely on our collaboration with bayer for commercializing eylea. while we have established our own sales and marketing organization for eylea in the united states for its currently approved indications, our commercialization experience is still relatively limited and we have no sales, marketing, commercial, or distribution capabilities for eylea outside the united states. under the terms of our license and collaboration agreement with bayer (which is terminable by bayer at any time upon six or twelve months' advance notice), we rely on bayer for sales, marketing, and distribution of eylea in countries outside the united states. if we and bayer are unsuccessful in continuing to commercialize eylea, our ability to sustain profitability would be materially impaired. we have limited commercial capabilities outside the united states and would have to develop or outsource these capabilities. therefore, termination of the bayer collaboration agreement would create substantial new and additional risks to the successful commercialization of eylea, particularly outside the united states. for additional information regarding our collaboration with bayer, see "risks related to our reliance on third parties - if our collaboration with bayer for eylea is terminated, or bayer materially breaches its obligations thereunder, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition, and our ability to continue to develop eylea and commercialize eylea outside the united states in the time expected, or at all, would be materially harmed " below. sales of eylea recorded by us and bayer could be reduced by imports from countries where eylea may be available at lower prices. our sales of eylea in the united states and bayer's sales of eylea in other countries may be reduced if eylea is imported into those countries from lower priced markets, whether legally or illegally (a practice known as parallel trading or reimportation). parallel traders (who may repackage or resize the original product or sell it through alternative channels such as mail order or the internet) take advantage of the price differentials between markets arising from factors including sales costs, market conditions (such as intermediate trading stages), tax rates, or national regulation of prices. under our arrangement with bayer, pricing and reimbursement for eylea outside the united states is the responsibility of bayer. prices for eylea in territories outside the united states are based on local market economics and competition and are likely to differ from country to country. in the united states, prices for pharmaceuticals are generally higher than in the bordering nations of canada and mexico and our sales of eylea in the united states may be reduced if eylea marketed in those nations is imported into the united states. parallel-trading practices also are of particular relevance to the eu, where they have been encouraged by the current regulatory framework. these types of imports may exert pressure on the pricing of eylea in a particular market or reduce our or bayer's sales, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations. in addition, there have been proposals to legalize the import of pharmaceuticals from outside the united states. if such legislation were enacted, our future revenues derived from eylea sales could be reduced. 30 table of contents risks related to commercialization of praluent if we or sanofi are unable to successfully commercialize praluent, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed. we expect that the commercial success of praluent will depend on many factors, including the following: effectiveness of the commercial strategy in and outside the united states for the marketing of praluent, including pricing strategy and the effectiveness of efforts to obtain, and the timing of obtaining, adequate third-party reimbursements; our and sanofi's ability to differentiate praluent from amgen's repatha and other competitive products; the outcome of the pending patent infringement proceedings initiated by amgen against us and sanofi (described further in part i, item 3. "legal proceedings" of this report), and other risks associated with intellectual property of other parties and pending or future litigation relating thereto, as discussed under "risks related to intellectual property and market exclusivity" below; the ability of patients and providers to obtain and maintain sufficient coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid in the united states and other government and private payers in the united states and foreign jurisdictions; payer restrictions on eligible patient populations and the reimbursement process, both in the united states and abroad; our and sanofi's ability to maintain sales of praluent in the face of competitive products, including repatha , as well as product candidates currently in clinical development; the results of post-approval studies of (i) praluent (including the ongoing odyssey outcomes trial prospectively assessing the potential of praluent to demonstrate cardiovascular benefit), whether conducted by us or by others and whether mandated by regulatory agencies or voluntary, and (ii) other pcsk9 inhibitors, including repatha, that could implicate an entire class of products or are perceived to do so; our ability to meet the demand for commercial supplies of praluent; the effect of existing and new health care laws and regulations currently being considered or implemented in the united states, including reporting and disclosure requirements of such laws and regulations and the potential impact of such requirements on physician prescription practices; and maintaining and successfully monitoring commercial manufacturing arrangements for praluent with parties who perform fill/finish or other steps in the manufacture of praluent to ensure that they meet our standards and those of regulatory authorities, including the fda, which extensively regulate and monitor pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities. more detailed information about the risks related to the commercialization of praluent is provided in the risk factors below. we and sanofi are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight with respect to praluent. if we or sanofi fail to maintain regulatory compliance for praluent, praluent marketing approval may be withdrawn, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. we and sanofi are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight with respect to praluent for its currently approved indications in the united states, eu, and other countries. if we or sanofi fail to maintain regulatory compliance for praluent for its currently approved indications (including because praluent does not meet the relevant endpoints of any required post-approval studies, such as the ongoing odyssey outcomes trial, or for any of the other reasons discussed below under "risks related to maintaining approval of our marketed products and the development and obtaining approval of our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products - obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval for drug products is costly, time-consuming, and highly uncertain "), praluent marketing approval may be withdrawn, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. failure to comply may also subject us to sanctions, product recalls, or withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications. see also "risks related to manufacturing and supply - if we fail to meet the stringent requirements of governmental regulation in the manufacture of drug products or product candidates, we could incur substantial remedial costs, delays in the development or approval of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products and/or in their commercial launch if they obtain regulatory approval, and a reduction in sales " below. serious complications or side effects in connection with the use of praluent could materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. serious complications or serious, unexpected side effects in connection with the use of praluent could materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. for additional information about some of these risks, see "risks related to maintaining approval of our marketed products and the development and obtaining approval of our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products - serious complications or side effects in connection with the use of our products and in clinical trials for our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products could cause our regulatory approvals to be revoked or limited or lead to delay or discontinuation of development of our product candidates or 31 table of contents new indications for our marketed products, which could severely harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition " below. sales of praluent are dependent on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payers in the united states and other countries, and changes to such reimbursement may materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. sales in the united states of praluent are dependent, in large part, on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payers, including private payer healthcare and insurance programs, health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit management companies, and government programs such as medicare and medicaid. sales of praluent in other countries are dependent, in large part, on similar reimbursement mechanisms and programs in those countries. government and other third-party payers (including pharmacy benefit management companies) are challenging the prices charged for healthcare products and increasingly limiting, and attempting to limit, both coverage and level of reimbursement for prescription drugs, such as by requiring outcomes-based or other pay-for-performance pricing arrangements. they are also imposing restrictions on eligible patient populations and the reimbursement process, including by means of required prior authorizations and utilization management criteria. for example, pharmacy benefit management companies often develop formularies to reduce their cost for medications. the breadth of the products covered by formularies varies considerably from one pharmacy benefit management company to another. failure to be included in such formularies or to achieve favorable formulary status may negatively impact the utilization and market share of praluent. if praluent is not included within an adequate number of formularies, adequate reimbursement levels are not provided, the eligible insured patient population for praluent is limited, or a key payer refuses to provide reimbursement for praluent in a particular jurisdiction altogether, this could have a material adverse effect on our and sanofi's ability to commercialize praluent. in the united states, there also is an increased focus from the federal government and others on analyzing the impact of various regulatory programs on the federal deficit, which could result in increased pressure on federal programs to reduce costs, including limiting federal healthcare expenditures. economic pressure on state budgets may also have a similar impact. a reduction in the availability or extent of reimbursement from u.s. government programs could have a material adverse effect on the sales of praluent. since praluent is too expensive for most patients to afford without health insurance coverage, if adequate coverage and reimbursement by third-party payers in the united states and other countries, including medicare and medicaid in the united states, is not available, our ability to successfully commercialize praluent will be materially adversely impacted. our sales and potential profits and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be materially harmed. see also "risks related to commercialization of products - the successful commercialization of our marketed products, as well as our late-stage product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if approved, will depend on obtaining and maintaining coverage and reimbursement for use of these products from third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid in the united states, and these payers may not cover or adequately reimburse for use of our products or may do so at levels that make our products uncompetitive and/or unprofitable, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition " below. the commercial success of praluent is subject to strong competition. there is significant actual and potential future competition for praluent (an overview of the competitive landscape for praluent is provided in part i, item 1. "business - competition - praluent "). amgen's pcsk9 program is currently the most advanced of the competitors, having already received regulatory approvals in jurisdictions including the u.s., the eu, and japan for its pcsk9 inhibitor repatha. amgen may obtain marketing approval for repatha in one or more additional countries before praluent is approved in those countries. several other companies, including astrazeneca and eli lilly, also have development programs for antibodies against pcsk9. alnylam, in collaboration with the medicines company, has a clinical program underway with an rnai molecule against pcsk9. in addition, there are therapeutic products targeting pcsk9 operating through other mechanisms of action in development, including oral products and vaccines. oral products that lower ldl-c, if approved, may also be competitive with pcsk9 inhibitors, including praluent. certain late-stage inhibitors of cholesterylester transfer protein (cetp), such as merck's anacetrapib, lower ldl-c and may be launched with supporting data from outcomes trials prior to the completion of our own outcomes trial for praluent. other oral agents for lowering ldl-c that may potentially compete with praluent include etc-1002, which is being developed by esperion; and gemcabene, which is being developed by gemphire. 32 table of contents we rely on our antibody collaboration with sanofi for commercializing praluent. in accordance with the terms of our antibody collaboration with sanofi, we have elected to co-promote praluent with sanofi in the united states. as such, we continue to rely in part on sanofi's sales and marketing organization in the united states. if we and sanofi fail to coordinate our united states sales and marketing efforts effectively, sales of praluent may be materially affected. sanofi also maintains other important responsibilities relating to praluent in the united states. for example, sanofi records product sales and cost of sales for praluent in the united states, serves as the lead regulatory party ( e.g. , is responsible for regulatory filings and negotiations relating to praluent in the united states), and leads negotiations with payors. we also rely on sanofi for sales, marketing, and distribution of praluent in countries outside the united states. if we or sanofi are unsuccessful in commercializing praluent, or if sanofi terminates the antibody collaboration with us, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially impaired. we have limited commercial capabilities outside the united states and would have to develop or outsource these capabilities for praluent. therefore, termination of our antibody collaboration would create substantial new and additional risks to the successful commercialization of praluent, particularly outside the united states. for additional information regarding our antibody collaboration with sanofi, see "risks related to our reliance on third parties - if any of our collaborations with sanofi is terminated, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition, and our ability to discover, develop, manufacture, and commercialize our pipeline of product candidates in the time expected, or at all, would be materially harmed " below. sales of praluent recorded by sanofi could be reduced by imports from countries where praluent may be available at lower prices. sales of praluent recorded by sanofi in the united states and other countries (which impact our share of any profits or losses from the commercialization of praluent under our antibody collaboration with sanofi and, therefore, our results of operations) may be reduced if praluent is imported into those countries from lower priced markets, whether legally or illegally (a practice known as parallel trading or reimportation). parallel traders (who may repackage or resize the original product or sell it through alternative channels such as mail order or the internet) take advantage of the price differentials between markets arising from factors including sales costs, market conditions (such as intermediate trading stages), tax rates, or national regulation of prices. under our antibody collaboration with sanofi, pricing and reimbursement for praluent outside the united states is the responsibility of sanofi. prices for praluent in territories outside the united states are based on local market economics and competition and are likely to differ from country to country. in the united states, prices for pharmaceuticals are generally higher than in the bordering nations of canada and mexico and sales of praluent in the united states that are recorded by sanofi may be reduced if praluent marketed in those bordering nations is imported into the united states. parallel-trading practices also are of particular relevance to the eu, where they have been encouraged by the current regulatory framework. these types of imports may exert pressure on the pricing of praluent in a particular market or the sales recorded by sanofi, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations. in addition, there have been proposals to legalize the import of pharmaceuticals from outside the united states. if such legislation were enacted, our future revenues derived from praluent sales could be reduced. risks related to maintaining approval of our marketed products and the development and obtaining approval of our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products if we do not maintain regulatory approval for our marketed products, and obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, we will not be able to market or sell them, which would materially and negatively impact our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. we cannot sell or market products without regulatory approval. if we do not maintain regulatory approval for our marketed products, and obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates or new indications of our marketed products, the value of our company and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition will be materially harmed. if we are unable to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, or if we are materially delayed in doing so, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed. obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval for drug products is costly, time-consuming, and highly uncertain. in the united states, we must obtain and maintain approval from the fda for each drug we intend to sell. obtaining fda approval is typically a lengthy and expensive process, and approval is highly uncertain. we cannot predict with certainty if or when we might submit for regulatory approval any of our product candidates currently under development. any approvals we may obtain may not cover all of the clinical indications for which we are seeking approval. also, an approval might contain significant limitations in the form of narrow indications, warnings, precautions, or contra-indications with respect to conditions of use. the fda has substantial discretion in the approval process (including with respect to setting specific conditions for submission) and may either refuse to accept an application for substantive review or may form the opinion after review of an application that the application is insufficient to allow approval of a product candidate. if the fda does not accept our application for review or approve our application, it may require that we conduct additional clinical, preclinical, or manufacturing validation 33 table of contents studies and submit the data before it will reconsider our application. depending on the extent of these or any other studies that might be required, approval of any applications that we submit may be delayed significantly, or we may be required to expend more resources. it is also possible that any such additional studies, if performed and completed, may not be considered sufficient by the fda to make our applications approvable. if any of these outcomes occur, we may be forced to delay or abandon our applications for approval. the fda may also require us to conduct additional clinical trials after granting approval of a product. its ability to do so has been enhanced by the food and drug administration amendments act of 2007, pursuant to which the fda has the explicit authority to require postmarketing studies (also referred to as post-approval or phase 4 studies), labeling changes based on new safety information, and compliance with fda-approved risk evaluation and mitigation strategies. post-approval studies, whether conducted by us or by others and whether mandated by regulatory agencies or voluntary, and other data about our marketed products (or data about products similar to our marketed products that implicate an entire class of products or are perceived to do so) may result in changes in product labeling, restrictions on use, product withdrawal or recall, loss of approval, or lower sales of our products. according to the fda policies under the prescription drug user fee act, the fda system of review times for new drugs includes standard review and priority review. standard review can be accomplished in a ten-month time frame from the time the application is filed by the fda (filing date), which typically occurs approximately 60 days following submission of the application by the applicant. the fda has stated the goal to act on 90% of standard new molecular entity (nme) new drug application (nda) and original bla submissions within 10 months of the filing date. a priority review designation is given to drugs that treat a serious condition and offer major advances in treatment, or provide a treatment where no adequate therapy exists, and may also be afforded to a human drug application based on a priority review voucher. the fda has stated the goal to act on 90% of priority nme nda and original bla submissions within 6 months of the filing date. however, the fda's review goals are subject to change and the duration of the fda's review depends on a number of factors, including the number and types of other applications that are submitted to the fda around the same time period or are pending. even if any of our applications receives a priority review designation, we may not ultimately be able to obtain approval of our application within a time frame consistent with the fda's stated review goals or at all, and such designation may not actually lead to a faster development or regulatory review or approval process. the fda enforces good clinical practices (gcps) and other regulations through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, clinical research organizations (cros), principal investigators, and trial sites. if we or any of the third parties conducting our clinical studies are determined to have failed to fully comply with gcps, the study protocol or applicable regulations, the clinical data generated in those studies may be deemed unreliable. this could result in non-approval of our product candidates by the fda, or we or the fda may decide to conduct additional audits or require additional clinical studies, which would delay our development programs, require us to incur additional costs, and could substantially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. before approving a new drug or biologic product, the fda requires that the facilities at which the product will be manufactured or advanced through the supply chain be in compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cgmp, requirements and regulations governing the manufacture, shipment, and storage of the product. these cgmp requirements and regulations are not prescriptive instructions on how to manufacture products, but rather a series of principles that must be observed during manufacturing; as a result, their implementation may not be clearly delineated and may present a challenging task. manufacturing product candidates in compliance with these regulatory requirements is complex, time-consuming, and expensive. to be successful, our products must be manufactured in compliance with regulatory requirements, and at competitive costs. if we or any of our product collaborators, or third-party manufacturers, product packagers, labelers, or other parties performing steps in the supply chain are unable to maintain regulatory compliance, the fda can impose regulatory sanctions, including, among other things, refusal to approve a pending application for a new drug or biologic product, or revocation of a pre-existing approval. for example, on october 28, 2016, the fda issued a complete response letter relating to the bla for sarilumab, which referred to certain deficiencies identified during a routine cgmp inspection of the sanofi facility in le trait, france where sarilumab is filled and finished; satisfactory resolution of these deficiencies is required before the bla can be approved. for additional information, see "risks related to manufacturing and supply - if we fail to meet the stringent requirements of governmental regulation in the manufacture of drug products or product candidates, we could incur substantial remedial costs, delays in the development or approval of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products and/or in their commercial launch if they obtain regulatory approval, and a reduction in sales. " our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed as a result of noncompliance with the requirements and regulations described in this paragraph. in addition to the fda and other regulatory agency regulations in the united states, we are subject to a variety of foreign regulatory requirements governing human clinical trials, manufacturing, marketing and approval of drugs, and commercial sale and distribution of drugs in foreign countries. the foreign regulatory approval process is similarly likely to be a lengthy and expensive process, the result of which is highly uncertain, and foreign regulatory requirements include all of the risks associated 34 table of contents with fda approval as well as country specific regulations. in addition, actions by a regulatory agency in a country or region with respect to a product candidate may have an impact on the approval process for that product candidate in another country or region. foreign regulatory authorities often also have the authority to require post-approval studies, which involve various risks similar to those described above. whether or not we obtain fda approval for a product in the united states, we must obtain approval of the product by the comparable regulatory authorities in foreign countries before we can conduct clinical trials of or market that product or any other product in those countries. preclinical and clinical studies required for our product candidates and new indications of our marketed products are expensive and time-consuming, and their outcome is highly uncertain. if any such studies are delayed or yield unfavorable results, regulatory approval for our product candidates or new indications of our marketed products may be delayed or become unobtainable. as described above, we must conduct extensive testing of our product candidates and new indications of our marketed products before we can obtain regulatory approval to market and sell them. we need to conduct both preclinical animal testing and human clinical trials. conducting such studies is a lengthy, time-consuming, and expensive process. these tests and trials may not achieve favorable results for many reasons, including, among others, failure of the product candidate to demonstrate safety or efficacy, the development of serious or life-threatening adverse events (or side effects) caused by or connected with exposure to the product candidate, difficulty in enrolling and maintaining subjects in a clinical trial, lack of sufficient supplies of the product candidate or comparator drug, and the failure of clinical investigators, trial monitors, contractors, consultants, or trial subjects to comply with the trial plan, protocol, or applicable regulations related to good laboratory practices (glps) or gcps. a clinical trial may fail because it did not include and retain a sufficient number of patients to detect the endpoint being measured or reach statistical significance. a clinical trial may also fail because the dose(s) of the investigational drug included in the trial were either too low or too high to determine the optimal effect of the investigational drug in the disease setting. we will need to reevaluate any drug candidate that does not test favorably and either conduct new studies, which are expensive and time consuming, or abandon that drug development program. if preclinical testing yields unfavorable results, product candidates may not advance to clinical trials. the failure of clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of our clinical candidates for the desired indication(s) would preclude the successful development of those candidates for such indication(s), in which event our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed. successful development of our current and future product candidates is uncertain. only a small minority of all research and development programs ultimately result in commercially successful drugs. clinical trials may not demonstrate statistically sufficient effectiveness and safety to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for these product candidates in these indications. many companies in the biopharmaceutical industry, including our company, have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, even after promising results have been obtained in earlier trials. in a number of instances, we have terminated the development of product candidates due to a lack of or only modest effectiveness, and clinical trials evaluating our product candidates failed to meet the relevant endpoints. for example, in september 2016, we reported that in the phase 2 study evaluating aflibercept co-formulated with rinucumab, an antibody to platelet derived growth factor receptor beta (pdgfr-beta), in patients with wet amd, the combination therapy did not demonstrate an improvement in best corrected visual acuity compared to intravitreal aflibercept injection monotherapy at 12 weeks. moreover, even if we obtain positive results from preclinical testing or clinical trials, we may not achieve the same success in future trials, or the fda and analogous foreign regulatory authorities may deem the results insufficient for an approval. for instance, based on the results of three phase 3 studies, we submitted a supplemental bla filing to the fda seeking approval of arcalyst for the prevention of gout flares in patients initiating uric acid-lowering drug therapy. in may 2012, the arthritis advisory committee of the fda voted to recommend against approval of arcalyst for the prevention of gout flares in patients initiating uric acid-lowering drug therapy and, in july 2012, we received a complete response letter from the fda requesting additional information, including clinical data, as well as additional cmc information related to a proposed new dosage form. we have discontinued development of arcalyst for gout. many of our clinical trials are conducted under the oversight of independent data monitoring committees (idmcs). these independent oversight bodies are made up of external experts who review the progress of ongoing clinical trials, including available safety and efficacy data, and make recommendations concerning a trial's continuation, modification, or termination based on interim, unblinded data. any of our ongoing clinical trials may be discontinued or amended in response to recommendations made by responsible idmcs based on their review of such interim trial results. for example, in september 2009, a phase 3 trial that was evaluating zaltrap as a first-line treatment for metastatic pancreatic cancer in combination with gemcitabine was discontinued at the recommendation of an idmc after a planned analysis of interim efficacy data determined that the trial would not meet its efficacy endpoint. the recommended termination of any of our ongoing late-stage clinical trials by an idmc could negatively impact the future development of our product candidate(s), and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed. 35 table of contents we are studying our antibody candidates in a wide variety of indications in clinical trials. many of these trials are exploratory studies designed to evaluate the safety profile of these compounds and to identify what diseases and uses, if any, are best suited for these product candidates. these product candidates may not demonstrate the requisite efficacy and/or safety profile to support continued development for some or all of the indications that are being, or are planned to be, studied, which would diminish our clinical "pipeline" and could negatively affect our future prospects and the value of our company. serious complications or side effects in connection with the use of our products and in clinical trials for our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products could cause our regulatory approvals to be revoked or limited or lead to delay or discontinuation of development of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, which could severely harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. during the conduct of clinical trials, patients report changes in their health, including illnesses, injuries, and discomforts, to their study doctor. often, it is not possible to determine whether or not the drug candidate being studied caused these conditions. various illnesses, injuries, and discomforts have been reported from time-to-time during clinical trials of our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products. it is possible that as we test our drug candidates or new indications in larger, longer, and more extensive clinical programs, or as use of these drugs becomes more widespread if they receive regulatory approval, illnesses, injuries, and discomforts that were observed in earlier trials, as well as conditions that did not occur or went undetected in previous trials, will be reported by patients. many times, side effects are only detectable after investigational drugs are tested in large-scale, phase 3 clinical trials or, in some cases, after they are made available to patients after approval. if additional clinical experience indicates that any of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products has many side effects or causes serious or life-threatening side effects, the development of the product candidate may be delayed or fail, or, if the product candidate has received regulatory approval, such approval may be revoked, which would severely harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. eylea is being studied in additional indications, and aflibercept is being studied as a combination product. there are many potential safety concerns associated with significant blockade of vegf that may limit our ability to further successfully develop and/or commercialize aflibercept. these serious and potentially life-threatening risks, based on clinical and preclinical experience of vegf inhibitors, include bleeding, intestinal perforation, hypertension, proteinuria, congestive heart failure, heart attack, and stroke. other vegf blockers have reported side effects that became evident only after large-scale trials or after marketing approval when large numbers of patients were treated. there are risks inherent in the intravitreal administration of drugs like aflibercept (such as intraocular inflammation, sterile and culture positive endophthalmitis, corneal decomposition, retinal detachment, and retinal tear), which can cause injury to the eye and other complications. for example, in our phase 3 trials of eylea in wet amd, the most frequent ocular adverse events were conjunctival hemorrhage, macular degeneration, eye pain, retinal hemorrhage, and vitreous floaters. these and other complications or side effects could harm further development and/or commercialization of aflibercept. the potential of praluent to demonstrate cardiovascular benefit is being prospectively assessed in the ongoing odyssey outcomes trial. there is no guarantee that praluent will meet the relevant endpoints of this trial. in addition, there are potential safety concerns associated with pcsk9 inhibitor antibodies such as praluent that may limit our ability to further successfully develop and/or commercialize praluent, including new-onset diabetes mellitus, injection-site reactions, hypersensitivity, immunogenicity, demyelination, and changes in neurocognitive function. there also are risks inherent in subcutaneous injections, including subcutaneous injections with praluent, such as injection-site reactions (including redness, itching, swelling, pain, and tenderness) and other side effects. these and other complications or side effects could harm further development and/or commercialization of praluent. our product candidates in development are recombinant proteins that could cause an immune response, resulting in the creation of harmful or neutralizing antibodies against the therapeutic protein. in addition to the safety, efficacy, manufacturing, and regulatory hurdles faced by our product candidates, the administration of recombinant proteins frequently causes an immune response, resulting in the creation of antibodies against the therapeutic protein. the antibodies can have no effect or can totally neutralize the effectiveness of the protein, or require that higher doses be used to obtain a therapeutic effect. in some cases, the antibody can cross-react with the patient's own proteins, resulting in an "auto-immune" type disease. whether antibodies will be created can often not be predicted from preclinical or clinical experiments, and their detection or appearance is often delayed, so neutralizing antibodies may be detected at a later date, in some cases even after pivotal clinical trials have been completed. 36 table of contents we may be unable to formulate or manufacture our product candidates in a way that is suitable for clinical or commercial use, which would delay or prevent continued development of such candidates and/or receipt of regulatory approval or commercial sale, which could materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. if we are unable to continue to develop suitable product formulations or manufacturing processes to support large-scale clinical testing of our product candidates, including our antibody candidates, we may be unable to supply necessary materials for our clinical trials, which would delay or prevent the development of our product candidates. similarly, if we are unable, directly or through our collaborators or third parties, to supply sufficient quantities of our products or develop formulations of our product candidates suitable for commercial use, we will be unable to obtain regulatory approval for those product candidates. some of our products and, if approved, product candidates may be used with drug delivery devices, which have their own regulatory and other risks. some of our products (such as praluent) are used and, if approved, some of our product candidates may be used in combination with a drug delivery device, including a pre-filled syringe, patch pump, auto-injector, or other delivery system. the success of our product candidates may depend to a significant extent on the performance of such devices, some of which may be novel or comprised of complex components. given the increased complexity of the review process when approval of the product and device is sought under a single marketing application, our product candidates used with such drug delivery devices may be substantially delayed in receiving regulatory approval or may not be approved at all. in addition, some of these drug delivery devices may be provided by single-source, third-party providers or our collaborators. in any such case, we may be dependent on the sustained cooperation of those third-party providers or collaborators to supply the devices; to conduct the studies required for approval or clearance by the applicable regulatory agencies; and to continue to meet the applicable regulatory and other requirements to maintain approval or clearance once it has been received. failure to successfully develop or supply the devices, delays in or failure of the studies conducted by us, our collaborators, or third-party providers, or failure of our company, our collaborators, or the third-party providers to obtain or maintain regulatory approval or clearance of the devices could result in increased development costs, delays in or failure to obtain regulatory approval, and associated delays in a product candidate reaching the market. loss of regulatory approval or clearance of a device that is used with our product may also result in the removal of our product from the market. further, failure to successfully develop or supply these devices, or to gain or maintain their approval, could adversely affect sales of the related products. risks related to intellectual property and market exclusivity if we cannot protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets or our patents are insufficient to protect our proprietary rights, our business and competitive position will be harmed. our business requires using sensitive and proprietary technology and other information that we protect as trade secrets. we seek to prevent improper disclosure of these trade secrets through confidentiality agreements. if our trade secrets are improperly disclosed, by our current or former employees, our collaborators, or otherwise, it would help our competitors and adversely affect our business. we will be able to protect our proprietary rights only to the extent that our proprietary technologies and other information are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. the patent position of biotechnology companies, including our company, involves complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, enforceability cannot be predicted with certainty. our patents may be challenged, invalidated, held to be unenforceable, or circumvented. patent applications filed outside the united states may be challenged by other parties, for example, by filing third-party observations that argue against patentability or an opposition. such opposition proceedings are increasingly common in the eu and are costly to defend. for example, our european patent no. 1,360,287 was, and our european patent no. 2,264,163 is, the subject of opposition proceedings in the european patent office, as described in part i, item 3. "legal proceedings" of this report. we have pending patent applications in the united states patent and trademark office, the european patent office, and the patent offices of other foreign jurisdictions, and it is likely that we will need to defend patents from challenges by others from time to time in the future. certain of our u.s. patents may also be challenged by parties who file a request for post-grant review or inter partes reexamination under the america invents act of 2011 or ex parte reexamination. post-grant proceedings are increasingly common in the united states and are costly to defend. our patent rights may not provide us with a proprietary position or competitive advantages against competitors. furthermore, even if the outcome is favorable to us, the enforcement of our intellectual property rights can be extremely expensive and time consuming. 37 table of contents we may be restricted in our development, manufacturing, and/or commercialization activities by patents or other proprietary rights of others, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed such patents or rights. our commercial success depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of others. other parties may allege that they own blocking patents to our products in clinical development or even to products that have received regulatory approval and are being or have been commercialized, either because they claim to hold proprietary rights to the composition of a product or the way it is manufactured or the way it is used. moreover, other parties may allege that they have blocking patents to antibody products made using our velocimmune technology, or any other of our technologies, either because of the way the antibodies are discovered or produced or because of a proprietary composition covering an antibody or the antibody's target. we have been in the past, are currently, and may in the future be involved in patent litigation and other proceedings involving patents and other intellectual property. for example, we are currently party to patent infringement proceedings initiated by amgen against us and sanofi relating to praluent, as described in part i, item 3. "legal proceedings" of this report. in addition, we are currently party to patent infringement proceedings initiated by us relating to our european patent no. 1,360,287, our european patent no. 2,264,163, and our u.s. patent no. 8,502,018, all of which concern genetically altered mice capable of producing chimeric antibodies that are part human and part mouse, as described in part i, item 3. "legal proceedings" of this report. we are aware of additional patents and pending patent applications owned by others that claim antibodies to pcsk9 and methods of treating hypercholesterolemia with such antibodies. we are also aware of patents and pending patent applications owned by others that respectively claim antibodies to il-6r and methods of treating conditions including rheumatoid arthritis and uveitis with such antibodies; and antibodies to il-4r and methods of treating conditions including atopic dermatitis and asthma with such antibodies. in addition to praluent, our late-stage antibody-based pipeline includes sarilumab, an antibody to il-6r, intended for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and non-infectious uveitis; dupixent (dupilumab), an antibody to il-4r, intended for the treatment of atopic dermatitis, asthma, nasal polyps, and eosinophilic esophagitis; regn2222, an antibody targeting rsv-f; and fasinumab, an antibody to ngf. with respect to dupixent, we are aware of certain patents owned by immunex corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of amgen. these patents include u.s. patent no. 8,679,487 and european patent no. 2,292,665 (the '665 patent) and are generally directed to antibodies that bind to il-4r. on september 30, 2016, sanofi initiated a revocation proceeding to invalidate the u.k. counterpart of the '665 patent in the united kingdom. at the joint request of the parties to the revocation proceeding, the u.k. patents court ordered on january 30, 2017 that the revocation action be stayed pending the final determination of the currently pending european patent office opposition proceedings initiated by us and sanofi in relation to the '665 patent. the original patent term of the immunex patents is set to expire in 2021. although we do not believe that any of our late-stage antibody product candidates infringes any valid claim in these patents or patent applications, these other parties could initiate lawsuits for patent infringement and assert that their patents are valid and cover our late-stage antibody product candidates, similar to the patent infringement proceedings initiated by amgen referred to above. further, we are aware of a number of patent applications of others that, if granted with claims as currently drafted, may cover our current or planned activities. it could be determined that our products and/or actions in manufacturing or selling our product candidates infringe such patents. patent holders could assert claims against us for damages and seek to prevent us from manufacturing, selling, or developing our products or product candidates, and a court may find that we are infringing validly issued patents of others. in the event that the manufacture, use, or sale of any of our products or product candidates infringes on the patents or violates other proprietary rights of others, we may be prevented from pursuing product development, manufacturing, and commercialization of those drugs and may be required to pay costly damages. in addition, in the event that we assert our patent rights against other parties that we believe are infringing our patent rights, such parties may challenge the validity of our patents and we may become the target of litigation, which may result in an outcome that is unfavorable to us. any of these adverse developments may materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. in any event, legal disputes are likely to be costly and time consuming to defend. we seek to obtain licenses to patents when, in our judgment, such licenses are needed or advisable. if any licenses are required, we may not be able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. the failure to obtain any such license could prevent us from developing or commercializing any one or more of our products or product candidates, which could severely harm our business. 38 table of contents loss or limitation of patent rights, and new regulatory pathways for biosimilar competition, could reduce the duration of market exclusivity for our products. in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, the majority of an innovative product's commercial value is usually realized during the period in which it has market exclusivity. in the united states and some other countries, when market exclusivity expires and generic versions of a product are approved and marketed, there usually are very substantial and rapid declines in the product's sales. if our late-stage product candidates or other clinical candidates are approved for marketing in the united states or elsewhere, market exclusivity for those products will generally be based upon patent rights and/or certain regulatory forms of exclusivity. as described above under " if we cannot protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets or our patents are insufficient to protect our proprietary rights, our business and competitive position will be harmed, " the scope and enforceability of our patent rights may vary from country to country. the failure to obtain patent and other intellectual property rights, or limitations on the use, or the loss, of such rights could materially harm us. absent patent protection or regulatory exclusivity for our products, it is possible, both in the united states and elsewhere, that generic and/or biosimilar versions of those products may be approved and marketed, which would likely result in substantial and rapid reductions in revenues from sales of those products. under the federal ppaca, enacted in 2010, there is an abbreviated path in the united states for regulatory approval of products that are demonstrated to be "biosimilar" or "interchangeable" with an fda-approved biological product. the ppaca provides a regulatory mechanism that allows for fda approval of biologic drugs that are similar to (but not generic copies of) innovative drugs on the basis of less extensive data than is required by a full bla. under this regulation, an application for approval of a biosimilar may be filed four years after approval of the innovator product. however, qualified innovative biological products will receive 12 years of regulatory exclusivity, meaning that the fda may not approve a biosimilar version until 12 years after the innovative biological product was first approved by the fda. however, the term of regulatory exclusivity may not remain at 12 years in the united states and could be shortened. a number of jurisdictions outside of the united states have also established abbreviated pathways for regulatory approval of biological products that are biosimilar to earlier versions of biological products. for example, the eu has had an established regulatory pathway for biosimilars since 2005. the increased likelihood of biosimilar competition has increased the risk of loss of innovators' market exclusivity. due to this risk, and uncertainties regarding patent protection, if our late-stage product candidates or other clinical candidates are approved for marketing, it is not possible to predict the length of market exclusivity for any particular product with certainty based solely on the expiration of the relevant patent(s) or the current forms of regulatory exclusivity. it is also not possible to predict changes in united states regulatory law that might reduce biological product regulatory exclusivity. the loss of market exclusivity for a product would likely materially and negatively affect revenues from product sales of that product and thus our financial results and condition. risks related to manufacturing and supply we rely on limited internal and contracted manufacturing and supply chain capacity, which could result in our being unable to continue to successfully commercialize eylea, to successfully commercialize praluent and, if approved, our product candidates or other indications for our marketed products, and to advance our clinical pipeline. our manufacturing facilities would be inadequate to produce the active pharmaceutical ingredients of (a) our current marketed products, including eylea and praluent, and (b) our antibody product candidates in sufficient clinical quantities if our clinical pipeline advances as planned. in addition to expanding our internal capacity, we intend to rely on our collaborators, as well as contract manufacturers, to produce commercial quantities of drug material needed for commercialization of our products to the extent such quantities are not manufactured at our own facility. as we increase our production in anticipation of potential regulatory approval for our late-stage antibody product candidates, our current manufacturing capacity will likely not be sufficient, and we may depend on our collaborators or contract manufacturers, to produce adequate quantities of drug material for both commercial and clinical purposes. we rely entirely on other parties and our collaborators for filling and finishing services. generally, in order for other parties to perform any step in the manufacturing and supply chain, we must transfer technology to the other party, which can be time consuming and may not be successfully accomplished without considerable cost and expense, or at all. we will have to depend on these other parties to perform effectively on a timely basis and to comply with regulatory requirements. if for any reason they are unable to do so, and as a result we are unable to directly or through other parties manufacture and supply sufficient commercial and clinical quantities of our products on acceptable terms, or if we should encounter delays or other difficulties in our relationships with our collaborators, contract manufacturers, or other parties involved in our supply chain which adversely affect the timely manufacture and supply of our products or product candidates, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed. 39 table of contents expanding our manufacturing capacity will be costly and we may be unsuccessful in doing so in a timely manner, which could delay or prevent the launch and successful commercialization of our marketed products and late-stage product candidates or other indications for our marketed products if they are approved for marketing and could jeopardize our current and future clinical development programs. we have commenced construction of additional manufacturing space at our rensselaer, new york site to increase our manufacturing capacity. in addition, we have acquired and are renovating a 400,000 square foot facility in limerick, ireland to expand our manufacturing capacity to support our global supply chain. in the future, we may lease, operate, purchase, or construct additional facilities to conduct expanded manufacturing activities. expanding our manufacturing capacity to supply commercial quantities of the active pharmaceutical ingredients for our marketed products and our late-stage product candidates if they are approved for marketing, and to supply clinical drug material to support the continued growth of our clinical programs, will require substantial additional expenditures and various regulatory approvals and permits. in addition, the limerick, ireland facility remains subject to securing certain governmental permits, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain the remaining required permits in the contemplated timeframe, or at all. further, we will need to hire and train significant numbers of employees and managerial personnel to staff our expanding manufacturing and supply chain operations. start-up costs can be large, and scale-up entails significant risks related to process development and manufacturing yields. in addition, we may face difficulties or delays in developing or acquiring the necessary production equipment and technology to manufacture sufficient quantities of our product candidates at reasonable costs and in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. the fda and analogous foreign regulatory authorities must determine that our existing and any expanded manufacturing facilities comply, or continue to comply, with cgmp requirements for both clinical and commercial production and license them, or continue to license them, accordingly, and such facilities must also comply with applicable environmental, safety, and other governmental permitting requirements. we may not successfully expand or establish sufficient manufacturing capabilities or manufacture our products economically or in compliance with cgmps and other regulatory requirements, and we and our collaborators may not be able to build or procure additional capacity in the required timeframe to meet commercial demand for our late-stage product candidates if they receive regulatory approval, and to continue to meet the requirements of our clinical programs. this would interfere with our efforts to successfully commercialize eylea, praluent, and arcalyst and could also delay or require us to discontinue one or more of our clinical development programs. as a result, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition could be materially harmed. our ability to manufacture products may be impaired if any of our manufacturing activities, or the activities of third parties involved in our manufacture and supply chain, are found to infringe patents of others. our ability to continue to manufacture eylea, praluent, zaltrap, and arcalyst in our rensselaer, new york facilities and our ability to manufacture our marketed products at additional facilities (such as the limerick, ireland facility) in the future, or to utilize third parties to produce our products, to supply raw materials or other products, or to perform fill/finish services or other steps in our manufacture and supply chain, depends on our and their ability to operate without infringing the patents or other intellectual property rights of others. other parties may allege that our manufacturing activities, or the activities of third parties involved in our manufacture and supply chain (which may be located in jurisdictions outside the united states), infringe patents or other intellectual property rights. a judicial or regulatory decision in favor of one or more parties making such allegations could directly or indirectly preclude the manufacture of our products to which those intellectual property rights apply on a temporary or permanent basis, which could materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. if sales of eylea or praluent do not meet the levels currently expected, or if the launch of any of our product candidates is delayed or unsuccessful, we may face costs related to excess inventory or unused capacity at our manufacturing facilities and at the facilities of third parties. we have large-scale manufacturing operations in rensselaer, new york and are in the process of building a large-scale manufacturing facility in limerick, ireland. we use our manufacturing facilities primarily to produce bulk product for commercial supply of our marketed products and clinical and preclinical candidates for ourselves and our collaborations. we also plan to use such facilities to produce bulk product for commercial supply of new indications of our marketed products and new product candidates if they are approved for marketing. if our clinical candidates are discontinued or their clinical development is delayed, if the launch of new indications for our marketed products or new product candidates is delayed or does not occur, or if such products are launched and the launch is unsuccessful or the product is subsequently recalled or marketing approval is rescinded, we may have to absorb one hundred percent of related overhead costs and inefficiencies, as well as similar costs of third-party contract manufacturers performing services for us. in addition, if we experience excess inventory, it may be necessary to write down or even write off such excess inventory, which could adversely affect our operating results. 40 table of contents third-party service or supply failures, or other failures, business interruptions, or other disasters affecting our manufacturing facilities in rensselaer, new york or the facilities of any other party participating in the supply chain, would adversely affect our ability to supply our products. we currently manufacture all of our bulk drug materials at our manufacturing facilities in rensselaer, new york. we would be unable to manufacture these materials if our rensselaer facilities were to cease production due to regulatory requirements or actions, business interruptions, labor shortages or disputes, contaminations, fire, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, or other problems. many of our products and product candidates are very difficult to manufacture. as our products and product candidates are biologics, they require processing steps that are more difficult than those required for most chemical pharmaceuticals. accordingly, multiple steps are needed to control the manufacturing processes. problems with these manufacturing processes, even minor deviations from the normal process or from the materials used in the manufacturing process (which may not be detectable by us in a timely manner), could lead to product defects or manufacturing failures, resulting in lot failures, product recalls, product liability claims, and insufficient inventory. also, the complexity of our manufacturing process may make it difficult, time-consuming, and expensive to transfer our technology to our collaborators or contract manufacturers. also, certain raw materials or other products necessary for the manufacture and formulation of our marketed products and product candidates, some of which are difficult to source, are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. in addition, we rely on certain third parties to perform filling, finishing, distribution, laboratory testing, and other services related to the manufacture of our marketed products and product candidates, and to supply various raw materials and other products. we would be unable to obtain these raw materials, other products, or services for an indeterminate period of time if any of these third parties were to cease or interrupt production or otherwise fail to supply these materials, products, or services to us for any reason, including due to regulatory requirements or actions (including recalls), adverse financial developments at or affecting the supplier, failure by the supplier to comply with cgmps, contamination, business interruptions, or labor shortages or disputes. in any such circumstances, we may not be able to engage a backup or alternative supplier or service provider in a timely manner or at all. this, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our ability to manufacture or supply marketed products and product candidates, which could materially and adversely affect our business and future prospects. certain of the raw materials required in the manufacture and the formulation of our product candidates may be derived from biological sources, including mammalian tissues, bovine serum, and human serum albumin. there are certain european regulatory restrictions on using these biological source materials. if we are required to substitute for these sources to comply with european regulatory requirements, our clinical development or commercial activities may be delayed or interrupted. if we fail to meet the stringent requirements of governmental regulation in the manufacture of drug products or product candidates, we could incur substantial remedial costs, delays in the development or approval of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products and/or in their commercial launch if they obtain regulatory approval, and a reduction in sales. we and our third-party providers are required to maintain compliance with cgmps, and are subject to inspections by the fda or comparable agencies in other jurisdictions to confirm such compliance. changes of suppliers or modifications of methods of manufacturing may require amending our application(s) to the fda or such comparable foreign agencies and acceptance of the change by the fda or such comparable foreign agencies prior to release of product(s). because we produce multiple products and product candidates at our facility in rensselaer, new york, including eylea, praluent, zaltrap, and arcalyst, there are increased risks associated with cgmp compliance. our inability, or the inability of our third-party fill/finish or other service providers, to demonstrate ongoing cgmp compliance could require us to engage in lengthy and expensive remediation efforts, withdraw or recall product, halt or interrupt clinical trials, and/or interrupt commercial supply of any marketed products, and could also delay or prevent our obtaining regulatory approval for our late-stage product candidates or new indications for our marketed products. for example, on october 28, 2016, the fda issued a complete response letter relating to the bla for sarilumab, which referred to certain deficiencies identified during a routine cgmp inspection of the sanofi facility in le trait, france where sarilumab and dupilumab are filled and finished; satisfactory resolution of these deficiencies is required before the bla can be approved. while the fda subsequently reclassified the sanofi le trait fill-and-finish facility as "acceptable" based on review of responses to an fda form 483, as well as proposed corrective actions, there is no guarantee that sanofi will be able to resolve those deficiencies timely or at all. any delay, interruption, or other issue that arises in the manufacture, fill/finish, packaging, or storage of any drug product or product candidate as a result of a failure of our facilities or the facilities or operations of third parties to pass any regulatory agency inspection or maintain cgmp compliance could significantly impair our ability to develop, obtain approval for, and successfully commercialize our products, which would substantially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. any finding of non-compliance could also increase our costs, cause us to delay the development of our product candidates, result in delay in our obtaining, or our not obtaining, regulatory approval of product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, and cause us to lose revenue from any marketed products, which could be seriously detrimental to our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. 41 table of contents risks related to commercialization of products we may be unsuccessful in continuing the commercialization of our marketed products or in commercializing our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if approved, which would materially and adversely affect our business, profitability, and future prospects. even if clinical trials demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of any of our product candidates for a specific disease and the necessary regulatory approvals are obtained, the commercial success of any of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products will depend upon, among other things, their acceptance by patients, the medical community, and third-party payers and on our and our collaborators' ability to successfully manufacture, market and distribute those products in substantial commercial quantities or to establish and manage the required infrastructure to do so, including large-scale information technology systems and a large-scale distribution network. establishing and maintaining sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities are expensive and time-consuming. even if we obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates or new indications, if they are not successfully commercialized, we will not be able to recover the significant investment we have made in developing such products and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be severely harmed. the commercial success of our products may also be adversely affected by guidelines or recommendations to healthcare providers, administrators, payers, and patient communities that result in decreased use of our products. such guidelines or recommendations may be published not only by governmental agencies, but also professional societies, practice management groups, private foundations, and other interested parties. our product candidates are delivered either by intravenous infusion or by intravitreal or subcutaneous injections, which are generally less well received by patients than tablet or capsule delivery and this could adversely affect the commercial success of those products if they receive marketing approval. for a description of additional risks relating specifically to the commercialization of eylea and praluent, see above under "risks related to commercialization of eylea" and "risks related to commercialization of praluent," respectively. our marketed products are subject to significant competition, and our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if any are approved for marketing, may face significant competition. there is substantial competition in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries from biotechnology, pharmaceutical, and chemical companies. many of our competitors have substantially greater research, preclinical and clinical product development and manufacturing capabilities, as well as financial, marketing, and human resources, than we do. our smaller competitors may also enhance their competitive position if they acquire or discover patentable inventions, form collaborative arrangements, or merge with large pharmaceutical companies. even if we achieve commercialization of our product candidates, our competitors have achieved, and may continue to achieve, product commercialization before our products are approved for marketing and sale. the market for eye disease products is very competitive, as described in greater detail above under "risks related to commercialization of eylea - the commercial success of eylea is subject to strong competition ." there is also significant actual and potential future competition for praluent, the pcsk9 antibody we are developing and commercializing in collaboration with sanofi, as described in greater detail above under "risks related to commercialization of praluent - the commercial success of praluent is subject to strong competition ." our earlier-stage clinical candidates in development are all fully human monoclonal antibodies, which were generated using our velocimmune technology. our antibody generation technologies and earlier-stage clinical candidates face competition from many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies using various technologies. we are aware of several pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies actively engaged in the research and development of antibody products against targets that are also the targets of our early- and late-stage product candidates (an overview of the competitive landscape for our antibody programs that are in late-stage clinical development is provided in part i, item 1. "business - competition - monoclonal antibodies in development "). for example, pfizer (in collaboration with eli lilly) is developing an antibody product candidate against ngf. genentech/roche is marketing an antibody against il-6r (actemra) for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis that would compete with sarilumab, our il-6r antibody, if it is approved. in addition, several other companies, including johnson &amp; johnson (in collaboration with glaxosmithkline), alder (in collaboration with vitaeris), ablynx, and r-pharm, have antibodies against il-6 or il-6r in clinical development. a number of companies are developing antibodies that, if approved, may compete with dupilumab, our il-4r antibody, if it is approved, including roche (an antibody against il-13), astrazeneca (antibodies against il-4r, il-5r, and il-13), novartis (a combination antibody against il-4 and il-13), and amgen (in collaboration with astrazeneca) (an antibody against thymic stromal lymphopoietin, or tslp). glaxosmithkline's nucala and teva's cinqair, both of which are antibodies against il-5, may also compete with dupilumab, if dupilumab is approved. for rsv, astrazeneca commercializes an antibody against rsv-f protein, synagis, and other antibodies are in clinical development, 42 table of contents including by astrazeneca (in collaboration with aimm therapeutics). we are also aware of several companies developing or marketing small molecules that may compete with our antibody product candidates in various indications, if such product candidates obtain regulatory approval in those indications. for sarilumab, oral, small-molecule jak inhibitors such as pfizer's xeljanz and eli lilly's baricitinib may pose a competitive threat in the rheumatoid arthritis indication if sarilumab is approved in such indication. for dupilumab, pfizer's eucrisa may be a competitor in the atopic dermatitis indication if dupilumab is approved in such indication. if any of these or other competitors announces a successful clinical study involving a product that may be competitive with one of our product candidates or the grant of marketing approval by a regulatory agency for a competitive product, such developments may have an adverse effect on our business or future prospects. in addition, the first product to reach the market in a therapeutic area is often at a significant competitive advantage relative to later entrants to the market. accordingly, the relative speed with which we, or our collaborators, can develop our products candidates, complete the clinical trials and approval processes, and, if such product candidates are approved for marketing and sale, supply commercial quantities to the market is expected to continue to be an important competitive factor. due to the uncertainties associated with developing biopharmaceutical products, we may not be the first to obtain marketing approval for a product against any particular target, which may have a material adverse effect on our business or future prospects. the successful commercialization of our marketed products, as well as our late-stage product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if approved, will depend on obtaining and maintaining coverage and reimbursement for use of these products from third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid in the united states, and these payers may not cover or adequately reimburse for use of our products or may do so at levels that make our products uncompetitive and/or unprofitable, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. our future revenues and profitability will be adversely affected in a material manner if united states and foreign governmental payers, private third-party insurers and payers (such as health maintenance organizations and pharmacy benefit management companies), and other third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid, do not adequately defray or reimburse the cost of our products to the patients. if these entities do not provide coverage and reimbursement with respect to our products or provide an insufficient level of coverage and reimbursement, our products may be too costly for many patients to afford them, and physicians may not prescribe them. many third-party payers cover only selected drugs, or may prefer selected drugs, making drugs that are not covered or preferred by such payers more expensive for patients. third-party payers may also require prior authorization for reimbursement, or require failure on another type of treatment before covering a particular drug, particularly with respect to higher-priced drugs. as our currently marketed products and product candidates are biologics, bringing them to market may cost more than bringing traditional, small-molecule drugs to market due to the complexity associated with the research, development, production, supply and regulatory review of such products. given cost sensitivities in many health care systems, our currently marketed products and product candidates are likely to be subject to continued pricing pressures, which may have an adverse impact on our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. in addition, in order for private insurance and governmental payers (such as medicare and medicaid in the united states) to reimburse the cost of our products, we must, among other things, maintain our fda registration and our national drug code, maintain formulary approval by pharmacy benefits managers, and maintain recognition by insurance companies and cms. there is no certainty that we will be able to obtain or maintain the applicable requirements for reimbursement (including relevant formulary coverage) of our current and future products, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. government and other third-party payers (including pharmacy benefit management companies) are challenging the prices charged for healthcare products and increasingly limiting, and attempting to limit, both coverage and level of reimbursement for prescription drugs, such as by requiring outcomes-based or other pay-for-performance pricing arrangements. they are also imposing restrictions on eligible patient populations and the reimbursement process (including by means of required prior authorizations and utilization management criteria). in march 2010, the ppaca and a related reconciliation bill were enacted in the united states. this legislation imposes cost-containment and other measures that are likely to adversely affect the amount of reimbursement for our current and future products. the full effects of this legislation depend on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including new regulations and guidance issued by cms and other federal and state agencies. some states are also considering legislation that would control the prices of drugs, and state medicaid programs are increasingly requesting manufacturers to pay supplemental rebates and requiring prior authorization by the state program for use of any drug for which supplemental rebates are not being paid. it is likely that federal and state legislatures and health agencies will continue to focus on additional health care reform in the future that will impose additional constraints on prices and reimbursements for our products. there is a risk that third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid in the united states, may not cover and/or reimburse our current and future products at levels required for us to successfully commercialize these products. any limitation imposed by third-party payers on the use of our products if they are approved for marketing, or any action or decision by cms or analogous foreign agencies or authorities which for any reason denies coverage or reimbursement for our products or provides coverage or reimbursement at levels that harm our products' competitiveness or leads to lower prices for those products, will have a material negative effect on our ability to sustain profitability. in certain foreign countries, pricing, coverage, and level of reimbursement 43 table of contents of prescription drugs are subject to governmental control, and we and our collaborators may be unable to obtain coverage, pricing, and/or reimbursement on terms that are favorable to us or necessary for us or our collaborators to successfully commercialize our products in those countries. in some foreign countries, the proposed pricing for a drug must be approved before it may be lawfully marketed. the requirements governing drug pricing and reimbursement vary widely from country to country, and may take into account the clinical effectiveness, cost, and service impact of existing, new, and emerging drugs and treatments. for example, the eu provides options for its member states to restrict the range of medicinal products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices of medicinal products for human use. a member state may approve a specific price for the medicinal product or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the medicinal product on the market. our results of operations may suffer if we or our collaborators are unable to market our products in foreign countries or if coverage and reimbursement for our products in foreign countries is limited or delayed. we are dependent upon a small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of or significant reduction in sales to these customers would adversely affect our results of operations. we sell eylea in the united states to several distributors and specialty pharmacies. under this distribution model, the distributors and specialty pharmacies generally take physical delivery of product and generally sell the product directly to healthcare providers. for the year ended december 31, 2016 , product sales to three customers accounted on a combined basis for 99% of our total gross product revenue. we expect this significant customer concentration to continue for the foreseeable future. our ability to generate and grow sales of eylea will depend, in part, on the extent to which our distributors and specialty pharmacies are able to provide adequate distribution of eylea to healthcare providers. although we believe we can find additional distributors, if necessary, our revenue during any period of disruption could suffer and we might incur additional costs. in addition, these customers are responsible for a significant portion of our net trade accounts receivable balances. the loss of any large customer, a significant reduction in sales we make to them, any cancellation of orders they have made with us, or any failure to pay for the products we have shipped to them could adversely affect our results of operations. if we need to establish commercial capabilities outside the united states and are unable to do so, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be adversely affected. we have limited commercial capabilities outside the united states and do not currently have an organization for the sales, marketing, and distribution of marketed products outside the united states. there may be circumstances in which we need to establish commercial capabilities outside the united states, including because we decide to exercise our option to co-promote a product outside the united states or commercialize a particular product independently; we are unable to find an appropriate collaborator; or our existing collaborator decides not to opt in, decides to opt out, or breaches its obligations to us with respect to a particular product. in order to commercialize any products outside the united states, we must build our sales, marketing, distribution, managerial, and other non-technical capabilities in the relevant markets or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services, which would likely be expensive and time consuming and could delay product launch in one or more markets outside the united states. we cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully develop commercial capabilities outside the united states within an acceptable time frame or at all. these and other difficulties relating to commercializing our products outside the united states may severely harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. for additional risks relating to commercialization of eylea and praluent outside the united states, see also "risks related to commercialization of eylea - we rely on our collaboration with bayer for commercializing eylea " and "risks related to commercialization of praluent - we rely on our antibody collaboration with sanofi for commercializing praluent ," respectively. regulatory and litigation risks if the testing or use of our products harms people, or is perceived to harm them even when such harm is unrelated to our products, we could be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims. the testing, manufacturing, marketing, and sale of drugs for use in people expose us to product liability risk. any informed consent or waivers obtained from people who enroll in our clinical trials may not protect us from liability or the cost of litigation. we may also be subject to claims by patients who use our approved products, or our product candidates if those product candidates receive regulatory approval and become commercially available, that they have been injured by a side effect associated with the drug. even in a circumstance in which we do not believe that an adverse event is related to our products or product candidates, the related investigation may be time consuming or inconclusive and may have a negative impact on our reputation or business. we may face product liability claims and be found responsible even if injury arises from the acts or omissions of third parties who provide fill/finish or other services. to the extent we maintain product liability insurance in relevant periods, such insurance may not cover all potential liabilities or may not completely cover any liability arising from any such litigation. moreover, in the future we may not have access to liability insurance or be able to maintain our insurance on acceptable terms. 44 table of contents if we market and sell approved products in a way that violates federal or state healthcare laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. the fda regulates the marketing and promotion of our products, which must comply with the food, drug, and cosmetic act and applicable fda implementing standards. the fda's review of promotional activities includes healthcare provider-directed and direct-to-consumer advertising as well as sales representatives' communications. the fda may take enforcement action for promoting unapproved uses of a product or other violations of its advertising laws and regulations. in addition to fda and related regulatory requirements, we are subject to health care "fraud and abuse" laws, such as the federal false claims act, the anti-kickback provisions of the federal social security act, and other state and federal laws and regulations. federal and state anti-kickback laws prohibit, among other things, payments or other remuneration to induce or reward someone to purchase, prescribe, endorse, or recommend a product that is reimbursed under federal or state healthcare programs. if we provide payments or other remuneration to a healthcare professional to induce the prescribing of our products, we could face liability under state and federal anti-kickback laws. federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, such as allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; reporting to pricing services inflated average wholesale prices that were then used by federal programs to set reimbursement rates; engaging in promotion for uses that the fda has not approved, known as off-label uses, that caused claims to be submitted to medicaid for non-covered off-label uses; and submitting inflated best price information to the medicaid rebate program. the majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payer. sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer's products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines, and imprisonment. even if it is determined that we have not violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which would harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the safe harbors, it is possible that some of our business activities could be challenged under one or more of such laws. as part of the ppaca, the federal government requires that pharmaceutical manufacturers record any "transfers of value" made to u.s. prescribers and certain other healthcare providers and teaching hospitals. information provided by companies is aggregated and posted annually on an "open payments" website, which is managed by cms, the agency responsible for implementing these disclosure requirements. we will need to continue to dedicate significant resources to comply with these requirements and to be prepared to comply with additional reporting obligations outside of the united states that may apply in the future. the ppaca also includes various provisions designed to strengthen fraud and abuse enforcement, such as increased funding for enforcement efforts and the lowering of the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback statute and criminal health care fraud statute such that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. in addition, several states have legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, file periodic reports with the state or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, and other activities. many of these requirements and standards are new or uncertain, and the penalties for failure to comply with these requirements may be unclear. if we are found not to be in full compliance with these laws, we could face enforcement actions, fines, and other penalties, and could receive adverse publicity, which would harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. additionally, access to such data by fraud-and-abuse investigators and industry critics may draw scrutiny to our collaborations with reported entities. risks from the improper conduct of employees, agents, contractors, or collaborators could adversely affect our reputation and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. we cannot ensure that our compliance controls, policies, and procedures will in every instance protect us from acts committed by our employees, agents, contractors, or collaborators that would violate the laws or regulations of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including, without limitation, healthcare, employment, foreign corrupt practices, trade restrictions and sanctions, environmental, competition, and patient privacy and other privacy laws and regulations. such improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations, and monetary and injunctive penalties, and could adversely impact our ability to conduct business, operating results, and reputation. 45 table of contents in particular, our business activities outside of the united states are subject to the foreign corrupt practices act, or fcpa, and similar anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws, regulations or rules of other countries in which we operate, including the u.k. bribery act. the fcpa generally prohibits offering, promising, giving, or authorizing others to give anything of value, either directly or indirectly, to a non-u.s. government official in order to influence official action, or otherwise obtain or retain business. the fcpa also requires public companies to make and keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect the transactions of the corporation and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls. our business is heavily regulated and therefore involves significant interaction with public officials, including officials of non-u.s. governments. additionally, in many other countries, the health care providers who prescribe pharmaceuticals are employed by their government, and the purchasers of pharmaceuticals are government entities; therefore, our dealings with these prescribers and purchasers are subject to regulation under the fcpa. recently the securities and exchange commission, or sec, and department of justice have increased their fcpa enforcement activities with respect to pharmaceutical companies. there is no certainty that all of our employees, agents, contractors, or collaborators, or those of our affiliates, will comply with all applicable laws and regulations, particularly given the high level of complexity of these laws. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, requirements to obtain export licenses, cessation of business activities in sanctioned countries, implementation of compliance programs, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business. any such violations could include prohibitions on our ability to offer our products in one or more countries and could materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. our operations may involve hazardous materials and are subject to environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations. compliance with these laws and regulations is costly, and we may incur substantial liability arising from our activities involving the use of hazardous materials. as a biopharmaceutical company with significant research and development and manufacturing operations, we are subject to extensive environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations, including those governing the use of hazardous materials. our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of chemicals, infectious agents (such as viruses, bacteria, and fungi), radioactive compounds, and other hazardous materials. the cost of compliance with environmental, health, and safety regulations is substantial. if an accident involving these materials or an environmental discharge were to occur, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, or face regulatory actions, which could exceed our resources or insurance coverage. our business is subject to increasingly complex corporate governance, public disclosure, and accounting requirements and regulations that could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. we are subject to changing rules and regulations of various federal and state governmental authorities as well as the stock exchange on which our common stock is listed. these entities, including the sec and the nasdaq stock market llc, have issued a significant number of new and increasingly complex requirements and regulations over the course of the last several years and continue to develop additional requirements and regulations in response to laws enacted by congress, including the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and, most recently, the dodd-frank wall street reform and protection act, or the dodd-frank act. there are significant corporate governance and executive compensation-related provisions in the dodd-frank act that expressly authorized or required the sec to adopt additional rules in these areas, a number of which have yet to be fully implemented. our efforts to comply with these requirements and regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, an increase in expenses and a diversion of management's time from other business activities. changes in laws and regulations affecting the healthcare industry could adversely affect our business. all aspects of our business, including research and development, manufacturing, marketing, pricing, sales, litigation, and intellectual property rights, are subject to extensive legislation and regulation. changes in applicable federal and state laws and agency regulations could have a materially negative impact on our business. these include: changes in the fda and foreign regulatory processes for new therapeutics that may delay or prevent the approval of any of our current or future product candidates; new laws, regulations, or judicial decisions related to healthcare availability or the payment for healthcare products and services, including prescription drugs, that would make it more difficult for us to market and sell products once they are approved by the fda or foreign regulatory agencies; changes in fda and foreign regulations that may require additional safety monitoring prior to or after the introduction of new products to market, which could materially increase our costs of doing business; and changes in fda and foreign cgmps that may make it more difficult and costly for us to maintain regulatory compliance and/or manufacture our marketed product and product candidates in accordance with cgmps. as described above, the ppaca and potential regulations thereunder easing the entry of competing follow-on biologics into the marketplace, other new legislation or implementation of existing statutory provisions on importation of lower-cost competing 46 table of contents drugs from other jurisdictions, and legislation on comparative effectiveness research are examples of previously enacted and possible future changes in laws that could adversely affect our business. the current u.s. administration and congress could carry out significant changes in legislation, regulation, and government policy (including with respect to the possible repeal of all or portions of the ppaca, possible changes in the existing treaty and trade relationships with other countries, and tax reform), as evidenced by statements and recent actions of the current president. while it is not possible to predict whether and when any such changes will occur, changes in the laws, regulations, and policies governing the development and approval of our product candidates and the commercialization, importation, and reimbursement of our products could adversely affect our business. risks associated with our operations outside of the united states could adversely affect our business. we have operations and conduct business outside the united states and we plan to expand these activities. consequently, we are, and will continue to be, subject to risks related to operating in foreign countries, which include: unfamiliar foreign laws or regulatory requirements or unexpected changes to those laws or requirements; other laws and regulatory requirements to which our business activities abroad are subject, such as the fcpa and the u.k. bribery act (discussed in greater detail above under " risks from the improper conduct of employees, agents, contractors, or collaborators could adversely affect our reputation and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition "); changes in the political or economic condition of a specific country or region; fluctuations in the value of foreign currency versus the u.s. dollar; our ability to deploy overseas funds in an efficient manner; tariffs, trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements, trade embargoes, and sanctions (including those administered by the office of foreign assets control of the u.s. department of the treasury), and other trade barriers; difficulties in attracting and retaining qualified personnel; and cultural differences in the conduct of business. for example, on june 23, 2016, the united kingdom held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the eu, commonly referred to as "brexit." as a result of the referendum, it is expected that the british government will begin negotiating the terms of the united kingdom's future relationship with the eu. we do not know to what extent brexit will impact the business and regulatory environment in the united kingdom, the rest of the eu, or other countries. changes impacting our ability to conduct business in the united kingdom or other eu countries, or changes to the regulatory regime applicable to our operations in those countries (such as with respect to the approval of our product candidates), may materially and adversely impact our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. we may incur additional tax liabilities related to our operations. we are subject to income tax in the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide tax liabilities, and our effective tax rate is derived from a combination of the applicable statutory rates in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. we record liabilities that involve significant management judgment for uncertain tax positions. the internal revenue service or other domestic or foreign taxing authorities may disagree with our interpretation of tax law as applied to the operations of regeneron and its subsidiaries or with the positions we may take with respect to particular tax issues on our tax returns. consequently, our reported effective tax rate and our after-tax cash flows may be materially and adversely affected by tax assessments or judgments in excess of accrued amounts we have estimated in preparing our financial statements. further, our effective tax rate may also be adversely affected by numerous other factors, including changes in the mix of our profitability from country to country and changes in tax laws and regulations. changes in tax laws of various jurisdictions in which we do business could also result from the base erosion and profits shifting, or beps, recommendations by the organization for economic co-operation and development. if these recommendations (or other changes in law) were adopted by the countries in which we do business, it could adversely affect our provision for income tax and our current rate. we face potential liability related to the privacy of health information we obtain from clinical trials sponsored by us or our collaborators, from research institutions and our collaborators, and directly from individuals. most health care providers, including research institutions from which we or our collaborators obtain patient health information, are subject to privacy and security regulations promulgated under the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, or hipaa, as amended by the health information technology for economic and clinical health act. for example, as part of our human genetics initiative, our wholly-owned subsidiary, regeneron genetics center llc, has entered into collaborations with research institutions, including the geisinger health system, which are subject to such regulations. regeneron is not currently classified as a covered entity or business associate under hipaa and thus is not subject to its requirements or penalties. however, any person may be prosecuted under hipaa's criminal provisions either directly or under aiding-and-abetting or conspiracy 47 table of contents principles. consequently, depending on the facts and circumstances, we could face substantial criminal penalties if we knowingly receive individually identifiable health information from a hipaa-covered health care provider or research institution that has not satisfied hipaa's requirements for disclosure of individually identifiable health information. in addition, we may maintain sensitive personally identifiable information, including health information, that we receive throughout the clinical trial process, in the course of our research collaborations, and directly from individuals (or their healthcare providers) who enroll in our patient assistance programs. as such, we may be subject to state laws requiring notification of affected individuals and state regulators in the event of a breach of personal information, which is a broader class of information than the health information protected by hipaa. our clinical trial programs and research collaborations outside the u.s. implicate international data protection laws, including the eu data protection directive and legislation of the eu member states implementing it. our activities outside the u.s. impose additional compliance requirements and generate additional risks of enforcement for noncompliance. failure by our collaborators to comply with the strict rules on the transfer of personal data outside of the eu into the u.s. may result in the imposition of criminal and administrative sanctions on such collaborators, which could adversely affect our business. furthermore, certain health privacy laws, data breach notification laws, consumer protection laws, and genetic testing laws may apply directly to our operations and/or those of our collaborators and may impose restrictions on our collection, use, and dissemination of individuals' health information. moreover, patients about whom we or our collaborators obtain health information, as well as the providers who share this information with us, may have statutory or contractual rights that limit our ability to use and disclose the information. we may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to ensure ongoing compliance with applicable privacy and data security laws. claims that we have violated individuals' privacy rights or breached our contractual obligations, even if we are not found liable, could be expensive and time-consuming to defend and could result in adverse publicity that could harm our business. if we or any collaborators fail to comply with applicable federal, state, or local regulatory requirements, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions that could affect our or any collaborators' ability to commercialize our products and could harm or prevent sales of any affected products that we are able to commercialize, or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing and marketing our products. any threatened or actual government enforcement action could also generate adverse publicity and require that we devote substantial resources that could otherwise be used in other aspects of our business. increasing use of social media could give rise to liability, breaches of data security, or reputational damage. we and our employees are increasingly utilizing social media tools as a means of communication both internally and externally. despite our efforts to monitor evolving social media communication guidelines and comply with applicable rules, there is risk that the use of social media by us or our employees to communicate about our products or business may cause us to be found in violation of applicable requirements. in addition, our employees may knowingly or inadvertently make use of social media in ways that may not comply with our social media policy or other legal or contractual requirements, which may give rise to liability, lead to the loss of trade secrets or other intellectual property, or result in public exposure of personal information of our employees, clinical trial patients, customers, and others. furthermore, negative posts or comments about us or our products in social media could seriously damage our reputation, brand image, and goodwill. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. risks related to our reliance on third parties if any of our collaborations with sanofi is terminated, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition, and our ability to discover, develop, manufacture, and commercialize our pipeline of product candidates in the time expected, or at all, would be materially harmed. we rely heavily on funding from sanofi to support certain antibody research and development programs, as well as our immuno-oncology research and development programs. sanofi has committed to reimburse us for up to (i) $130.0 million of the costs of our efforts to identify and validate drug discovery targets and pre-clinically develop fully human monoclonal antibodies against such targets under our antibody discovery agreement in 2017 and (ii) $825.0 million of the costs of our efforts to identify and validate potential immuno-oncology targets and develop fully-human therapeutic antibodies against such targets under the io discovery and development agreement over the term of the io discovery and development agreement. sanofi also initially funds almost all of the development expenses incurred in connection with the clinical development of product candidates (i) that sanofi elects to co-develop with us under our antibody collaboration and (ii) for which sanofi is the principal controlling party under our io collaboration. in addition, sanofi initially funds half of the development expenses incurred in connection with the clinical development of product candidates for which we are the principal controlling party under our io collaboration. we rely on sanofi to fund these activities. in addition, with respect to those antibodies that sanofi elects to co-develop with us under our antibody collaboration (such as praluent, sarilumab, and dupilumab) or for which sanofi is the principal controlling party under our io collaboration, we rely on sanofi to lead much of the clinical development efforts and assist with obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval. following regulatory approval, we also rely on sanofi to lead (i) the commercialization efforts to support all of the antibody products that are co-developed by sanofi and us under our antibody collaboration and (ii) the commercialization 48 table of contents efforts outside the unites states to support all products that are co-developed by sanofi and us under our io collaboration (as well as the commercialization efforts in the united states to support all products for which sanofi is the principal controlling party under our io collaboration). if sanofi does not elect to co-develop the product candidates that we discover or opts out of their development under our antibody collaboration or our io collaboration, unless we enter into a collaboration agreement with another party, we would be required to fund and oversee on our own the clinical trials, any regulatory responsibilities, and the ensuing commercialization efforts to support those antibody products. for example, sanofi has elected not to continue co-development of fasinumab, regn2222, and trevogrumab, and decided not to opt in to the evinacumab and other programs. in addition, after 2017, we will be required to fund our antibody discovery activities and the research and preclinical development activities of our drug candidates, as sanofi's funding obligations under the antibody discovery agreement will cease to continue except with regard to the programs for which sanofi has exercised its extension right. if sanofi terminates any of the collaborations with us or fails to comply with its payment obligations thereunder, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be materially harmed. we would be required to either expend substantially more resources than we have anticipated to support our research and development efforts, which could require us to seek additional funding that might not be available on favorable terms or at all, or materially cut back on such activities. if sanofi does not perform its obligations with respect to the product candidates that it elects to co-develop, our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize these product candidates will be significantly adversely affected. we have limited commercial capabilities outside the united states and would have to develop or outsource these capabilities for products commercialized under our antibody collaboration, such as praluent (see also "risks related to commercialization of products - if we need to establish commercial capabilities outside the united states and are unable to do so, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be adversely affected " above). termination of our antibody collaboration would create substantial new and additional risks to the successful development and commercialization of praluent, particularly outside the united states. if our collaboration with bayer for eylea is terminated, or bayer materially breaches its obligations thereunder, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition, and our ability to continue to develop eylea and commercialize eylea outside the united states in the time expected, or at all, would be materially harmed. we rely heavily on bayer to assist with the development, and particularly the commercialization outside the united states, of eylea. under our agreement with them, bayer is required to fund approximately half of the development expenses incurred by both companies in connection with the global eylea development program. as the eylea program continues, we will continue to rely on bayer to assist with funding the eylea development program, continue to lead the development of eylea outside the united states, obtain and maintain regulatory approval outside the united states, and provide all sales, marketing, and commercial support for the product outside the united states. in particular, bayer has responsibility for selling eylea outside the united states using its sales force and, in japan, in cooperation with santen pharmaceuticals co. ltd. pursuant to a co-promotion and distribution agreement with bayer's japanese affiliate. we cannot assure you that regulatory approvals will be received for eylea in additional indications outside the united states or that eylea will be successfully commercialized outside the united states. if bayer and, in japan, santen do not perform their obligations in a timely manner, or at all, our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize eylea outside the united states will be significantly adversely affected. bayer has the right to terminate its collaboration agreement with us at any time upon six or twelve months' advance notice, depending on the circumstances giving rise to termination. if bayer were to terminate its collaboration agreement with us, we would not have the resources or skills to replace those of our collaborator, which could require us to seek additional funding or another collaboration that might not be available on favorable terms or at all, and could cause significant delays in the development and/or commercialization of eylea outside the united states and result in substantial additional costs to us. we have limited commercial capabilities outside the united states and would have to develop or outsource these capabilities (see also "risks related to commercialization of products - if we need to establish commercial capabilities outside the united states and are unable to do so, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be adversely affected " above). termination of the bayer collaboration agreement would create substantial new and additional risks to the successful development and commercialization of eylea, particularly outside the united states. 49 table of contents our collaborators and service providers may fail to perform adequately in their efforts to support the development, manufacture, and commercialization of our drug candidates and current and future products. we depend upon third-party collaborators, including sanofi, bayer, and service providers such as cros, outside testing laboratories, clinical investigator sites, and third-party manufacturers, fill/finish, and product packagers and labelers, to assist us in the manufacture and preclinical and clinical development of our product candidates. we also depend, or will depend, on some of these third parties in connection with the commercialization of our marketed products and our late-stage product candidates and new indications for our marketed products if they are approved for marketing. if any of our existing collaborators or service providers breaches or terminates its agreement with us or does not perform its development or manufacturing services under an agreement in a timely manner or in compliance with applicable gmps, glps, or gcp standards, we could experience additional costs, delays, and difficulties in the manufacture or development of, or in obtaining approval by regulatory authorities for, or successfully commercializing our product candidates. we and our collaborators rely on third-party service providers to support the distribution of our marketed products and for many other related activities in connection with the commercialization of these marketed products. despite our or our collaborators' arrangements with them, these third parties may not perform adequately. if these service providers do not perform their services adequately, sales of our marketed products will suffer. risk related to employees we are dependent on our key personnel and if we cannot recruit and retain leaders in our research, development, manufacturing, and commercial organizations, our business will be harmed. we are highly dependent on certain of our executive officers, other key members of our senior management team, and our chairman. if we are not able to retain (or for any other reason lose the services of) any of these persons, our business may suffer. in particular, we depend on the services of p. roy vagelos, m.d., the chairman of our board of directors; leonard s. schleifer, m.d., ph.d., our president and chief executive officer; george d. yancopoulos, m.d., ph.d., our president and chief scientific officer; and neil stahl, ph.d., our executive vice president, research and development. as we continue to commercialize eylea and praluent and begin to commercialize other products assuming the receipt of required regulatory approvals, we are also highly dependent on the expertise and services of members of our senior management leading these commercialization efforts. there is intense competition in the biotechnology industry for qualified scientists and managerial personnel in the development, manufacture, and commercialization of drugs. we may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary to continue to advance our business and achieve our strategic objectives. information technology risks significant disruptions of information technology systems or breaches of data security could adversely affect our business. our business is increasingly dependent on critical, complex, and interdependent information technology systems, including internet-based systems, to support business processes as well as internal and external communications. the size and complexity of our computer systems make us potentially vulnerable to it system breakdowns, internal and external malicious intrusion, and computer viruses, which may result in the impairment of production and key business processes. we also have outsourced significant elements of our information technology infrastructure and operations to third parties, which may provide access to our confidential information to such third parties and may also make our systems vulnerable to service interruptions or to security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions by such third parties or others. in addition, our systems are potentially vulnerable to data security breaches - whether by employees or others - which may expose sensitive data to unauthorized persons. such data security breaches could lead to the loss of trade secrets or other intellectual property, result in demands for ransom or other forms of blackmail, or lead to the public exposure of personal information (including sensitive personal information) of our employees, clinical trial patients, customers, and others. such attacks are of ever-increasing levels of sophistication and are made by groups and individuals with a wide range of motives (including industrial espionage) and expertise, including by organized criminal groups, hacktivists, nation states, and others. as a company with an increasingly global presence, our systems are subject to frequent attacks. due to the nature of some of these attacks, there is a risk that an attack may remain undetected for a period of time. while we continue to make investments to improve the protection of data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent service interruptions or security breaches. such disruptions and breaches of security could result in legal proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, disruptions to our operations, and damage to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. 50 table of contents risks related to our financial results, liquidity, and need for additional financing if we cannot sustain profitability, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be materially harmed. beginning in 2012, we reported profitability; prior to that, we generally incurred net losses. if we cannot sustain profitability, we may be unable to continue our operations. in the absence of substantial revenue from the sale of products on an ongoing basis, including our sales of eylea, and our share of the profits from bayer's sales of eylea outside the united states, or from other sources, the amount, timing, nature, or source of which cannot be predicted, we may incur substantial losses again as we conduct our research and development activities, commercialize our approved products, and prepare for possible commercialization of our other product candidates and new indications of our marketed products. we may need additional funding in the future, which may not be available to us, and which may force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts. we expend substantial resources for research and development, including costs associated with clinical testing of our product candidates and new indications of our marketed products, the commercialization of products, and capital expenditures. we believe our existing capital resources and borrowing availability under our revolving credit facility, together with funds generated by current and anticipated eylea net product sales and funding we are entitled to receive under our collaboration agreements, will enable us to meet our anticipated operating needs for the foreseeable future. however, one or more of our collaboration agreements may terminate, our revenues may fall short of our projections or be delayed, or our expenses may increase, any of which could result in our capital being consumed significantly faster than anticipated. in addition, our expenses may increase for many reasons, including expenses in connection with the commercialization of eylea and praluent and the anticipated commercial launches of our late-stage product candidates, including sarilumab and dupilumab, and new indications for our marketed products, manufacturing scale-up, expenses related to clinical trials testing of antibody product candidates we are developing on our own (without a collaborator), and expenses for which we are responsible in accordance with the terms of our collaboration agreements. we cannot be certain that our existing capital resources and our current and anticipated revenues will be sufficient to meet our operating needs. we may require additional financing in the future and we may not be able to raise additional funds on acceptable terms or at all. for example, on december 30, 2016, we entered into a purchase agreement pursuant to which we have agreed to purchase our existing corporate headquarters and other rentable area consisting of approximately 150 acres of predominately office buildings and laboratory space located in the towns of mount pleasant and greenburgh, ny for a gross purchase price of $720.0 million, subject to certain customary adjustments. the closing of the purchase is anticipated in the first quarter of 2017. our obligation to consummate the purchase is not subject to a financing condition. while we have engaged a financing provider to use its best efforts to arrange a financing in connection with the contemplated purchase, there is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain such financing on the agreed terms or at all. our ability to obtain additional financing could be adversely affected if there is a significant decline in the demand for our products or other significantly unfavorable changes in economic conditions. volatility in the financial markets could increase borrowing costs or affect our ability to raise capital. if additional financing is necessary and we obtain it through the sale of equity securities, such sales will likely be dilutive to our shareholders. debt financing arrangements may require us to pledge certain assets or enter into covenants that would restrict our business activities or our ability to incur further indebtedness and may be at interest rates and contain other terms that are not favorable to our shareholders. should we require and be unable to raise sufficient funds (i) to complete the development of our product candidates, (ii) to successfully commercialize our late-stage product candidates or new indications for our marketed products if they obtain regulatory approval, and (iii) to continue our manufacturing and marketing of eylea, we may face delay, reduction, or elimination of our research and development or preclinical or clinical programs and our commercialization activities, which would significantly limit our potential to generate revenue. changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. our revenue from outside of the united states will increase as our products, whether marketed by us or our collaborators, gain marketing approval in such jurisdictions. our primary foreign currency exposure relates to movements in the japanese yen, euro, british pound sterling, and australian dollar. if the u.s. dollar weakens against a specific foreign currency, our revenues will increase, having a positive impact on net income, but our overall expenses will increase, having a negative impact. likewise, if the u.s. dollar strengthens against a specific foreign currency, our revenues will decrease, having a negative impact on net income, but our overall expenses will decrease, having a positive impact. therefore, significant changes in foreign exchange rates can impact our operating results and the financial condition of our company. our investments are subject to risks and other external factors that may result in losses or affect the liquidity of these investments. as of december 31, 2016 , we had $535.2 million in cash and cash equivalents and $1,367.7 million in marketable securities (including $49.2 million in equity securities). our investments consist primarily of fixed-income securities, including investment- 51 table of contents grade corporate bonds. these fixed-income investments are subject to external factors that may adversely affect their market value or liquidity, such as interest rate, liquidity, market, and issuer credit risks, including actual or anticipated changes in credit ratings. the equity securities we hold may experience significant volatility and may decline in value or become worthless if the issuer experiences an adverse development. furthermore, our equity investments could be subject to dilution (and decline in value) as a result of the issuance of additional equity interests. if any of our investments suffer market price declines that are other than temporary, their value could be impaired, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. risks related to our common stock our stock price is extremely volatile. there has been significant volatility in our stock price and generally in the market prices of biotechnology companies' securities. various factors and events may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. these factors include, by way of example: fluctuations in our operating results, in particular net product sales of eylea; if any of our product candidates or our new indications for our marketed products receive regulatory approval, net product sales of, and profits from, these product candidates and new indications; market acceptance of, and fluctuations in market share for, our marketed products, especially eylea and praluent; whether our net products sales and net profits underperform, meet, or exceed the expectations of investors or analysts; announcement of actions by the fda or foreign regulatory authorities or their respective advisory committees regarding our, or our collaborators', or our competitors', currently pending or future application(s) for regulatory approval of product candidate(s) or new indications for marketed products; announcement of submission of an application for regulatory approval of one or more of our, or our competitors', product candidates or new indications for marketed products; progress, delays, or results in clinical trials of our or our competitors' product candidates or new indications for marketed products; announcement of technological innovations or product candidates by us or competitors; claims by others that our products or technologies infringe their patents; challenges by others to our patents in the european patent office and in the u.s. patent and trademark office; public concern as to the safety or effectiveness of any of our marketed products or product candidates or new indications for our marketed products; pricing or reimbursement actions, decisions, or recommendations by government authorities, insurers, or other organizations (such as health maintenance organizations and pharmacy benefit management companies) affecting the coverage, reimbursement, or use of any of our marketed products or competitors' products; our ability to raise additional capital as needed on favorable terms; developments in our relationships with collaborators or key customers; developments in the biotechnology industry or in government regulation of healthcare, including those relating to compounding; large sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors, or significant shareholders; changes in tax rates, laws, or interpretation of tax laws; arrivals and departures of key personnel; general market conditions; trading activity that results from the rebalancing of stock indices in which our common stock is included, or the inclusion or exclusion of our common stock from such indices; other factors identified in these "risk factors"; and the perception by the investment community or our shareholders of any of the foregoing factors. the trading price of our common stock has been, and could continue to be, subject to wide fluctuations in response to these and other factors, including the sale or attempted sale of a large amount of our common stock in the market. as discussed in greater detail under " future sales of our common stock by our significant shareholders or us may depress our stock price and impair our ability to raise funds in new share offerings " below, a large percentage of our common stock is owned by a small number of our principal shareholders, and our largest shareholder, sanofi, has been maintaining its percentage ownership of our common stock but has previously publicly disclosed that it may opportunistically increase its percentage ownership of our common stock. as a result, the public float of our common stock (i.e., the portion of our common stock held by public investors, as opposed to the common stock held by our directors, officers, and principal shareholders) is low relative to many large public companies. as our common stock is less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership, its trading price may fluctuate significantly more than the stock market as a whole. these factors may exacerbate the volatility in the trading price of our common stock and may negatively impact your ability to liquidate your investment in regeneron at the time you wish at a price you consider satisfactory. broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the market price of our common stock. in 52 table of contents the past, securities class action litigation has often been initiated against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. this type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources, and could also require us to make substantial payments to satisfy judgments or to settle litigation, which may harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. future sales of our common stock by our significant shareholders or us may depress our stock price and impair our ability to raise funds in new share offerings. a small number of our shareholders beneficially own a substantial amount of our common stock. as of december 31, 2016 , our five largest shareholders plus dr. schleifer, our chief executive officer, beneficially owned approximately 52.0% of our outstanding shares of common stock, assuming, in the case of our chief executive officer, the conversion of his class a stock into common stock and the exercise of all options held by him which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2016 . as of december 31, 2016 , sanofi beneficially owned 23,418,396 shares of our common stock, representing approximately 22.5% of the shares of common stock then outstanding. under our january 2014 amended and restated investor agreement with sanofi, sanofi has three demand rights to require us to use all reasonable efforts to conduct a registered underwritten offering with respect to shares of our common stock held by sanofi from time to time; however, shares of our common stock held by sanofi from time to time may not be sold until the later of (i) december 20, 2020 and (ii) the expiration of our antibody discovery agreement with sanofi relating to our antibody collaboration (as amended) if the agreement is extended beyond december 20, 2020. these restrictions on dispositions are subject to earlier termination upon the occurrence of certain events, such as the consummation of a change-of-control transaction involving us or a dissolution or liquidation of our company. in february 2013, we received from sanofi a notification under the hart-scott-rodino antitrust improvements act of 1976 that it intends to acquire additional common stock through open market purchases and direct purchases from shareholders. in december 2015, sanofi disclosed in an amendment to its schedule 13d filed with the sec its intention to purchase (subject to market conditions, including the price and availability of shares of our common stock, and legal and regulatory requirements) additional shares of our common stock to maintain and opportunistically increase its beneficial ownership on a percentage basis up to the maximum allowed under the "standstill" provisions of our amended and restated investor agreement with sanofi, or 30% of our class a stock and common stock (taken together). if sanofi, our other significant shareholders, or we sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or there is a perception that such sales may occur, the market price of our common stock could fall. sales of common stock by our significant shareholders, including sanofi, also might make it more difficult for us to raise funds by selling equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. our existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval and over our management. holders of class a stock, who are generally the shareholders who purchased their stock from us before our initial public offering, are entitled to ten votes per share, while holders of common stock are entitled to one vote per share. as of december 31, 2016 , holders of class a stock held 15.5% of the combined voting power of all shares of common stock and class a stock then outstanding. these shareholders, if acting together, would be in a position to significantly influence the election of our directors and the vote on certain corporate transactions that require majority or supermajority approval of the combined classes, including mergers and other business combinations. this may result in our taking corporate actions that other shareholders may not consider to be in their best interest and may affect the price of our common stock. as of december 31, 2016 : our current executive officers and directors beneficially owned 10.8% of our outstanding shares of common stock, assuming conversion of their class a stock into common stock and the exercise of all options held by such persons which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2016 , and 22.0% of the combined voting power of our outstanding shares of common stock and class a stock, assuming the exercise of all options held by such persons which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2016 ; and our five largest shareholders plus dr. schleifer, our chief executive officer, beneficially owned approximately 52.0% of our outstanding shares of common stock, assuming, in the case of our chief executive officer, the conversion of his class a stock into common stock and the exercise of all options held by him which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2016 . in addition, these five shareholders plus our chief executive officer held approximately 57.2% of the combined voting power of our outstanding shares of common stock and class a stock, assuming the exercise of all options held by our chief executive officer which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2016 . pursuant to the january 2014 amended and restated investor agreement with us, sanofi has agreed to vote its shares as recommended by our board of directors, except that it may elect to vote proportionally with the votes cast by all of our other shareholders with respect to certain change-of-control transactions and to vote in its sole discretion with respect to liquidation or dissolution of our company, stock issuances equal to or exceeding 20% of the outstanding shares or voting rights of common stock and class a stock (taken together), and new equity compensation plans or amendments if not materially consistent with our historical equity compensation practices. 53 table of contents in addition, upon sanofi reaching 20% ownership of our outstanding shares of class a stock and common stock (taken together), we are required under the amended and restated investor agreement to appoint an individual agreed upon by us and sanofi to our board of directors. subject to certain exceptions, we are required to use our reasonable efforts (including recommending that our shareholders vote in favor) to cause the election of this designee at our annual shareholder meetings for so long as sanofi maintains an equity interest in us that is the lower of (i) the highest percentage ownership sanofi attains following its acquisition of 20% of our outstanding shares of class a stock and common stock (taken together) and (ii) 25% of our outstanding shares of class a stock and common stock (taken together). this designee is required to be "independent" of our company, as determined under nasdaq rules, and not to be a current or former officer, director, employee, or paid consultant of sanofi. in april 2014, sanofi notified us that it had reached the 20% ownership threshold and designated an initial director designee. following the election and subsequent resignation of the initial designee, in january 2017, the board of directors elected n. anthony coles, m.d. as a successor sanofi designee. dr. coles has been elected as a class ii director with a term expiring at the 2017 annual shareholder meeting. the anti-takeover effects of provisions of our charter, by-laws, and of new york corporate law, as well as the contractual provisions in our investor and collaboration agreements and certain provisions of our compensation plans and agreements, could deter, delay, or prevent an acquisition or other "change in control" of us and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. our certificate of incorporation, our by-laws, and the new york business corporation law contain various provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company or our management that shareholders may consider favorable or beneficial. some of these provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. these provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. these provisions include: authorization to issue "blank check" preferred stock, which is preferred stock that can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior shareholder approval, with rights senior to those of our common stock and class a stock; a staggered board of directors, so that it would take three successive annual shareholder meetings to replace all of our directors; a requirement that removal of directors may only be effected for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of at least eighty percent (80%) of the outstanding shares entitled to vote for directors, as well as a requirement that any vacancy on the board of directors may be filled only by the remaining directors; a provision whereby any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of shareholders may be taken without a meeting, only if, prior to such action, all of our shareholders consent, the effect of which is to require that shareholder action may only be taken at a duly convened meeting; a requirement that any shareholder seeking to bring business before an annual meeting of shareholders must provide timely notice of this intention in writing and meet various other requirements; and under the new york business corporation law, in addition to certain restrictions which may apply to "business combinations" involving our company and an "interested shareholder," a plan of merger or consolidation of our company must be approved by two-thirds of the votes of all outstanding shares entitled to vote thereon. see the risk factor above captioned " our existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval and over our management. " pursuant to the january 2014 amended and restated investor agreement between us and sanofi, sanofi is bound by certain "standstill" provisions, which contractually prohibit sanofi from seeking to directly or indirectly exert control of our company or acquiring more than 30% of our class a stock and common stock (taken together). this prohibition will remain in place until the earliest of (i) the later of the fifth anniversaries of the expiration or earlier termination of our license and collaboration agreement with sanofi relating to our antibody collaboration or our zaltrap collaboration agreement with sanofi, each as amended; (ii) our announcement recommending acceptance by our shareholders of a tender offer or exchange offer that, if consummated, would constitute a change of control involving us; (iii) the public announcement of any definitive agreement providing for a change of control involving us; (iv) the date of any issuance of shares of common stock by us that would result in another party having more than 10% of the voting power of our outstanding class a stock and common stock (taken together) unless such party enters into a standstill agreement containing certain terms substantially similar to the standstill obligations of sanofi; or (v) other specified events, such as a liquidation or dissolution of our company. similarly, under our 2014 pdgfr-beta license and collaboration agreement and our 2016 ang2 license and collaboration agreement with bayer, bayer is bound by certain "standstill" provisions, which contractually prohibit bayer from seeking to influence the control of our company or acquiring more than 20% of our outstanding class a stock and common stock (taken together). with respect to each of these agreements, this prohibition will remain in place until the earliest of (i) the fifth anniversary of the expiration or earlier termination of the agreement; (ii) the public announcement of a tender offer, exchange offer, or other proposal that would constitute a change of control of our company; (iii) the acquisition by a third party or a group of third parties 54 table of contents (other than by dr. schleifer or his affiliates) of more than 20% of the voting power of our outstanding class a stock and common stock (taken together); (iv) the issuance of shares of capital stock to another party (other than to an underwriter in a public offering) that would result in such party's having more than 7% of the voting power of our outstanding class a stock and common stock (taken together) unless such third party enters into a standstill agreement containing terms substantially similar to the standstill obligations of bayer; or (v) other specified events, such as a liquidation or dissolution of our company. further, pursuant to the 2016 collaboration agreement between us and teva, teva and its affiliates are bound by certain "standstill" provisions, which contractually prohibit them from seeking to directly or indirectly exert control of our company or acquiring more than 5% of our class a stock and common stock (taken together). this prohibition will remain in place until the earliest of (i) the fifth anniversary of the expiration or earlier termination of the agreement; (ii) our announcement recommending acceptance by our shareholders of a tender offer or exchange offer that, if consummated, would constitute a change of control involving us; (iii) the public announcement of any definitive agreement providing for a change of control involving us; (iv) the acquisition by a third party or a group of third parties of more than 30% of the voting power of our outstanding class a stock and common stock (taken together); (v) the date of any issuance of shares of capital stock by us that would result in another party having more than 10% of the voting power of our outstanding class a stock and common stock (taken together) unless such party enters into a standstill agreement containing certain terms substantially similar to the standstill obligations of teva; or (vi) other specified events, such as a liquidation or dissolution of our company. in addition, our change in control severance plan and the employment agreement with our chief executive officer, each as amended and restated, provide for severance benefits in the event of termination as a result of a change in control of our company. also, stock options issued under our second amended and restated 2000 long-term incentive plan and our 2014 long-term incentive plan may become fully vested in connection with a "change in control" of our company, as defined in the plans. further, under the amended and restated investor agreement between us and sanofi, we are required under certain circumstances to appoint an individual agreed upon by us and sanofi to our board of directors and to use our reasonable efforts to cause the election of this designee at our annual shareholder meetings for so long as sanofi maintains a specified equity interest in us. as described above under " our existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval and over our management ," a sanofi designee has in the past served, and a successor sanofi designee currently serves, on our board of directors. these contractual provisions may also have the effect of deterring, delaying, or preventing an acquisition or other change in control. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 83 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our earnings and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to changes in interest rates, principally in connection with our investments in marketable securities, which consist primarily of corporate bonds, direct obligations of the u.s. government and its agencies and other debt securities guaranteed by the u.s. government, and municipal bonds. we do not believe we are materially exposed to changes in interest rates. we do not currently use interest rate derivative instruments to manage exposure to interest rate changes. we estimate that a 100 basis point, or 1%, unfavorable change in interest rates would have resulted in approximately a $20.9 million and $11.7 million decrease in the fair value of our investment portfolio as of december 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. credit quality risk we have an investment policy that includes guidelines on acceptable investment securities, minimum credit quality, maturity parameters, and concentration and diversification. nonetheless, deterioration of the credit quality of an investment security subsequent to purchase may subject us to the risk of not being able to recover the full principal value of the security. during 2016, we recorded an other-than-temporary impairment charge of $9.8 million related to our investment in an equity security (refer to item 7. "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - results of operations - other income (expense) " above for further details). in 2015 and 2014, we recorded no charges for other-than-temporary impairments of our marketable securities. 83 table of contents we are also subject to credit risk in connection with accounts receivable from our product sales of eylea and arcalyst. these accounts receivable are due from several distributors and specialty pharmacies, who are our customers. we have contractual payment terms with each of our customers, and we monitor our customers' financial performance and credit worthiness so that we can properly assess and respond to any changes in their credit profile. in addition, we may insure a portion of our accounts receivables within our overall risk management practices. during 2016, 2015, and 2014, we did not recognize any charges for write-offs of accounts receivable related to our marketed products. as of december 31, 2016 , three customers accounted on a combined basis for 99% of our net trade accounts receivables. as of december 31, 2015, two customers accounted on a combined basis for 94% of our net trade accounts receivables. foreign exchange risk as discussed further above, bayer markets eylea outside the united states and sanofi markets praluent worldwide, and we share in profits and losses with these collaborators from commercialization of products (including the receipt of a percentage of eylea sales in japan). in addition, pursuant to the applicable terms of the agreements with our collaborators, we also share in certain worldwide development expenses incurred by our collaborators. we also incur worldwide development expenses for clinical products we are developing independently. therefore, significant changes in foreign exchange rates of the countries outside the united states where our product is sold or where development expenses are incurred by us or our collaborators can impact our operating results and financial condition. as sales outside the united states continue to grow, and as we expand our international operations, we will continue to assess potential steps, including foreign currency hedging and other strategies, to mitigate our foreign exchange risk.risk factors 30 "risk factors," which could cause actual events and results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. we do not undertake any obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. general regeneron pharmaceuticals, inc. is a fully integrated biotechnology company that discovers, invents, develops, manufactures, and commercializes medicines for the treatment of serious diseases. our commercialized medicines and product candidates in development are designed to help patients with eye disease, allergic and inflammatory diseases, heart disease, pain, cancer, and infectious and other serious medical conditions. our significant 2017 business highlights include: eylea (aflibercept) injection, which is approved by the u.s. food and drug administration (fda), european union (eu), japan, and certain other countries for use in retinal indications, delivered net sales growth of 11.4% over 2016 in the united states and net sales growth of 18.9% outside the united states. in december 2017, the supplemental biologics license application (sbla) for a 12-week dosing interval of eylea in patients with neovascular age-related macular degeneration (wet amd) was filed with the fda, with a target action date of august 11, 2018. a phase 3 study for the treatment of non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy (npdr) in patients without diabetic macular edema (dme) completed enrollment. dupixent (dupilumab) for the treatment of adults with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis received regulatory approval in the united states and eu. we also reported positive results from two additional pivotal phase 3 studies of dupilumab for the treatment of asthma, and recently submitted an sbla with the fda. we reported positive results in the phase 2 study in eosinophilic esophagitis (eoe). phase 3 studies in patients (12-17 years of age and 6-11 years of age) with atopic dermatitis and pediatric patients (6-11 years of age) with asthma were initiated. 2 table of contents the phase 3 cardiovascular outcomes study of praluent has recently been completed, and a phase 3 study for the treatment of homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (hofh) was initiated. the u.s. court of appeals for the federal circuit ordered a new trial on the issues of written description and enablement and vacated the permanent injunction in the ongoing pcsk9 litigation. the sbla for use of praluent with apheresis was filed with the fda, with a target action date of august 24, 2018. kevzara for the treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis (ra) received regulatory approval in the united states, eu, and japan. we reported positive top-line results from a pivotal phase 2 study of cemiplimab in advanced cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cscc). we have commenced a rolling bla submission to the fda and expect to complete the submission in the first quarter of 2018. the fda granted breakthrough therapy designation to cemiplimab for the treatment of adults with metastatic cscc and adults with locally advanced and unresectable cscc. a phase 3 study as a first-line treatment for non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc) and a phase 3 study in cervical cancer were initiated. a potentially pivotal phase 2 study in basal cell carcinoma (bcc) was also initiated. phase 3 efficacy studies of fasinumab in osteoarthritis of the knee or hip were initiated, while the phase 3 long-term safety study in osteoarthritis continued patient enrollment. a phase 3 study in chronic low back pain in patients with concomitant osteoarthritis of the knee and hip was also initiated. the fda granted breakthrough therapy designation for evinacumab for the treatment of hypercholesterolemia in patients with hofh. we advanced one new product candidate (regn3918, an antibody to complement 5 (c5)) into phase 1 clinical development. we entered into significant new research and development license and collaboration arrangements, including agreements with the biomedical advanced research development authority (barda) of the u.s. department of health and human services (hhs) to develop new treatments to combat infectious diseases; decibel therapeutics, inc. to discover and develop new potential therapeutics to protect, repair, and restore hearing; and isa pharmaceuticals b.v. to develop isa101, an immunotherapy targeting human papillomavirus type 16 (hpv16)-induced cancer, in combination with cemiplimab. from a growth perspective, we hired our 6,000 th employee, completed a new lease financing for our laboratory and office facilities in tarrytown, new york, continued to expand our bulk drug product manufacturing operations in rensselaer, new york, and continued build-out and validation activities at our limerick, ireland commercial manufacturing facility. we were named the top employer in the global biotech and pharmaceutical industry by science magazine. we have been ranked first for five of the past seven years, with second-place rankings in 2015 and 2011. our total revenues were $5,872.2 million in 2017, compared to $4,860.4 million in 2016 and $4,103.7 million in 2015. our net income was $1,198.5 million , or $10.34 per diluted share, in 2017, compared to $895.5 million , or $7.70 per diluted share, in 2016, and $636.1 million , or $5.52 per diluted share, in 2015. refer to part ii, item 7. "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - results of operations" below for further details of our financial results, including amounts incurred related to research and development activities. we currently have six products that have received marketing approval: eylea (aflibercept) injection , known in the scientific literature as vegf trap-eye, is available in the united states, eu, japan, and certain other countries outside the united states for the treatment of wet amd, dme, macular edema following retinal vein occlusion (rvo), which includes macular edema following central retinal vein occlusion (crvo) and macular edema following branch retinal vein occlusion (brvo). eylea is also available in the eu, japan, and certain other countries outside the united states for the treatment of myopic choroidal neovascularization (mcnv) and in the united states for the treatment of diabetic retinopathy in patients with dme. we are collaborating with bayer on the global development and commercialization of eylea outside the united states. bayer markets, and records revenue from sales of eylea outside the united states, where, for countries other than japan, the companies share equally the profits and losses from sales of eylea. in japan, we are entitled to receive a percentage of the sales of eylea. we maintain exclusive rights to eylea in the united states and are entitled to all profits from such sales. dupixent (dupilumab) injection. on march 28, 2017, the fda approved dupixent for the treatment of adult patients with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis whose disease is not adequately controlled with topical prescription therapies or when those therapies are not advisable. the launch of dupixent commenced in march following the fda approval. in september 2017, the european commission granted marketing authorization for dupixent for use in adults with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis who are candidates for systemic therapy and in january 2018, the ministry of health, labor and welfare (mhlw) in japan approved dupixent for the treatment of atopic dermatitis in adults not adequately controlled with existing therapies. 3 table of contents we are collaborating with sanofi on the global development and commercialization of dupixent. sanofi records product sales for dupixent, and we and sanofi share profits and losses from sales of dupixent. we have exercised our option to co-promote dupixent in the united states and thus far have not exercised any of our options to co-promote dupixent outside the united states. praluent (alirocumab) injection is available in the united states where it is indicated as an adjunct to diet and maximally tolerated statin therapy for the treatment of adults with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (hefh) or clinical atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ascvd), who require additional lowering of high low-density lipoprotein (ldl) cholesterol. praluent is also available in certain european countries and in japan. in april 2017, the fda approved the sbla for a once-monthly (every four weeks), 300 mg dose of praluent. in july 2017, the fda approved the sbla for praluent's time out of refrigeration, which was increased from 24 hours to 30 days. the effect of praluent on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality has not been determined. sanofi records product sales for praluent, and we and sanofi share profits and losses from sales of praluent. we have exercised our option to co-promote praluent in the united states and thus far have not exercised any of our options to co-promote praluent outside the united states. see note 17 to our consolidated financial statements for information regarding the patent infringement proceedings relating to praluent, which may impact praluent's commercial availability in certain jurisdictions. kevzara (sarilumab) solution for subcutaneous injection . in january 2017, health canada approved kevzara for the treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis who have an inadequate response to or intolerance to one or more biologic or non-biologic disease modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (dmards). this was the first approval of kevzara worldwide. on may 22, 2017, the fda approved kevzara for the treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis who have an inadequate response or intolerance to one or more dmards. in june 2017, the european commission granted marketing authorization for kevzara in combination with methotrexate (mtx) for the treatment of moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis in adult patients who have responded inadequately to, or who are intolerant to one or more dmards; kevzara may be used as monotherapy in case of intolerance to mtx or when treatment with mtx is inappropriate. in september 2017, the mhlw in japan approved kevzara for the treatment of adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis who have had an inadequate response to conventional treatments. sanofi records product sales for kevzara, and we and sanofi share profits and losses from sales of kevzara. we have exercised our option to co-promote kevzara in the united states and thus far have not exercised any of our options to co-promote kevzara outside the united states. arcalyst (rilonacept) injection for subcutaneous use is available in the united states for the treatment of cryopyrin-associated periodic syndromes (caps), including familial cold auto-inflammatory syndrome (fcas) and muckle-wells syndrome (mws), in adults and children 12 years and older. caps are a group of rare, inherited, auto-inflammatory conditions characterized by life-long, recurrent symptoms of rash, fever/chills, joint pain, eye redness/pain, and fatigue. intermittent, disruptive exacerbations or flares can be triggered at any time by exposure to cooling temperatures, stress, exercise, or other unknown stimuli. zaltrap (ziv-aflibercept) injection for intravenous infusion , known in the scientific literature as vegf trap, is available in the united states, eu, and certain other countries for treatment, in combination with 5-fluorouracil, leucovorin, irinotecan (folfiri), of patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (mcrc) that is resistant to or has progressed following an oxaliplatin-containing regimen. pursuant to a 2015 amended and restated zaltrap agreement, sanofi is solely responsible for the development and commercialization of zaltrap, and sanofi pays us a percentage of aggregate net sales of zaltrap. 4 table of contents marketed products net product sales of regeneron-discovered products (1) year ended december 31, (in millions) 2017 2016 2015 eylea in the united states $ 3,701.9 $ 3,323.1 $ 2,676.0 arcalyst 16.5 15.3 13.5 net product sales recorded by regeneron $ 3,718.4 $ 3,338.4 $ 2,689.5 eylea outside of the united states (1) $ 2,226.9 $ 1,872.3 $ 1,413.3 eylea global $ 5,928.8 $ 5,195.4 $ 4,089.3 global net product sales recorded by sanofi (1) : praluent in the united states $ 131.4 $ 94.4 $ 9.5 praluent outside of the united states 63.3 21.9 1.0 praluent global 194.7 116.3 10.5 dupixent 256.5 kevzara 13.3 zaltrap 83.8 72.3 85.7 net product sales recorded by sanofi $ 548.3 $ 188.6 $ 96.2 (1) as described in the "general" section above, bayer records net product sales of eylea outside the united states and sanofi records global net product sales of praluent, dupixent, kevzara, and zaltrap. programs in clinical development all 15 of our product candidates in clinical development were discovered in our research laboratories and are summarized below. we used our velocimmune technology to generate each of the antibodies in the table below. there are numerous uncertainties associated with drug development, including uncertainties related to safety and efficacy data from each phase of drug development (including any post-approval studies), uncertainties related to the enrollment and performance of clinical trials, changes in regulatory requirements, and changes in the competitive landscape affecting a product candidate. refer to part i, item 1a, "risk factors" for a description of these and other risks and uncertainties that may affect our clinical programs. 5 table of contents phase 1 phase 2 phase 3 cemiplimab (regn2810) (a) dupilumab (a) eylea antibody to programmed cell death protein 1 (pd-1) (h) antibody to the interleukin-4 receptor (il-4r) alpha subunit npdr in patients without dme solid tumors and advanced hematologic malignancies eoe (c) dupilumab (a) regn3767 (a) sarilumab (a) atopic dermatitis in adolescents and pediatrics (6 17 years of age) antibody to lymphocyte activation gene 3 (lag-3) protein antibody to the interleukin-6 receptor (il-6r) atopic dermatitis in pediatrics (6 months 5 years of age) (phase 2/3) advanced malignancies (administered alone or in combination with cemiplimab) polyarticular-course juvenile idiopathic arthritis (pcjia) asthma in adults and adolescents asthma in pediatrics (6 11 years of age) regn1979 cemiplimab (a) nasal polyps bispecific antibody against cd20 and cd3 metastatic or locally advanced and unresectable cscc (pivotal study) (d) praluent (a) certain b-cell malignancies (monotherapy and in combination cemiplimab) (c) bcc (potentially pivotal study) antibody to pcsk9 evinacumab (regn1500) (f) ldl cholesterol reduction and prevention of cardiovascular events regn3470-3471-3479 (g) antibody to angiopoietin-like protein 3 (angptl3) hofh (c) multi-antibody therapy to ebola virus hofh (c)(d) cemiplimab (a) ebola virus infection (c) refractory hypercholesterolemia (both hefh and non-fh) first-line treatment for nsclc regn1908-1909 (f) cervical cancer multi-antibody therapy to feld1 fasinumab (regn475) (b)(f) allergic disease osteoarthritis of knee and hip regn3500 (a) chronic low back pain in patients with concomitant osteoarthritis of the knee and hip antibody to interleukin-33 (il-33). studied as monotherapy and in combination with dupilumab. evinacumab (regn1500) (f) asthma hofh (c)(d) trevogrumab (regn1033) (f) antibody to myostatin (gdf8) muscle wasting diseases (in combination with regn2477) regn2477 (f) antibody to activin a fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva (fop) (c)(e) muscle-wasting diseases (in combination with trevogrumab) regn3918 (f) antibody to complement 5 (c5) paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (pnh) 6 table of contents (a) in collaboration with sanofi (b) in collaboration with teva and mitsubishi tanabe pharma (c) fda granted orphan drug designation (d) fda granted breakthrough therapy designation (e) fda granted fast track designation (f) sanofi did not opt-in to or elected not to continue to co-develop the product candidate. under the terms of our agreement, sanofi is entitled to receive royalties on any future global sales of the product candidate. (g) sanofi did not opt-in to the product candidate. under the terms of our agreement, sanofi is entitled to receive royalties on any future sales of the product candidate. we and barda of the hhs are parties to agreements (including an agreement executed in september 2017 - see "other programs" below for further information) whereby hhs provides certain funding to support research, development, and manufacturing of an antibody therapy for the treatment of ebola virus infection. (h) studied as monotherapy and in combination with other antibodies and treatments in the third quarter of 2017, we reported that a phase 3 study evaluating suptavumab (regn2222), an antibody to the respiratory syncytial virus-f (rsv-f) protein, did not meet its primary endpoint of preventing medically-attended rsv infections in infants. suptavumab did show signs of efficacy in a subgroup of patients. adverse events were generally balanced between suptavumab and placebo. we have discontinued further clinical development of suptavumab. in the fourth quarter of 2017, we reported that results from two phase 2 studies that added the angiopoietin2 (ang2) antibody nesvacumab to eylea did not provide sufficient differentiation to warrant phase 3 development. the ruby study evaluated patients with dme and the onyx study evaluated patients with wet amd. eylea results were consistent with findings in previous clinical studies, and there were no new safety signals in these studies. results from ruby and onyx will be further analyzed and will be submitted for presentation at a future medical congress. our core business strategy is to maintain a strong foundation in basic scientific research and discovery-enabling technologies, and to build on that foundation with our clinical development, manufacturing, and commercial capabilities. our objective is to continue to be an integrated, multi-product biopharmaceutical company that provides patients and medical professionals with important options for preventing and treating human diseases. we believe that our ability to develop product candidates is enhanced by the application of our velocisuite technology platforms. our discovery platforms are designed to identify specific proteins of therapeutic interest for a particular disease or cell type and validate these targets through high-throughput production of genetically modified mice using our velocigene technology to understand the role of these proteins in normal physiology, as well as in models of disease. our human antibody technology ( velocimmune ) and cell line expression technologies ( velocimab ) may then be utilized to discover and produce new product candidates directed against the disease target. our antibody product candidates currently in clinical trials were developed using velocimmune . we continue to invest in the development of enabling technologies to assist in our efforts to identify, develop, manufacture, and commercialize new product candidates. trap-based clinical program - ophthalmologic diseases eylea (aflibercept) - ophthalmologic diseases overview eylea is a recombinant fusion protein, consisting of portions of human vegf receptors 1 and 2 extracellular domains fused to the fc portion of human igg1 and formulated as an iso-osmotic solution for intravitreal administration. eylea acts as a soluble decoy receptor that binds vegf-a and placental growth factor (plgf) and thereby can inhibit the binding and activation of these cognate vegf receptors. eylea is specially purified and contains iso-osmotic buffer concentrations, which optimizes it for injection into the eye. diabetic retinopathy diabetic retinopathy is a complication of diabetes mellitus characterized by microvascular damage to the blood vessels in the retina. it can progress to proliferative diabetic retinopathy (pdr), where new, abnormal vessels that are susceptible to hemorrhage grow initially from the retina and/or optic disc and extend beyond the internal limiting membrane. pdr can subsequently lead to various vision-threatening complications such as vitreous hemorrhage, traction macular detachment, and neovascular glaucoma (nvg). patients are often observed until disease progresses sufficiently to warrant intraocular surgery (vitrectomy) or, more commonly, extensive laser treatment (panretinal photocoagulation (prp)). prp is utilized with the intent of preserving function of the central retina, but is inherently destructive to the peripheral retina and may result in loss of peripheral vision. a phase 3 study (panorama) to assess the efficacy and safety of intravitreal aflibercept in patients with moderately severe to severe npdr without dme has completed enrollment. 7 table of contents late-stage antibody-based clinical programs dupixent (dupilumab; il-4r antibody) for allergic and inflammatory conditions overview il-4r is required for signaling by the cytokines il-4 and il-13. both of these cytokines are critical mediators of type 2 inflammation, which drives the formation of immunoglobulin e (ige) antibodies and allergic diseases like atopic dermatitis (eczema), asthma, nasal polyps, and eosinophilic esophagitis. dupilumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody generated using our velocimmune technology and is designed to bind to il-4r alpha subunit to block signaling from both il-4 and il-13. atopic dermatitis phase 3 studies in adolescent and pediatric patients. in the first quarter of 2017, a phase 3 study in adolescent patients (12 17 years of age) with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis was initiated, and in the fourth quarter of 2017, a phase 3 study in pediatric patients (from six years to 11 years of age) with severe atopic dermatitis was also initiated. additionally, in the first quarter of 2018, we initiated a phase 2/3 study in younger pediatric patients (from six months to five years of age) with severe atopic dermatitis. in 2016, the fda granted breakthrough therapy designation for dupilumab for the treatment of moderate-to-severe (12 to less than 18 years of age) and severe (6 months to less than 12 years of age) atopic dermatitis in patients who are not adequately controlled with, or who are intolerant to, topical medication. other phase 3 studies . the phase 3 liberty ad caf study of dupixent investigated two dose regimens of dupixent (300 mg weekly and 300 mg every two weeks) with concomitant topical corticosteroids in adult patients with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis who are inadequately controlled with or intolerant to the broad immunosuppressant drug cyclosporine a (csa), or when this treatment is medically inadvisable. the primary endpoint of this study was the proportion of patients with a 75% or greater improvement from baseline in their eczema area and severity index (easi-75) score at 16 weeks. in april 2017, we and sanofi announced that the results of the liberty ad caf study were positive and demonstrated an acceptable safety profile. these results were submitted to the ema and in september 2017, we and sanofi presented the results at the european academy of dermatology and venereology (eadv) congress. in march 2017, at the annual meeting of the american academy of dermatology, we and sanofi presented additional detailed results from the phase 3 liberty ad chronos study. this study met its primary and secondary endpoints, with patients receiving dupixent along with topical corticosteroids (tcs) achieving significantly improved measures of overall disease severity at 16 and 52 weeks, compared to tcs alone in adults with uncontrolled moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis. asthma phase 3 program . liberty asthma quest is a phase 3 study that evaluated dupilumab in adult and adolescent patients with uncontrolled persistent asthma. it is a global, placebo-controlled phase 3 study that enrolled more than 1,900 patients. patients were randomized into four groups: dupilumab 200 mg every other week with a loading dose of 400 mg, dupilumab 300 mg every other week with a loading dose of 600 mg, and two separate placebo groups. patients were randomized in a 2:1 fashion to active drug versus placebo. the two primary endpoints of the study were the annualized rate of severe exacerbation events at 52 weeks and the absolute change from baseline in a standard measure of lung function known as pre-bronchodilator forced expiratory volume over one second (fev 1 ) at 12 weeks. the pre-specified primary analysis included hierarchical evaluation of these endpoints in the overall population, in patients with 150 eosinophilic cells/microliter or greater, and in patients with 300 eosinophilic cells/microliter or greater. in the study, approximately 50% of patients had 300 eosinophilic cells/microliter or greater and approximately 70% of patients had 150 eosinophilic cells/microliter or greater. higher eosinophil counts are generally thought to be associated with poorer asthma control and higher rates of exacerbations, as was observed in the placebo patients in this study. in the third quarter of 2017, we and sanofi announced that the liberty asthma quest study met its two primary endpoints. dupilumab, when added to standard therapies, reduced severe asthma attacks (exacerbations) and improved lung function. at 52 weeks, in the 300 mg dose group, dupilumab reduced severe asthma attacks by 46% in the overall population, 60% in patients with 150 eosinophilic cells/microliter or greater, and 67% in patients with 300 eosinophilic cells/microliter or greater (p&lt;0.001 for all groups). at 12 weeks, in the 300 mg dupilumab dose group, mean improvement in lung function over placebo as assessed by fev 1 was 130 ml (9%) in the overall population, 150 ml (11%) in patients with 150 eosinophilic cells/microliter or greater, and 240 ml (18%) in patients with 300 eosinophilic cells/microliter or greater (p&lt;0.001 for all groups). changes in fev 1 of 100 to 200 ml are considered clinically relevant. in the liberty asthma quest study, the exacerbations and fev 1 results for the 200 mg and 300 mg dupilumab dose groups were generally comparable. the extent of patient response correlated with allergic or atopic status as reflected by blood eosinophils and other markers. less activity was observed in patients with less than 150 eosinophilic cells/microliter. the overall 8 table of contents rates of adverse events, deaths, infections, conjunctivitis, herpes, and discontinuations were comparable between the dupilumab and placebo groups. injection site reactions were more common in the dupilumab groups (17%) compared to placebo (8%). all patients continued throughout the study on a medium or high dose inhaled corticosteroid (ics) and up to two additional controller medicines. eosinophil subgroups were classified based on baseline levels. detailed results from this study will be submitted for presentation at a future medical congress. in the fourth quarter of 2017, we and sanofi announced that liberty asthma venture, a randomized phase 3 study examining the ability of dupilumab to reduce oral corticosteroid use in adults and adolescents with severe steroid-dependent asthma, met its primary endpoint and key secondary endpoints. patients with severe chronic asthma have compromised lung function. in venture, baseline fev 1 was approximately 52% of predicted normal. oral corticosteriods (ocs) are typically prescribed to improve lung function and reduce asthma attacks in these severe patients. the venture study enrolled 210 patients (103 in the dupilumab group and 107 in the placebo group) with severe asthma and regular use of ocs in the six months prior to enrollment. this phase 3 trial enrolled severe steroid-dependent asthma patients without regard to baseline eosinophil levels or other biomarkers. the results showed improvements compared to placebo on lung function and exacerbations across patient subgroups - those with baseline eosinophil counts above 300 cells/microliter, above 150 cells/microliter, and below 150 cells/microliter. for the primary endpoint, at 24 weeks in the overall population, dupilumab added to standard therapies significantly reduced the use of maintenance ocs by 70% on average (median reduction of 100%) compared to 42% with placebo (median reduction of 50%) (p&lt;0.0001). in prespecified analyses of patients with baseline eosinophil counts greater than or equal to 300 cells/microliter, adding dupilumab significantly reduced ocs use by 80% on average (median reduction of 100%) compared to 43% for placebo (median reduction of 50%) (nominal p=0.0001). at 24 weeks, despite the reduced use of ocs, patients treated with dupilumab had 59% fewer attacks (exacerbations) in the overall population (p&lt;0.0001) and 71% fewer attacks in patients with eosinophil counts greater than or equal to 300 cells/microliter. in addition to reducing exacerbations while reducing oral steroid dependence, dupilumab also improved lung function. at 24 weeks, the placebo-adjusted improvement in fev 1 on dupilumab was 220 ml (15%) in the overall population (p=0.0007) and 320 ml (25%) in patients with eosinophil counts greater than or equal to 300 cells/microliter (nominal p=0.0049). the safety and tolerability profile of dupilumab in the liberty asthma venture study was consistent with previous studies. there were more injection-site reactions reported with dupilumab (9%) vs. placebo (4%). there were more dupilumab-treated patients with an increase in eosinophil counts (14% dupilumab vs. 1% placebo), most of which were mild and the vast majority of which resolved. overall rates of adverse events, including infections, conjunctivitis, and herpes, were comparable between the dupilumab and placebo groups. based on discussions with the fda, our previously reported and published phase 2b liberty asthma quest study served as the second required pivotal efficacy study for the sbla for asthma. the results from the liberty asthma venture study were also included in the sbla for asthma, which was submitted with the fda in the fourth quarter of 2017. the traverse study, a long-term safety extension study, is also included in the liberty asthma clinical development program. phase 3 study in pediatric patients. in the second quarter of 2017, a phase 3 study in pediatric patients (from six to 11 years of age) with uncontrolled persistent asthma was initiated. nasal polyps phase 3 study . in 2017, we completed enrollment in two phase 3 studies, as part of the liberty np sinus program, in adult patients with bilateral nasal polyps on a background therapy with intranasal corticosteroids. eosinophilic esophagitis phase 2 study. eoe is a chronic allergic inflammatory disease manifested by tissue injury and pain and difficulty swallowing. people with eoe may also have allergies, asthma, atopic dermatitis, and chronic respiratory disease. in the second quarter of 2017, we and sanofi announced positive results from a 12-week phase 2 proof-of-concept study of dupilumab in patients with active, moderate-to-severe eoe. in the fourth quarter of 2017, we and sanofi presented these results at the world congress of gastroenterology. the study showed that compared to placebo, patients who received dupilumab weekly reported a significant improvement in the ability to swallow. the primary endpoint of the study was the change from baseline to week 10 in the straumann dysphagia instrument (sdi) score, a 0 9 point patient-reported measure of swallowing difficulty, with 9 indicating more severe symptoms. a total of 47 patients were randomized to dupilumab 300 mg weekly following a 600 mg loading dose or placebo. mean baseline sdi score was 6.4 in each group. at week 10, patients who received dupilumab reported a significant improvement in the ability to swallow with a three point reduction in their sdi score (45% improvement) compared to 1.3 points (19% improvement) for those patients who received placebo (p=0.0304). 9 table of contents secondary endpoints of the study included endoscopic and histopathologic measures of disease severity, as well as other symptoms. the results include: the mean change in the eosinophilic esophagitis endoscopic reference score (eoe-erefs) at 12 weeks was significantly reduced by 1.9 points from baseline (48% improvement) in patients who received dupilumab compared to 0.3 points (7% improvement) for those who received placebo (p=0.0006). eoe-erefs is a visual measure of disease severity (inflammation and fibrosis in the esophagus) on a 0 8 point scale, with 8 indicating more severe disease. the mean baseline score was 3.9 for dupilumab and 4.3 for placebo. the mean percent change in overall peak intraepithelial eosinophil count from baseline to 12 weeks was significantly reduced by 93% in patients who received dupilumab compared to an increase of 14% in those who received placebo (p&lt;0.0001). the mean percent change in a composite measure of symptoms and quality of life, as measured by eosinophilic esophagitis symptom activity index (eesai), was numerically improved at 10 weeks (although not statistically significant) by 35% in patients who received dupilumab compared to an 11% improvement for those who received placebo (p=0.085). there were no new significant safety concerns in this study. compared to placebo, higher rates of injection site reactions were observed on dupilumab. in the third quarter of 2017, the fda granted orphan drug designation to dupilumab for the treatment of eoe. praluent for ldl cholesterol reduction overview elevated ldl cholesterol ("bad cholesterol") level is a validated risk factor leading to cardiovascular disease. statins are a class of drugs that lower ldl cholesterol (ldl-c) through inhibition of hmg-coa, an enzyme regulating the early and rate-limiting step in cholesterol biosynthesis that ultimately results in an increase in ldl receptors to increase the uptake of plasma ldl lipoproteins. similar to statins, pcsk9 impacts the number of available ldl receptors and therefore plays a key role in modulating ldl-c levels in the body. pcsk9 is a secreted protein that binds to and induces the destruction of the ldl receptor, thereby interfering with cellular uptake and increasing circulating levels of ldl cholesterol. in a landmark study published in the new england journal of medicine in march 2006, patients with lower than normal pcsk9 levels due to a genetic abnormality not only had significantly lower levels of ldl-c, but also a significant reduction in the risk of coronary heart disease (chd). we used our velocimmune technology to generate a fully human monoclonal antibody inhibitor of pcsk9, called praluent, which lowers ldl cholesterol. clinical program the potential of praluent to reduce cardiovascular events is being prospectively assessed in the 18,000-patient odyssey outcomes study (with data expected in the first quarter of 2018). to be entered into the odyssey outcomes study, patients had to have had a heart attack or unstable angina requiring hospitalization within the previous year, and inadequately controlled ldl cholesterol despite receiving maximally-tolerated statins and potentially other lipid-lowering therapies. a phase 4 randomized, placebo-controlled, long-term study that prospectively evaluates the effect of praluent on neurocognitive function remains ongoing. this is a post-marketing commitment we made to the fda. in the second quarter of 2017, we and sanofi presented positive results from two phase 3b/4 studies (odyssey-insulin and odyssey-dyslipidemia) that evaluated praluent in patients with diabetes. a majority of patients in both trials reached their lipid goals on praluent 75 mg administered every two weeks. the overall safety profile was consistent with observations in the odyssey phase 3 program. the sbla for use of praluent with apheresis has been filed with the fda, with a target action date of august 24, 2018. in the fourth quarter of 2017, a phase 3 study in hofh was initiated. kevzara (sarilumab; il-6r antibody) for inflammatory diseases overview il-6 is a key cytokine driving inflammation and joint destruction in ra. sarilumab, generated using our velocimmune technology, is a fully human monoclonal antibody to il-6r. 10 table of contents polyarticular-course juvenile idiopathic arthritis (pcjia) a phase 2 study of sarilumab in pcjia was initiated in 2016. cemiplimab (regn2810; pd-1 antibody) for cancer overview the pd-1 immune checkpoint pathway has emerged as a major mechanism by which cancers evade immune destruction. several drugs blocking either pd-1 or pd-l1 (one of the two ligands bound by pd-1) have been approved. cemiplimab is a fully-human high-affinity anti-pd-1 antibody that was generated using the velocimmune platform. we are developing cemiplimab as a foundation for a diverse and comprehensive immuno-oncology portfolio. our initial approval strategy is focused on monotherapy in selected indications. subsequent development activities are expected to include combinations with other anti-cancer agents. clinical program cemiplimab is in phase 1 clinical development in a variety of malignancies, both as monotherapy and in combination with other antibodies or treatments. in 2016, we initiated a pivotal phase 2 study for the treatment of metastatic or locally advanced and unresectable cscc. in the second quarter of 2017, we initiated a phase 3 study in first-line treatment for nsclc and a potentially pivotal phase 2 study in bcc. in the third quarter of 2017, we also initiated a phase 3 study in cervical cancer. in june 2017, we and sanofi announced positive preliminary results in patients with advanced cscc. we presented data at the 2017 american society of clinical oncology (asco) annual meeting from 26 patients pooled from two expansion cohorts of the cemiplimab phase 1 study. ten patients with distantly metastatic cscc were enrolled in one expansion cohort and 16 patients with inoperable (unresectable) locally or regionally advanced cscc were enrolled in a second expansion cohort. treatment with cemiplimab led to an investigator-assessed overall response rate (orr) of 46.2% and a disease control rate (dcr) of 69.2%. the median progression-free survival and overall survival were not reached at the data cutoff date with a median follow up of 6.9 months (range: 1.1 to 13.8 months; ongoing). one patient experienced progressive disease following an initial response to cemiplimab, and two patients were not evaluable for response due to death, which was considered unrelated to cemiplimab. the most common treatment-related adverse event of any grade was fatigue (23.1%). grade 3 or higher adverse events included arthralgia (3.8%), maculopapular rash (3.8%), asthenia (3.8%), aspartate aminotransferase (ast) elevation (3.8%), and alanine aminotransferase (alt) elevation (3.8%). we found no apparent association between the treatment response and level of pd-l1 (programmed death ligand 1) expression. in the third quarter of 2017, the fda granted cemiplimab breakthrough therapy designation for the treatment of adults with metastatic cscc and adults with locally advanced and unresectable cscc. in december 2017, we and sanofi announced positive top-line results from the pivotal phase 2 empower-cscc 1 study of cemiplimab in 82 patients with advanced cscc. cemiplimab demonstrated an orr of 46.3%, determined by independent review. the median duration of response (dor) had not yet been reached at the data cut-off point (32 of 38 responses were ongoing). at the time of this analysis, all patients had a minimum follow up of 6 months. the safety profile in the study was generally consistent with approved anti-pd-1 agents. these pivotal data will form the basis of a rolling bla submission to the fda, which we have initiated. cemiplimab is also being studied by other companies in combination with their proprietary assets. for example, in the second quarter of 2017, we and inovio pharmaceuticals, inc. entered into a clinical and supply agreement for a phase 1b/2a immuno-oncology study that will be conducted by inovio in patients with newly-diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme (gbm) and will evaluate cemiplimab in combination with inovio's ino-5401 t cell activating immunotherapy encoding multiple antigens and ino-9012, an immune activator encoding il-12. also in the second quarter of 2017, we and sillajen, inc. entered into a clinical and supply agreement for a phase 1b dose-escalation study in renal cell carcinoma (rcc), or kidney cancer. the study will evaluate cemiplimab in combination with sillajen's oncolytic vaccinia virus, pexa-vec, in patients with previously treated metastatic or unresectable renal cell carcinoma. in the fourth quarter of 2017, we and isa pharmaceuticals entered into a collaboration agreement to develop isa101, an immunotherapy targeting hpv16-induced cancer, in combination with cemiplimab. we and isa will jointly fund and conduct clinical trials of the combination treatment in cervical cancer and head-and-neck cancer. 11 table of contents fasinumab (regn475; ngf antibody) for pain due to osteoarthritis and chronic low back pain overview pain is among the most common reasons people see the doctor and why analgesics, including opioids, are among the most commonly prescribed drugs. pain is a major cause of work disability and impaired quality of life. targeting ngf is a potential new way to manage pain without resorting to opiods. ngf expression is elevated in many acute and chronic painful conditions and ngf blockade has demonstrated efficacy in clinical trials. fasinumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody to ngf, generated using our velocimmune technology. the fasinumab clinical development program is expected to comprise approximately 10,000 patients treated with fasinumab. osteoarthritis we initiated a phase 3 long-term safety study in patients with pain due to osteoarthritis of the knee or hip in 2016 and a phase 3 efficacy study in patients with pain due to osteoarthritis of the knee or hip in the second quarter of 2017. in the third quarter of 2017, we initiated a phase 3 efficacy study of fasinumab compared to placebo or naproxen in patients with pain due to osteoarthritis of the knee or hip and in the fourth quarter of 2017 we initiated a phase 3 efficacy study with multiple nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids) in patients with pain due to osteoarthritis. as previously reported, in our phase 2/3 clinical study in osteoarthritis, the incidence of adjudicated arthropathies in patients on fasinumab was found to be potentially dose-dependent. the ongoing fasinumab osteoarthritis pain pivotal phase 3 program excludes higher doses associated with a higher incidence of arthropathy. chronic low back pain a phase 3 study in chronic low back pain in patients with concomitant osteoarthritis was initiated in the fourth quarter of 2017. evinacumab (regn1500; antibody to angptl3) for cardiovascular and metabolic disease overview angptl3 is a protein secreted by the liver. angptl3 inhibition lowers plasma levels of triglycerides, ldl-c, and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (hdl-c). evinacumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody and a specific inhibitor of angptl3. we are investigating the use of evinacumab in patients with dyslipidemias. hofh a phase 2 study for the treatment of hofh is fully enrolled and ongoing. a phase 3 study in hofh was initiated in the first quarter of 2018. refractory hypercholesterolemia a phase 2 study in refractory hypercholesterolemia (both hefh and non-fh) was initiated in the fourth quarter of 2017 . other programs our preclinical research programs include the areas of oncology and immuno-oncology, angiogenesis, ophthalmology, metabolic and related diseases, muscle diseases and disorders, inflammation and immune diseases, bone and cartilage, pain and neurobiology, cardiovascular diseases, and infectious diseases. in 2015, we and barda of the hhs entered into an agreement to develop, test, and manufacture an antibody therapy (regn3470-3471-3479) for the treatment of ebola virus infection. under the terms of the agreement, hhs provides funding to support our preclinical development, antibody manufacturing, and for a phase 1 study in healthy volunteers, and has the option to provide additional funding for further manufacturing and development studies. in september 2017, we and barda entered into an additional agreement whereby hhs provides additional funding for the continued development of regn3470-3471-3479, a potential bla filing, and initial procurement of the therapy for national security preparedness. in addition, in 2016, we and barda entered into an agreement whereby hhs will provide certain funding to manufacture and study two antibody therapies for the potential treatment of middle east respiratory syndrome (mers). in september 2017, we and barda also entered into an agreement to discover, research, develop, and manufacture a portfolio of antibodies targeting up to 10 pathogens, starting with influenza virus, that pose significant risk to public health. the emerging pathogens treatment portfolio will be pursued using an other transaction agreement (ota), which provides a funding and collaboration vehicle for hhs to promote innovation in technology for advanced research and development. under the ota, 12 table of contents which has a term of 10 years, hhs will fund 80% of our costs for research, development, and manufacturing activities for antibodies that are selected to move forward. research and development technologies many proteins that play an important role in biology and disease are secreted by cells or located on the cell surface. moreover, cells communicate through secreted factors and surface molecules. our scientists have developed two different technologies to make protein therapeutics that potently and specifically block, activate, or inhibit the action of specific cell surface or secreted molecules. the first technology fuses receptor components to the constant region of an antibody molecule to make a class of drugs we call "traps". eylea, zaltrap, and arcalyst are drugs generated using our trap technology. velocisuite is our second technology platform. it is used for discovering, developing, and producing fully human antibodies that can address both secreted and cell-surface targets. velocisuite. velocisuite consists of velocimmune , velocigene , velocimouse , velocimab , and other related technologies. the velocimmune mouse platform is utilized to produce fully human antibodies. velocimmune was generated by exploiting our velocigene technology (see below), in a process in which six megabases of mouse immune gene loci were replaced, or "humanized," with corresponding human immune gene loci. velocimmune mice can be used efficiently to generate fully human antibodies to targets of therapeutic interest. velocimmune and our entire velocisuite offer the potential to increase the speed and efficiency through which human antibody therapeutics may be discovered and validated, thereby improving the overall efficiency of our early stage drug development activities. we are utilizing the velocimmune technology to produce our next generation of drug candidates for preclinical and clinical development. our velocigene platform allows custom and precise manipulation of very large sequences of dna to produce highly customized alterations of a specified target gene, or genes, and accelerates the production of knock-out and transgenic expression models without using either positive/negative selection or isogenic dna. in producing knock-out models, a color or fluorescent marker may be substituted in place of the actual gene sequence, allowing for high-resolution visualization of precisely where the gene is active in the body during normal body functioning as well as in disease processes. for the optimization of preclinical development and pharmacology programs, velocigene offers the opportunity to humanize targets by replacing the mouse gene with the human homolog. thus, velocigene allows scientists to rapidly identify the physical and biological effects of deleting or over-expressing the target gene, as well as to characterize and test potential therapeutic molecules. our velocimouse technology platform allows for the direct and immediate generation of genetically altered mice from embryonic stem cells (es cells), thereby avoiding the lengthy process involved in generating and breeding knockout mice from chimeras. mice generated through this method are normal and healthy and exhibit a 100% germ-line transmission. furthermore, mice developed using our velocimouse technology are suitable for direct phenotyping or other studies. we have also developed our velocimab platform for the rapid screening of antibodies and rapid generation of expression cell lines for our traps and our velocimmune human antibodies. we have utilized our velocisuite technologies to develop a class of potential drug candidates, known as bi-specific antibodies. in the area of immunotherapies in oncology, we are exploring the use of bi-specific antibodies that target tumor antigens and the cd3 receptor on t-cells to harness the oncolytic properties of t-cells. our first such bi-specific antibody, regn1979, targets cd20 and cd3. we are exploring additional indications and applications for our bi-specific technologies, such as bi-specific antibodies to mucin 16 (muc16) and b-cell maturation antigen (bcma). regeneron genetics center . in 2014, we launched a new human genetics initiative via a wholly owned subsidiary, regeneron genetics center llc (rgc). rgc leverages de-identified clinical, genomic, and molecular data from human volunteers to identify medically relevant associations in a blinded fashion designed to preserve patients' privacy. the objective of rgc is to expand the use of human genetics for discovering and validating genetic factors that cause or influence a range of diseases where there are major unmet medical needs, with the prospect of improving the drug discovery and development process. rgc is undertaking multiple approaches, including large population-based efforts as well as family- and founder-based approaches. rgc utilizes laboratory automation and innovative approaches to cloud computing to achieve high-quality throughput. central to the work of rgc is a collaboration with the geisinger health system of pennsylvania. geisinger collects samples from consented patient volunteers, while rgc performs sequencing and genotyping to generate de-identified genomic data. in addition, rgc has expanded on its foundational population-based collaboration with geisinger with a growing number of other organizations worldwide. in january 2018, we, along with abbvie inc., alnylam pharmaceuticals inc., astrazeneca plc, biogen inc., and pfizer inc., announced the formation of a consortium to fund the generation of genetic exome sequence data from 500,000 volunteer participants who make up the uk biobank health resource. the other companies will each commit up to $10.0 million in funding for regeneron to sequence the uk biobank's samples, which will be performed at the rgc facility. consortium members will have a limited period of exclusive access to the sequencing data, before the data will be made available to other health researchers by uk biobank. 13 table of contents license agreements in september 2017, we entered into a license agreement with a third party, which grants the third party the right to develop and commercialize new indications for arcalyst in certain jurisdictions, including the united states. we currently maintain exclusive rights to arcalyst in the united states for existing indications, and are entitled to all profits from such sales. commencing with the receipt of marketing approval by the third party for the first new indication in the united states, we will grant commercial rights to arcalyst for our existing indications to the third party. collaboration agreements collaborations with sanofi antibodies . our discovery and preclinical development agreement (antibody discovery agreement) with sanofi ended on december 31, 2017 without any extension. praluent, dupixent, kevzara, cemiplimab, regn3500, and regn3767 were discovered and initially developed under the antibody discovery agreement. praluent, dupixent, kevzara, and regn3500 will continue to be developed, and commercialized as applicable, with sanofi under the antibody license and collaboration agreement (lca). cemiplimab and regn3767 will continue to be developed with sanofi under the immuno-oncology collaboration. we have the right to develop or continue to develop other product candidates discovered under the antibody discovery agreement independently or with other collaborators. under the terms of the lca, development costs for the drug candidate are shared between the companies, with sanofi generally funding these costs as they are incurred by us, except that following receipt of the first positive phase 3 trial results for a co-developed drug candidate, subsequent phase 3 trial-related costs for that drug candidate are shared 80% by sanofi and 20% by us. we are generally responsible for reimbursing sanofi for half of the total development costs for all collaboration antibody products from our share of profits from commercialization of collaboration products to the extent they are sufficient for this purpose. we are obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to supply clinical requirements of each drug candidate under the collaboration until commercial supplies of that drug candidate are being manufactured. effective january 7, 2018, we and sanofi entered into a letter agreement (letter agreement) amending the lca in connection with, among other matters, the allocation of additional funds to certain proposed activities relating to the development of dupilumab and regn3500 and non-approval trials of dupilumab (collectively, the dupilumab/regn3500 eligible investments). pursuant to the letter agreement, we have agreed to allow sanofi to satisfy in whole or in part its funding obligations with respect to the dupilumab/regn3500 eligible investments for the quarterly periods commencing on january 1, 2018 and ending on september 30, 2020 by selling up to 600,000 shares of our common stock directly or indirectly owned by sanofi. refer to the "immuno-oncology" section below for further details regarding the letter agreement. under our collaboration agreement, sanofi records product sales for commercialized products, and regeneron has the right to co-promote such products on a country-by-country basis. we have exercised our option to co-promote dupixent, praluent, and kevzara in the united states. we have not exercised any of our options to co-promote these antibodies outside the united states; however, we retain the right to do so at a future date subject to the terms of the collaboration agreement. we and sanofi will equally share profits and losses from sales within the united states. we and sanofi share profits outside the united states on a sliding scale based on sales starting at 65% (sanofi)/35% (us) and ending at 55% (sanofi)/45% (us), and share losses outside the united states at 55% (sanofi)/45% (us). in addition to profit sharing, we are entitled to receive up to $250.0 million in sales milestone payments, with milestone payments commencing after aggregate annual sales outside the united states exceed $1.0 billion on a rolling 12-month basis. immuno-oncology. in july 2015, we and sanofi entered into a global strategic collaboration to discover, develop, and commercialize antibody-based cancer treatments in the field of immuno-oncology (the io collaboration). the io collaboration is governed by an immuno-oncology discovery and development agreement (io discovery agreement), and an immuno-oncology license and collaboration agreement (io license and collaboration agreement). in connection with the io discovery agreement, sanofi made a $265.0 million non-refundable up-front payment to us. pursuant to the io discovery agreement, we will spend up to $1,090.0 million (io discovery budget) to identify and validate potential immuno-oncology targets and develop therapeutic antibodies against such targets through clinical proof-of-concept. sanofi will reimburse us for up to $825.0 million (io discovery funding) of these costs, subject to certain annual limits. the term of the io discovery agreement will continue through the later of five years from the effective date of the io collaboration or the date the io discovery budget is exhausted, subject to sanofi's option to extend it for up to an additional three years for the continued development (and funding) of selected ongoing programs. pursuant to the io discovery agreement, we will be primarily responsible for the design and conduct of all research activities, including target identification and validation, antibody development, preclinical activities, toxicology studies, manufacture of preclinical and clinical supplies, filing of investigational new drug applications (inds), and clinical development through proof-of-concept. we will reimburse sanofi for half of the development costs they funded that are attributable to clinical development of antibody product candidates under the io discovery agreement from our share of future profits, if any, from commercialized 14 table of contents io collaboration products to the extent they are sufficient for this purpose. with regard to product candidates for which proof-of-concept is established, sanofi will have the option to license rights to the product candidate pursuant to the io license and collaboration agreement (as further described below). in connection with the io license and collaboration agreement, sanofi made a $375.0 million non-refundable up-front payment to us. if sanofi exercises its option to license rights to a product candidate thereunder, it will co-develop the drug candidate with us through product approval. principal control of development of each product candidate that enters development under the io license and collaboration agreement will alternate between us and sanofi on a candidate-by-candidate basis. sanofi will fund drug candidate development costs up front for the candidates for which it is the principal controlling party and we will reimburse half of the total development costs for all such candidates from our share of future io collaboration profits to the extent they are sufficient for this purpose. in addition, we and sanofi will share equally, on an ongoing basis, the development costs for the drug candidates for which we are the principal controlling party. the party having principal control over the development of a product candidate will also lead the commercialization activities for such product candidate in the united states. we are obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to supply clinical requirements of each drug candidate under the io license and collaboration agreement until commercial supplies of that io drug candidate are being manufactured. for all products commercialized under the io license and collaboration agreement, sanofi will lead commercialization activities outside of the united states. each party will have the right to co-promote licensed products in countries where it is not the lead commercialization party. the parties will share equally in profits and losses in connection with the commercialization of collaboration products. under the terms of the io license and collaboration agreement, the parties will also co-develop our antibody product candidate targeting pd-1 (cemiplimab). we have principal control over the development of cemiplimab, and the parties share equally, on an ongoing basis, development expenses for cemiplimab. pursuant to the january 7, 2018 letter agreement with sanofi, the cemiplimab development budget has been increased to a total of $1.640 billion , $990.0 million over the budget originally set forth in the io license and collaboration agreement. under the letter agreement, we have also agreed to allow sanofi to satisfy in whole or in part its funding obligation with respect to cemiplimab development costs for the quarterly periods commencing on october 1, 2017 and ending on september 30, 2020 by selling up to 800,000 shares of our common stock directly or indirectly owned by sanofi. if sanofi desires to sell shares of our common stock during the term of the letter agreement to satisfy a portion or all of its funding obligations for the cemiplimab development and/or, as noted above, dupilumab/regn3500 eligible investments, we may elect to purchase, in whole or in part, such shares from sanofi. if we do not elect to purchase such shares, sanofi may sell the applicable number of shares (subject to certain daily and quarterly limits) in one or more open-market transactions. with regard to cemiplimab, we will lead commercialization activities in the united states, while sanofi will lead commercialization activities outside of the united states and the parties will equally share profits from worldwide sales. sanofi has exercised its option to co-promote cemiplimab in the united states. we will be entitled to a milestone payment of $375.0 million in the event that global sales of certain licensed products targeting pd-1 (including cemiplimab), together with sales of any other products licensed under the io license and collaboration agreement and sold for use in combination with any of such licensed products targeting pd-1, equal or exceed $2.0 billion in any consecutive twelve-month period. collaborations with bayer eylea outside the united states . since october 2006, we and bayer have been parties to a license and collaboration agreement for the global development and commercialization outside the united states of eylea. under the agreement, we and bayer collaborate on, and share the costs of, the development of eylea. bayer markets eylea outside the united states, where, for countries other than japan, the companies share equally in profits and losses from sales of eylea. in japan, we are entitled to receive a tiered percentage of between 33.5% and 40.0% of eylea net sales. commencing with the first commercial sale of eylea in a major market country outside the united states, we became obligated to reimburse bayer for 50% of the development costs that it has incurred under the agreement from our share of the collaboration profits (including payments to us based on sales in japan). the reimbursement payment in any quarter will equal 5% of the then outstanding repayment obligation, but never more than our share of the collaboration profits in the quarter unless we elect to reimburse bayer at a faster rate. as a result, we expect that a portion of our share of eylea profits outside the united states will be used to reimburse bayer for this repayment obligation. within the united states, we retain exclusive commercialization rights to eylea and are entitled to all profits from any such sales. 15 table of contents ang2 antibody outside the united states. in march 2016, we entered into an agreement with bayer governing the joint development and commercialization outside the united states of nesvacumab, an antibody product candidate to ang2, including regn910-3 (nesvacumab in combination with aflibercept), for the treatment of ocular diseases or disorders. in connection with the agreement, bayer made a $50.0 million non-refundable up-front payment to us and is obligated to pay 25% of global development costs and 50% of development costs exclusively for the territory outside the united states. in the fourth quarter of 2017, we reported that results from two phase 2 studies that added nesvacumab to eylea did not provide sufficient differentiation to warrant phase 3 development. collaboration with mitsubishi tanabe pharma fasinumab. in september 2015, we entered into a collaboration agreement with mitsubishi tanabe pharma corporation (mtpc) providing mtpc with development and commercial rights to fasinumab in japan, south korea, taiwan, indonesia, thailand, the philippines, malaysia, singapore, vietnam, myanmar, and sri lanka (the mtpc territories). in connection with the agreement, mtpc made a $10.0 million non-refundable up-front payment in 2015, and in 2016, mtpc made additional payments totaling $60.0 million to us. in the second quarter of 2017, we earned a $30.0 million development milestone from mtpc, and in the fourth quarter of 2017, mtpc made additional payments totaling $25.0 million to us related to development milestones achieved by mtpc. we are entitled to receive up to an aggregate of $100.0 million in additional development milestone and other contingent payments. under the agreement, we are obligated to manufacture and supply mtpc with clinical and commercial supplies of fasinumab. if fasinumab is commercialized in the mtpc territories, we will supply the product to mtpc at a tiered purchase price, which ranges from 30% to 50% of net sales of the product (subject to adjustment in certain circumstances), and are eligible for additional payments up to an aggregate of $100.0 million upon the achievement of specified annual net sales amounts starting at $200.0 million. collaboration with teva fasinumab . in september 2016, we entered into a collaboration agreement with teva to develop and commercialize fasinumab globally, excluding certain asian countries that are subject to our collaboration agreement with mtpc (as described above). in connection with the agreement, teva made a $250.0 million non-refundable up-front payment in 2016. we will lead global development activities, and the parties will share equally, on an ongoing basis, development costs under a global development plan. during 2017, we earned $25.0 million and $35.0 million development milestones from teva, and we are entitled to receive up to an aggregate of $400.0 million in additional development milestones and up to an aggregate of $1,890.0 million in contingent payments upon achievement of specified annual net sales amounts. we are responsible for the manufacture and supply of fasinumab globally. within the united states, we will lead commercialization activities, and the parties will share equally in any profits or losses in connection with commercialization of fasinumab. in the territory outside of the united states, teva will lead commercialization activities and we will supply product to teva at a tiered purchase price, which is calculated as a percentage of net sales of the product (subject to adjustment in certain circumstances). manufacturing we currently manufacture bulk drug materials at our manufacturing facilities in rensselaer, new york, which consists of approximately 565,000 square feet of owned research, manufacturing, office, and warehouse space. we currently have approximately 101,000 liters of cell culture capacity, and are approved by the fda and other regulatory agencies to manufacture our marketed products at these facilities. we also own an approximately 445,000 square foot facility in limerick, ireland, which we acquired in 2014 and subsequently renovated to accommodate and support our growth and expand our manufacturing capacity. the facility has received certain manufacturing approvals by regulatory agencies, including the fda, and is in the process of further validation, as required by regulatory authorities, for the manufacture of our bulk drug products. certain raw materials or other products necessary for the manufacture and formulation of our products and product candidates are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. in addition, we rely on certain third parties to perform packaging, filling, finishing, labeling, distribution, laboratory testing, and other services related to the manufacture of our products and product candidates, and to supply various raw materials and other products. see part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to manufacturing and supply" for further information. among the conditions for regulatory marketing approval of a medicine is the requirement that the prospective manufacturer's quality control and manufacturing procedures conform to the good manufacturing practice (gmp) regulations of the health authority. in complying with standards set forth in these regulations, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money, and effort in the 16 table of contents areas of production and quality control to ensure full technical compliance. manufacturing establishments, both foreign and domestic, are also subject to inspections by or under the authority of the fda and by other national, federal, state, and local agencies. sales and marketing we have a new products marketing and planning group, a market research group, and a market access group to evaluate commercial opportunities for our targets and drug candidates, assess the competitive environment, and analyze the commercial potential of our product portfolio, and prepare for market launch of new products. these groups are fully functional to support our product and product candidates that we are independently developing and/or commercializing, and also work closely with our collaborators for co-developed products to develop marketing plans and forecasts and to develop and execute pre-launch market development programs. we also have a full-service commercialization group to handle various aspects of our commercial programs. the group includes experienced professionals in the fields of marketing, communications, professional education, patient education and advocacy, reimbursement and market access, trade and distribution, commercial operations, commercial analytics, market research, and forecasting. moreover, for our marketed products, we have hired, trained, and deployed a field-based organization including regional directors, medical specialists, and reimbursement managers, each typically with a number of years of experience in the biopharmaceutical industry in a variety of therapeutic areas including oncology, ophthalmology, immunology, and inflammation. we have approximately 600 field-based employees in the united states. customers we sell eylea in the united states to several distributors and specialty pharmacies. we sell arcalyst in the united states to two specialty pharmacies. under these distribution models, the distributors and specialty pharmacies generally take physical delivery of product. for eylea, the distributors and specialty pharmacies generally sell the product directly to healthcare providers, whereas for arcalyst, the specialty pharmacies sell the product directly to patients. we had sales to three customers (besse medical, a subsidiary of amerisourcebergen corporation; mckesson corporation; and curascript sd specialty distribution, a subsidiary of express scripts) that each accounted for more than 10% of total gross product revenue for the year ended december 31, 2017. on a combined basis, our product sales to these customers accounted for approximately 99% of our gross product revenue for the year ended december 31, 2017. we are also a party to collaboration agreements with bayer and sanofi, whereby our collaborator is responsible for recording product sales of eylea outside the united states and global sales of dupixent, praluent, and kevzara, respectively. competition we face substantial competition from pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and chemical companies. many of our competitors have substantially greater research, preclinical, and clinical product development, manufacturing capabilities, and financial, marketing, and human resources than we do. competition from smaller competitors may also be or become more significant if those competitors acquire or discover patentable inventions, form collaborative arrangements, or merge with large pharmaceutical companies. even if we are able to commercialize additional product candidates, one or more of our competitors may have brought a competitive product to market earlier than us or may have obtained or obtain patent protection that dominates or adversely affects our activities or products. our ability to compete depends, to a great extent, on how fast we can develop safe and effective product candidates, complete clinical testing and approval processes, and supply commercial quantities of the product to the market. competition among product candidates approved for sale is based on efficacy, safety, reliability, availability, price, patent position, and other factors. 17 table of contents eylea. the following table provides an overview of the competitive landscape for eylea: competitor product/product candidate commercial or development status competitor indication territory lucentis (ranibizumab) approved novartis ag and genentech/roche wet amd, dme, macular edema following rvo (including crvo and brvo), diabetic retinopathy in patients with dme, and mcnv worldwide avastin (bevacizumab) (off-label) used to treat wet amd, dme, and macular edema following rvo genentech/roche wet amd, dme, and macular edema following rvo worldwide ozurdex (dexamethasone intravitreal implant) approved allergan, plc dme, rvo worldwide iluvien (fluocinolone acetonide intravitreal implant) approved alimera sciences, inc. dme united states, eu conbercept approved in china for wet amd in development for other eye indications chengdu kanghong pharmaceutical group wet amd china brolucizumab (rth258), a single chain antibody fragment directed against vegf-a in development (two non-inferiority phase 3 trials comparing rth258 and eylea met their primary endpoint in june 2017) novartis wet amd abicipar pegol (anti-vegf-a-darpin ) in development (non-inferiority phase 3 trial initiated in 2015 comparing dosing regimens of abicipar pegol and lucentis) allergan wet amd and related conditions rg7716, a bi-specific antibody targeting anti-vegf and ang2 in development (phase 2) genentech/roche wet amd, dme lucentis port delivery system in development (phase 2) genentech/roche wet amd and related conditions x-82, an orally administered small molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitor in development for use in combination with eylea or lucentis in development (phase 2) tyrogenex wet amd and related conditions de-122, an anti-endoglin antibody in development for use in combination with eylea or lucentis in development (phase 2) santen pharmaceuticals co. ltd./ tracon pharmaceuticals, inc. wet amd and related conditions gb-102, an intravitreally administered depot formulation of the small molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitor, sunitinib in development (phase 2) graybug vision, inc. wet amd and related conditions 18 table of contents eylea (continued): competitor product/product candidate commercial or development status competitor indication territory opt-302, a vegfr-3 large molecule trap in development for use in combination with eylea or lucentis in development (phase 2b) opthea limited wet amd and related conditions m710, a biosimilar to eylea in development (phase 3) momenta pharmaceuticals, inc. (in partnership with mylan n.v.) wet amd and related conditions chs-3351, a biosimilar to lucentis in development (phase 1) coherus biosciences, inc. wet amd and related conditions pf582, a biosimilar to lucentis in development (phase 1/2 completed in august 2016) pfenex inc. wet amd and related conditions fyb201, a biosimilar to lucentis in development (phase 3) formycon ag (in collaboration with bioeq gmbh) wet amd and related conditions sb11, a biosimilar to lucentis in development (phase 3) samsung bioepis co., ltd. wet amd and related conditions razumab, a biosimilar to lucentis approved in india for wet amd and related conditions intas phamaceuticals limited wet amd and related conditions india the table above is not exhaustive. for additional information regarding the substantial competition eylea faces, see also part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to commercialization of eylea - the commercial success of eylea is subject to strong competition " and part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to commercialization of products - our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if any are approved for marketing, may face significant competition. " 19 table of contents dupixent. the following table provides an overview of the competitive landscape for dupixent: competitor product/product candidate commercial or development status competitor indication territory eucrisa (crisaborole) approved pfizer mild-to-moderate atopic dermatitis united states xolair (omalizumab) approved roche/novartis asthma worldwide nucala (mepolizumab) approved for asthma in development (phase 2) for atopic dermatitis glaxosmithkline (gsk) asthma and atopic dermatitis worldwide cinqair (reslizumab) approved teva asthma worldwide fasenra (benralizumab) approved astrazeneca asthma united states, eu tralokinumab, an anti-il-13 antibody in development (phase 3) astrazeneca/ leo pharma inc. atopic dermatitis baricitinib, an orally administered jak inhibitor in development (phase 3) eli lilly and company/incyte corporation atopic dermatitis pf-04965842, an orally administered jak inhibitor in development (phase 3) pfizer atopic dermatitis upadacitinib, an orally administered jak inhibitor in development (phase 3) abbvie atopic dermatitis fevipiprant, an orally administered crth2 antagonist in development (phase 3) novartis asthma tezepelumab, an anti-tslp antibody in development (phase 3) amgen inc./astrazeneca asthma anb-020, an anti-il-33 antibody in development (phase 2) anaptysbio, inc. asthma and atopic dermatitis lebrikizumab, an anti-il-13 antibody in development (phase 2) dermira, inc./roche atopic dermatitis nemolizumab, an anti-il-31r antibody in development (phase 2) galderma s.a. atopic dermatitis cnto7610, an anti-st2 antibody in development (phase 2 for asthma and phase 1 for atopic dermatitis) johnson &amp; johnson asthma and atopic dermatitis rg6149, an anti-st2 antibody in development (phase 2) roche asthma medi-9314, an anti-il-4r antibody in development (phase 1) astrazeneca atopic dermatitis prs-060, an inhaled anticalin targeting il-4r in development (phase 1) astrazeneca/ pieris pharmaceuticals, inc. asthma the table above is not exhaustive. for additional information regarding the substantial competition dupixent faces, see also part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to commercialization of our antibody-based products (dupixent, praluent, and kevzara) - the commercial success of dupixent, praluent, and kevzara is subject to strong competition. " 20 table of contents praluent. the following table provides an overview of the competitive landscape for praluent: competitor product/product candidate commercial or development status competitor indication territory repatha (evolocumab) approved amgen (1) reduce the risk of myocardial infarction, stroke, and coronary revascularization in adults with established cardiovascular disease, (2) primary hyperlipidemia, and (3) hofh worldwide inclisiran (aln-pcssc) in development (phase 2) alnylam pharmaceuticals (in collaboration with the medicines company) rnai molecule against pcsk9 (injectable, small molecule) etc-1002 (bempedoic acid) in development (phase 3) esperion therapeutics, inc. acl-inhibitor (oral, small molecule) gemcabene in development (phase 2) gemphire therapeutics inc. cholesterol synthesis inhibitor (oral, small molecule) the table above is not exhaustive. for additional information regarding the substantial competition praluent faces, see also part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to commercialization of our antibody-based products (dupixent, praluent, and kevzara) - the commercial success of dupixent, praluent, and kevzara is subject to strong competition. " 21 table of contents kevzara. the following table provides an overview of the competitive landscape for kevzara: competitor product/product candidate commercial or development status competitor indication territory actemra (tocilizumab) approved roche rheumatoid arthritis worldwide orencia (abatacept) approved bristol-myers squibb company rheumatoid arthritis worldwide xeljanz (tofacitinib) approved pfizer rheumatoid arthritis worldwide olumiant (baricitinib) approved eli lilly/incyte rheumatoid arthritis eu olokizumab, an anti-il-6 antibody in development (phase 3) r-pharm rheumatoid arthritis upadacitinib, an orally administered jak inhibitor in development (phase 3) abbvie rheumatoid arthritis filgotinib, an orally administered jak inhibitor in development (phase 3) gilead sciences, inc./ galapagos nv rheumatoid arthritis peficitinib, an orally administered jak inhibitor in development (phase 3) astellas pharma inc. rheumatoid arthritis clazakizumab, an anti-il-6 antibody in development (phase 2) vitaeris inc. rheumatoid arthritis vobarilizumab, an anti-il-6r antibody fragment in development (phase 2) ablynx nv rheumatoid arthritis gerilimzumab, an anti-il-6 antibody in development (phase 1) bird rock bio, inc. rheumatoid arthritis the table above is not exhaustive. for additional information regarding the substantial competition kevzara faces, see also part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to commercialization of our antibody-based products (dupixent, praluent, and kevzara) - the commercial success of dupixent, praluent, and kevzara is subject to strong competition. " 22 table of contents antibodies in development. our clinical candidates in development are all fully human antibodies which were generated using our velocimmune technology. our antibody generation technologies and clinical candidates face competition from many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies using various technologies. numerous other companies are developing therapeutic antibody products. companies have generated therapeutic products that are currently in development or on the market that are derived from recombinant dna that comprise human antibody sequences. astellas has licensed our velocimmune technology to use it as part of their internal antibody development programs. the following table provides an overview of the competitive landscape for our antibody programs that are in late-stage clinical development: regeneron antibody program competitor competitor product/product candidate commercial or development status target cemiplimab (phase 2/3) target: pd-1 bristol-myers squibb opdivo (nivolumab) approved antibody against pd-1 merck &amp; co., inc. keytruda (pembrolizumab) approved antibody against pd-1 pfizer/ merck bavencio (avelumab) approved antibody against pdl-1 roche tecentriq (atezolizumab) approved antibody against pdl-1 astrazeneca imfinzi (durvalumab) approved antibody against pdl-1 novartis pdr001 in development (phase 3) antibody against pd-1 celgene corporation/ beigene ltd. bgb-a317 in development (phase 3) antibody against pd-1 agenus inc. agen2034 in development (phase 1) antibody against pd-1 tesaro, inc./anaptysbio tsr-042 in development (phase 1) antibody against pd-1 pfizer pfe-06801591 in development (phase 1) antibody against pd-1 (subcutaneous formulation) fasinumab (phase 3) target: ngf pfizer/eli lilly tanezumab in development (phase 3) antibody against ngf evinacumab (phase 3) target: angptl3 ionis pharmaceuticals, inc./akcea therapeutics, inc. akcea-angptl3-lrx in development (phase 2) ligand conjugated antisense drug against angptl3 the table above is not exhaustive and focuses on antibody competitors. we are also aware of several companies developing or marketing small molecules that may compete with our antibody product candidates in various indications, if such product candidates obtain regulatory approval in those indications. for additional information regarding our antibody programs and the substantial competition they face, see part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to commercialization of products - our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if any are approved for marketing, may face significant competition ." other areas. many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are attempting to discover new therapeutics for indications in which we invest substantial time and resources. in these and related areas, intellectual property rights have been sought and certain rights have been granted to competitors and potential competitors of ours, and we may be at a substantial competitive disadvantage in such areas as a result of, among other things, our lack of experience, trained personnel, and expertise. a number of corporate and academic competitors are involved in the discovery and development of novel therapeutics that are the focus of other research or development programs we are now conducting. some of these competitors are currently conducting advanced preclinical and clinical research programs in these areas. these and other competitors may have established substantial intellectual property and other competitive advantages. 23 table of contents if any of these or other competitors announces a successful clinical study involving a product that may be competitive with one of our product candidates or the grant of marketing approval by a regulatory agency for a competitive product, such developments may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, cash flows, or future prospects. we also compete with academic institutions, governmental agencies, and other public or private research organizations, which conduct research, seek patent protection, and establish collaborative arrangements for the development and marketing of products that would provide royalties or other consideration for use of their technology. these institutions are becoming more active in seeking patent protection and licensing arrangements to collect royalties or other consideration for use of the technology they have developed. products developed in this manner may compete directly with products we develop. we also compete with others in acquiring technology from these institutions, agencies, and organizations. patents, trademarks, and trade secrets our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain patents, maintain trade secret protection, and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties (see part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to intellectual property and market exclusivity - we may be restricted in our development, manufacturing, and/or commercialization activities by patents or other proprietary rights of others, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed such patents or rights "; and note 17 to our consolidated financial statements). our policy is to file patent applications to protect technology, inventions, and improvements that we consider important to our business and operations. we hold an ownership interest in a number of issued patents in the united states and foreign countries with respect to our products and technologies. in addition, we hold an ownership interest in hundreds of patent applications in the united states and foreign countries. our patent portfolio includes granted patents and pending patent applications covering our velocisuite technologies, including our velocimmune mouse platform which produces fully human antibodies. our issued patents covering these technologies generally expire between 2020 and 2030. however, we continue to file patent applications directed to improvements to these technology platforms. our patent portfolio also includes issued patents and pending applications relating to commercialized products and our product candidates in clinical development. these patents cover the proteins and dna encoding the proteins, manufacturing patents, method of use patents, and pharmaceutical compositions. the following table describes our u.s. patents and european patents (ep) that we currently consider of primary importance to our marketed products, including the territory, patent number, general subject matter class, and expected expiration dates. the noted expiration dates include any patent term adjustments. certain of these patents may also be entitled to term extensions. we continue to pursue additional patents and patent term extensions in the united states and other jurisdictions covering various aspects of our products that may, if issued, extend exclusivity beyond the expiration of the patents listed in the table below. one or more patents with the same or earlier expiry date may fall under the same "general subject matter class" for certain products and are not separately listed. 24 table of contents product molecule territory patent no. general subject matter class expiration eylea aflibercept us 7,070,959 composition of matter june 16, 2023 * us 8,092,803 formulation june 21, 2027 us 9,254,338 methods of treatment may 22, 2032 ep 1183353 composition of matter may 23, 2025 ** ep 2364691 formulation june 14, 2027 ep 1544299 methods of treatment may 23, 2020 dupixent dupilumab us 7,608,693 composition of matter october 2, 2027 us 8,945,559 formulation october 17, 2032 us 8,075,887 methods of treatment april 17, 2028 us 8,337,839 methods of treatment october 2, 2027 us 9,290,574 methods of treatment july 10, 2034 us 9,574,004 methods of treatment december 22, 2033 ep 2356151 composition of matter october 27, 2029 praluent *** alirocumab us 8,062,640 composition of matter december 15, 2029 us 8,795,669 formulation july 27, 2032 us 8,357,371 methods of treatment december 21, 2029 us 9,550,837 methods of treatment december 15, 2029 us 9,724,411 methods of treatment january 15, 2031 ep 2358756 composition of matter december 15, 2029 kevzara sarilumab us 7,582,298 composition of matter january 4, 2028 us 9,173,880 formulation december 6, 2031 us 8,080,248 methods of treatment june 1, 2027 ep 2041177 composition of matter june 1, 2027 ep 2766039 methods of treatment october 10, 2032 * a patent term extension has been granted by the u.s. patent and trademark office, extending the original patent term (may 23, 2020), insofar as it covers eylea, to june 16, 2023. ** supplementary protection certificates have been granted in 14 european countries, extending the original patent term (may 23, 2020) in those countries to may 23, 2025, and are pending in nine additional european countries. *** see note 17 to our consolidated financial statements for information regarding the patent infringement proceedings relating to praluent, which may impact praluent's commercial availability in the united states and other jurisdictions. in addition, in the united states and certain other countries, our competitive position may be enhanced due to the availability of market exclusivity under relevant law (for additional information regarding market exclusivity, see part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to intellectual property and market exclusivity - loss or limitation of patent rights, and new regulatory pathways for biosimilar competition, could reduce the duration of market exclusivity for our products "). the effect of expiration of a patent relating to a particular product also depends upon other factors, such as the nature of the market and the position of the product in it, the growth of the market, the complexities and economics of the process for manufacture of the active ingredient of the product, and the requirements of new drug provisions of the federal food, drug and cosmetic act or similar laws and regulations in other countries. we also are the nonexclusive licensee of a number of additional patents and patent applications. these include fully paid-up and royalty-free licenses to certain patents relating to vegf receptor proteins, known as the davis-smyth patents, and other related technology patents for the prevention or treatment of human eye diseases and eye disorders through administration of eylea to the eye. patent law relating to the patentability and scope of claims in the biotechnology field is evolving and our patent rights are subject to this additional uncertainty. the degree of patent protection that will be afforded to our products in the united states and other important commercial markets is uncertain and is dependent upon the scope of protection decided upon by the patent offices, courts, and governments in these countries. there is no certainty that our existing patents or others, if obtained, will provide us protection from competition or provide commercial benefit. 25 table of contents others may independently develop similar products or processes to those developed by us, duplicate any of our products or processes or, if patents are issued to us, design around any products and processes covered by our patents. we expect to continue, when appropriate, to file product and process applications with respect to our inventions. however, we may not file any such applications or, if filed, the patents may not be issued. patents issued to or licensed by us may be infringed by the products or processes of others. defense and enforcement of our intellectual property rights is expensive and time consuming, even if the outcome is favorable to us. it is possible that patents issued or licensed to us will be successfully challenged, that a court may find that we are infringing validly issued patents of third parties, or that we may have to alter or discontinue the development of our products or pay licensing fees to take into account patent rights of third parties (see part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to intellectual property and market exclusivity - we may be restricted in our development, manufacturing, and/or commercialization activities by patents or other proprietary rights of others, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed such patents or rights "; and note 17 to our consolidated financial statements). government regulation regulation by government authorities in the united states and foreign countries is a significant factor in the research, development, manufacture, and marketing of our products and our product candidates. a summary of regulatory requirements that are relevant to our business is provided below. these include (i) preclinical requirements; (ii) product approval requirements; (iii) post-approval regulation; (iv) pricing and reimbursement requirements; and (v) other applicable requirements. for a description of material regulatory risks we face, please also refer to part i, item 1a. "risk factors." preclinical requirements the activities required before a product candidate may be marketed in the united states begin with preclinical tests. preclinical tests include laboratory evaluations and animal studies to assess the potential safety and efficacy of the product candidate and its formulations. preclinical trials must comply with the fda's good laboratory practices (glps) and the u.s. department of agriculture's animal welfare act. the results of these studies must be submitted to the fda as part of an ind, which must be reviewed by the fda before proposed clinical testing can begin. in other countries, the data are reviewed by regulatory authorities as part of our clinical trial applications. the fda or other regulatory authorities may ask for additional data in order to begin a clinical study. in addition, based on safety data that emerge from our studies, such regulatory authorities may put a study or an entire clinical development program on hold pending receipt of additional data. these actions by the fda or other regulatory authorities can result in a delay or termination of a clinical development program. product approval all of our product candidates will require regulatory approval before they can be commercialized. in particular, human therapeutic products are subject to rigorous preclinical and clinical trials and other pre-market approval requirements by the fda and foreign authorities. the structure and substance of the fda and foreign pharmaceutical regulatory practices evolve over time as government priorities change. the ultimate outcome and impact of such developments cannot be predicted. typically, clinical testing involves a three-phase process. in phase 1, trials are typically conducted with a small number of healthy volunteers to determine the early safety profile of the product candidate for treatment of the relevant disease. in phase 2, clinical trials are conducted with subjects afflicted with a specific disease or disorder to provide enough data to evaluate the preliminary safety, tolerability, and efficacy of different potential doses of the product candidate. in phase 3, large-scale clinical trials are conducted with patients afflicted with the specific disease or disorder in order to provide enough data to understand the efficacy and safety profile of the product candidate, as required by the fda. if concerns arise about the safety of the product candidate, the fda can stop clinical trials by placing them on a "clinical hold." the results of the preclinical and clinical testing of a biologic product candidate are then submitted to the fda in the form of a bla for evaluation to determine whether the product candidate may be approved for commercial sale under the public health service act. under the prescription drug user fee act, we must pay fees to the fda for review of any bla, which can exceed $2 million. in responding to a bla, the fda may grant marketing approval, request additional information, or deny the application. before approving a new drug or biologic product, the fda also requires that the facilities at which the product will be manufactured or advanced through the supply chain be in compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cgmp, requirements and regulations governing the manufacture, shipment, and storage of the product. the fda also can audit the sponsor of the bla to determine if the clinical studies were conducted in compliance with current good clinical practice, or cgcp, requirements. any approval required by the fda for any of our product candidates may not be obtained on a timely basis, or at all. the designation of a clinical trial as being of a particular phase is not necessarily indicative that such a trial will be sufficient to satisfy the parameters of a particular phase, and a clinical trial may contain elements of more than one phase notwithstanding the designation of the trial as being of a particular phase. the results of preclinical studies or early stage clinical trials may not predict long-term safety or efficacy of our compounds when they are tested or used more broadly in humans. 26 table of contents approval of a product candidate by comparable regulatory authorities in foreign countries is generally required prior to commencement of marketing of the product in those countries. the approval procedure varies among countries and may involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain such approval may differ from that required for fda approval. approval by a regulatory authority in one jurisdiction does not guarantee approval by comparable regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions. various federal, state, and foreign statutes and regulations also govern or influence the research, manufacture, safety, labeling, storage, record keeping, marketing, transport, and other aspects of pharmaceutical product candidates. the lengthy process of seeking these approvals and the compliance with applicable statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial resources. any failure by us or our collaborators or licensees to obtain, or any delay in obtaining, regulatory approvals could adversely affect the manufacturing or marketing of our products and our ability to receive product or royalty revenue. for additional information regarding u.s. and foreign regulatory approval processes and requirements, see part i, item 1a, "risk factors - risks related to maintaining approval of our marketed products and the development and obtaining approval of our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products - obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval for drug products is costly, time-consuming, and highly uncertain. " post-approval regulation the fda and comparable regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions may also require us to conduct additional clinical trials after granting approval of a product. the fda has the explicit authority to require postmarketing studies (also referred to as post-approval or phase 4 studies), labeling changes based on new safety information, and compliance with fda-approved risk evaluation and mitigation strategies. following approval, the fda regulates the marketing and promotion of our products, which must comply with the food, drug, and cosmetic act and applicable fda implementing standards. the fda's review of promotional activities includes healthcare provider-directed and direct-to-consumer advertising as well as sales representatives' communications. the fda may take enforcement action for promoting unapproved uses of a product or other violations of its advertising and promotion laws and regulations. see part i, item 1a, "risk factors - regulatory and litigation risks - if we market and sell approved products in a way that violates federal or state healthcare laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties ." adverse-event reporting and submission of periodic reports is required following marketing approval. we may be subject to audits by the fda and other regulatory authorities to ensure that we are complying with the applicable requirements. in addition, we and our third-party providers are required to maintain compliance with cgmps, and are subject to inspections by the fda or comparable regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions to confirm such compliance. changes of suppliers or modifications of methods of manufacturing may require amending our application(s) to the fda or such comparable foreign regulatory authorities and acceptance of the change by the fda or such comparable foreign regulatory authorities prior to release of product(s). prescription drug manufacturers in the u.s. must comply with applicable provisions of the drug supply chain security act and provide and receive product tracing information, maintain appropriate licenses, ensure they only work with other properly licensed entities, and have procedures in place to identify and properly handle suspect and illegitimate products. we may also be subject to state regulations related to the manufacturing and distribution of our products. failure to comply with these laws and regulations may lead the fda and comparable regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions to take regulatory action, including suspending manufacturing or withdrawing their approval of a product. pricing and reimbursement sales in the united states of our marketed products are dependent, in large part, on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payers, including private payer healthcare and insurance programs, health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit management companies, and government programs such as medicare and medicaid. sales of our marketed products in other countries are dependent, in large part, on coverage and reimbursement mechanisms and programs administered by health authorities in those countries. see part i, item 1a, "risk factors - risks related to commercialization of products - the successful commercialization of our marketed products, as well as our late-stage product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if approved, will depend on obtaining and maintaining coverage and reimbursement for use of these products from third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid in the united states, and these payers may not cover or adequately reimburse for use of our products or may do so at levels that make our products uncompetitive and/or unprofitable, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. " medicaid is a joint federal and state program that is administered by the states for low income and disabled beneficiaries. under the medicaid drug rebate program, we are required to pay a rebate for each unit of product reimbursed by the state medicaid programs. the amount of the rebate is established by law and is adjusted upward if average manufacture price (amp) increases more than inflation (measured by the consumer price index - urban). the rebate amount is calculated each quarter based on our report of current amp and best price for each of our products to cms. the requirements for calculating amp and best price are 27 table of contents complex. we are required to report any revisions to amp or best price previously reported within a certain period, which revisions could affect our rebate liability for prior quarters. in addition, if we fail to provide information timely or we are found to have knowingly submitted false information to the government, the statute governing the medicaid drug rebate program provides for civil monetary penalties. medicare is a federal program that is administered by the federal government that covers individuals age 65 and over as well as those with certain disabilities. medicare part b generally covers drugs that must be administered by physicians or other health care practitioners are provided in connection with certain durable medical equipment or are certain oral anti-cancer drugs and certain oral immunosuppressive drugs. medicare part b pays for such drugs under a payment methodology based on the average sales price (asp) of the drugs. manufacturers, including us, are required to provide asp information to cms on a quarterly basis. the manufacturer-submitted information is used to calculate medicare payment rates. if a manufacturer is found to have made a misrepresentation in the reporting of asp, the governing statute provides for civil monetary penalties. medicare part d provides coverage to enrolled medicare patients for self-administered drugs ( i.e. , drugs that are not administered by a physician). medicare part d is administered by private prescription drug plans approved by the u.s. government and, subject to detailed program rules and government oversight, each drug plan establishes its own medicare part d formulary for prescription drug coverage and pricing, which the drug plan may modify from time to time. the prescription drug plans negotiate pricing with manufacturers and pharmacies, and may condition formulary placement on the availability of manufacturer discounts. in addition, manufacturers, including us, are required to provide to cms a 50% discount on brand name prescription drugs utilized by medicare part d beneficiaries when those beneficiaries are in the coverage gap phase of the part d benefit design. our products are subject to discounted pricing when purchased by federal agencies via the federal supply schedule (fss). fss participation is required for our products to be covered and reimbursed by the veterans administration (va), department of defense, coast guard, and public health service (phs). coverage under medicaid, medicare, and the phs pharmaceutical pricing program is also conditioned upon fss participation. fss pricing is intended not to exceed the price that we charge our most-favored non-federal customer for a product. in addition, prices for drugs purchased by the va, department of defense (including drugs purchased by military personnel and dependents through the tricare retail pharmacy program), coast guard, and phs are subject to a cap on pricing equal to 76% of the non-federal average manufacturer price (non-famp). an additional discount applies if non-famp increases more than inflation (measured by the consumer price index - urban). in addition, if we fail to provide information timely or we are found to have knowingly submitted false information to the government, the governing statute provides for civil monetary penalties. to maintain coverage of our products under the medicaid drug rebate program and medicare part b, we are required to extend significant discounts to certain covered entities that purchase products under section 340b of the phs pharmaceutical pricing program. purchasers eligible for discounts include hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of financially needy patients, community health clinics, and other entities that receive certain types of grants under the public health service act. for all of our products, we must agree to charge a price that will not exceed the amount determined under statute (the "ceiling price") when we sell outpatient drugs to these covered entities. in addition, we may, but are not required to, offer these covered entities a price lower than the 340b ceiling price. the 340b discount formula is based on amp and is generally similar to the level of rebates calculated under the medicaid drug rebate program. private payor healthcare and insurance providers, health maintenance organizations, and pharmacy benefit managers in the united states are adopting more aggressive utilization management techniques and are increasingly requiring significant discounts and rebates from manufacturers as a condition to including products on formulary with favorable coverage and copayment/coinsurance. as a consequence, these payers may not cover or adequately reimburse for use of our products or may do so at levels that disadvantage them relative to competitive products. outside the united states, within the eu, our products are paid for by a variety of payors, with governments being the primary source of payment. government health authorities in the eu determine or influence reimbursement of products, and set prices or otherwise regulate pricing. negotiating prices with governmental authorities can delay commercialization of our products. governments may use a variety of cost-containment measures to control the cost of products, including price cuts, mandatory rebates, value-based pricing, and reference pricing ( i.e. , referencing prices in other countries or prices of competitive products and using those reference prices to set a price). budgetary pressures in many eu countries are continuing to cause governments to consider or implement various cost-containment measures, such as price freezes, increased price cuts and rebates, and expanded generic substitution and patient cost-sharing. 28 table of contents other regulatory requirements we are subject to health care "fraud and abuse" laws, such as the federal false claims act, the anti-kickback provisions of the federal social security act, and other state and federal laws and regulations. federal and state anti-kickback laws prohibit, among other things, payments or other remuneration to induce or reward someone to purchase, prescribe, endorse, or recommend a product that is reimbursed under federal or state healthcare programs. federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. see part i, item 1a, "risk factors - regulatory and litigation risks - if we market and sell approved products in a way that violates federal or state healthcare laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties ." our business activities outside of the united states are subject to the foreign corrupt practices act, or fcpa, and similar anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws, regulations or rules of other countries in which we operate, including the u.k. bribery act. see part i, item 1a, "risk factors - regulatory and litigation risks - risks from the improper conduct of employees, agents, contractors, or collaborators could adversely affect our reputation and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition ." numerous federal and state laws, including state security breach notification laws, state health information privacy laws, and federal and state consumer protection laws, govern the collection, use, and disclosure of personal information. in addition, most health care providers, including research institutions from which we or our collaborators obtain patient health information, are subject to privacy and security regulations promulgated under the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, or hipaa, as amended by the health information technology for economic and clinical health act. although we are not directly subject to hipaa other than with respect to providing certain employee benefits, we could potentially be subject to criminal penalties if we, our affiliates, or our agents knowingly obtain or disclose individually identifiable health information maintained by a hipaa-covered entity in a manner that is not authorized or permitted by hipaa. outside the united states, our clinical trial programs and research collaborations may implicate international data protection laws, including the eu data protection directive and the general data protection regulation (gdpr) that is replacing it. see part i, item 1a, "risk factors - regulatory and litigation risks - we face potential liability related to the privacy of health information we obtain from clinical trials sponsored by us or our collaborators, from research institutions and our collaborators, and directly from individuals ." in addition to the foregoing, our present business is, and our future business will be, subject to regulation under the united states atomic energy act, the clean air act, the clean water act, the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act, the national environmental policy act, the toxic substances control act, the resource conservation and recovery act, national restrictions, and other current and potential future local, state, federal, and foreign regulations. business segments we manage our business as one segment which includes all activities related to the discovery, development, and commercialization of medicines for the treatment of serious medical conditions. for financial information related to our one segment, see part ii, item 6. "selected financial data" and our consolidated financial statements and related notes. employees as of december 31, 2017, we had approximately 6,200 full-time employees. we believe that we have been successful in attracting skilled and experienced personnel in a highly competitive environment; however, competition for these personnel is intense. none of our personnel are covered by collective bargaining agreements and our management considers its relations with our employees to be good. corporate information we were incorporated in the state of new york in 1988 and publicly listed in 1991. our principal executive offices are located at 777 old saw mill river road, tarrytown, new york 10591, and our telephone number at that address is (914) 847-7000. we make available free of charge on or through our internet website ( http://www.regeneron.com ) our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the securities and exchange commission (sec). investors and other interested parties should note that we use our media and investor relations website ( http://newsroom.regeneron.com ) and our social media channels to publish important information about regeneron, including information that may be deemed material to investors. we encourage investors and other interested parties to review the information we may publish through our media and investor relations website and the social media channels listed on our media and investor relations website, in addition to our sec filings, press releases, conference calls, and webcasts. 29 table of contents item 1a. risk factors we operate in an environment that involves a number of significant risks and uncertainties. we caution you to read the following risk factors, which have affected, and/or in the future could affect, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. the risks described below include forward-looking statements, and actual events and our actual results may differ materially from these forward-looking statements. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. furthermore, additional risks and uncertainties are described under other captions in this report and should also be considered by our investors. risks related to commercialization of eylea we are substantially dependent on the success of eylea. if we or bayer are unable to continue to successfully commercialize eylea, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition will be materially harmed. eylea net sales represent a substantial portion of our revenues and this concentration of our net sales in a single product makes us substantially dependent on that product. for the years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016 , eylea net sales in the united states represented 63% and 68% of our total revenues, respectively. if we were to experience difficulty with the commercialization of eylea in the united states, if bayer were to experience any difficulty with the commercialization of eylea outside the united states, or if we and bayer are unable to maintain current marketing approvals of eylea, we may experience a reduction in revenue and may not be able to sustain profitability, and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be materially harmed. we expect that the continued commercial success of eylea will depend on many factors, including the following: effectiveness of the commercial strategy in and outside the united states for the marketing of eylea, including pricing strategy and the continued effectiveness of efforts to obtain, and the timing of obtaining, adequate third-party reimbursements; maintaining and successfully monitoring commercial manufacturing arrangements for eylea with third parties who perform fill/finish or other steps in the manufacture of eylea to ensure that they meet our standards and those of regulatory authorities, including the fda, which extensively regulate and monitor pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities; our ability to meet the demand for commercial supplies of eylea; our ability to differentiate eylea from lucentis and other competitive products, and the willingness of retinal specialists and patients to switch from lucentis or off-label use of repackaged avastin to eylea or to start treatment with eylea; sufficient coverage of, and reimbursement for, eylea by third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid in the united states and other government and private payers in the united states and foreign jurisdictions; our ability to maintain sales of eylea in the face of competitive products, including those currently in clinical development; the results of post-approval studies of eylea (whether conducted by us or by others and whether mandated by regulatory agencies or voluntary), and studies of other products that could implicate vegf inhibitors as a class or are perceived to do so; the effect of existing and new health care laws and regulations currently being considered or implemented in the united states, including reporting and disclosure requirements of such laws and regulations and the potential impact of such requirements on physician prescription practices; and risks associated with intellectual property of other parties and pending or future litigation relating thereto, as discussed under "risks related to intellectual property and market exclusivity" below. more detailed information about the risks related to the commercialization of eylea is provided in the risk factors below. 30 table of contents we and bayer are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight with respect to eylea. if we or bayer fail to maintain regulatory compliance for eylea, eylea marketing approval may be withdrawn, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. we and bayer are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight with respect to eylea for its currently approved indications in the united states, eu, and other countries where the product is approved. if we or bayer fail to maintain regulatory compliance for eylea for its currently approved indications (including for any of the reasons discussed below under "risks related to maintaining approval of our marketed products and the development and obtaining approval of our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products - obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval for drug products is costly, time-consuming, and highly uncertain "), eylea marketing approval may be withdrawn, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. failure to comply may also subject us to sanctions, product recalls, or withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications. see also "risks related to manufacturing and supply - if we fail to meet the stringent requirements of governmental regulation in the manufacture of drug products or product candidates, we could incur substantial remedial costs, delays in the development or approval of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products and/or in their commercial launch if they obtain regulatory approval, and a reduction in sales " below. serious complications or side effects in connection with the use of eylea could materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. serious complications or serious, unexpected side effects in connection with the use of eylea could materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. for additional information about some of these risks, see "risks related to maintaining approval of our marketed products and the development and obtaining approval of our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products - serious complications or side effects in connection with the use of our products and in clinical trials for our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products could cause our regulatory approvals to be revoked or limited or lead to delay or discontinuation of development of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, which could severely harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition " below. sales of eylea are dependent on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payers, and changes to such reimbursement may materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. our sales in the united states of eylea are dependent, in large part, on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payers, including private payer healthcare and insurance programs, health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit management companies, and government programs such as medicare and medicaid. sales of eylea in other countries are dependent, in large part, on similar programs in those countries. in the united states, there is an increased focus from the federal government and others on analyzing the impact of various regulatory programs on the federal deficit, which could result in increased pressure on federal programs to reduce costs, including limiting federal healthcare expenditures. for example, in september 2011 the office of inspector general (oig) of the department of health and human services issued a report entitled "review of medicare part b avastin and lucentis treatments for age-related macular degeneration" in which the oig details possible savings to the medicare program by using off-label, repackaged avastin rather than lucentis for the treatment of wet amd. a reduction in the availability or extent of reimbursement from u.s. government programs could have a material adverse effect on the sales of eylea. economic pressure on state budgets may also have a similar impact. in addition, other third-party payers (including pharmacy benefit management companies) are challenging the prices charged for healthcare products and increasingly limiting, and attempting to limit, both coverage and level of reimbursement for prescription drugs. since eylea is too expensive for most patients to afford without health insurance coverage, if adequate coverage and reimbursement by third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid in the united states, is not available, our ability to successfully commercialize eylea will be materially adversely impacted. our sales and potential profits and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be materially harmed. see also "risks related to commercialization of products - the successful commercialization of our marketed products, as well as our late-stage product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if approved, will depend on obtaining and maintaining coverage and reimbursement for use of these products from third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid in the united states, and these payers may not cover or adequately reimburse for use of our products or may do so at levels that make our products uncompetitive and/or unprofitable, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition " below. 31 table of contents the commercial success of eylea is subject to strong competition. the market for eye disease products is very competitive. for example, novartis and genentech/roche are collaborating on the commercialization and further development of a vegf antibody fragment, lucentis, for the treatment of various eye indications. lucentis is approved in one or more jurisdictions for the treatment of wet amd, macular edema following rvo (including crvo and brvo), dme, diabetic retinopathy, and mcnv. in addition, we are aware of several companies developing biosimilar versions of eylea. for example, momenta pharmaceuticals (in partnership with mylan) is developing m710 (currently in a phase 3 trial in patients with wet amd). competitors are also exploring the development of a biosimilar version of lucentis; in particular, pfenex is developing pf582 (a phase 1b/2a trial in patients with wet amd has been completed), formycon (in collaboration with bioeq) is developing fyb201 (currently in a phase 3 trial in patients with wet amd), and samsung bioepis is developing sb11 (currently in a phase 3 trial in patients with wet amd). other competitive or potentially competitive products include allergan's ozurdex (approved by the fda for the treatment of macular edema following rvo and for the treatment of dme) and alimera sciences' iluvien (approved by the fda for the treatment of dme in patients who have been previously treated with a course of corticosteroids and did not have a clinically significant rise in intraocular pressure), both of which are intravitreal implants of corticosteroids. many other companies are working on the development of product candidates and extended delivery devices for the potential treatment of wet amd, dme, and rvo, including those that act by blocking vegf and vegf receptors, as well as small interfering ribonucleic acids (sirnas) that modulate gene expression. for example, genentech/roche is developing a lucentis port delivery system implant (currently in a phase 2 study in patients with wet amd). novartis is developing rth258 (esba1008), a humanized monoclonal single-chain fv (scfv) antibody fragment targeting vegf-a for wet amd, and announced in june 2017 that two phase 3 studies of rth258 met their primary endpoint of non-inferiority to eylea. allergan is developing abicipar pegol for wet amd and related conditions (currently studied in phase 3 trials against lucentis as a comparator drug). additionally, companies are developing products (or combinations of products) to treat wet amd that act by blocking vegf and vegf receptors, as well as other targets (for example, ang2). genentech/roche is developing a bi-specific antibody (rg7716) targeting both vegf and ang2 for wet amd and dme (currently in phase 2 trials for both indications). products that are being developed for use in combination with eylea and/or lucentis may also pose a competitive threat. opthea is developing opt-302, a vegfr-3 large molecule trap in combination with lucentis in a phase 2 trial for wet amd. santen (in partnership with tracon) is developing de-122, an anti-endoglin antibody in combination with lucentis in a phase 2 trial for wet amd. small-molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitors that have activity against vegf may also compete against eylea, if approved for wet amd and/or related conditions. graybug is developing gb-102, an intravitreally administered depot formulation of the small molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitor, sunitinib, in a phase 1/2 trial for wet amd. tyrogenex is developing x-82, an orally administered small-molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitor, in a phase 2 trial in combination with an anti-vegf. competitors are also developing other eye-drop formulations, devices, oral therapies, and gene/cell therapies for various indications that, if approved, would compete with eylea in one or more of its currently approved indications. in addition, ophthalmologists are using off-label, third-party repackaged versions of genentech/roche's approved vegf antagonist, avastin, for the treatment of wet amd, dme, and rvo. the relatively low cost of therapy with repackaged avastin presents a significant competitive challenge in these indications. avastin is also being evaluated in eye diseases in clinical trials in certain countries. furthermore, lucentis and off-label use of repackaged avastin present significant competitive challenges as doctors and patients have had significant experience using these medicines. the relatively low cost of repackaged avastin in treating patients may exacerbate the competitive challenge which eylea faces in the eye indications for which it is approved. amgen (in collaboration with allergan) has obtained regulatory approval of a biosimilar version of avastin in the united states and the eu, and other competitors are also developing a biosimilar version of avastin. off-label use of any such biosimilar in one or more of the eye indications for which eylea is approved may put further pressure on the commercialization of eylea. finally, zaltrap has not been manufactured and formulated for use in intravitreal injections, and there is a risk that third parties may attempt to repackage zaltrap for off-label use and sale for the treatment of wet amd and other diseases of the eye, which would present a potential low-cost competitive threat to eylea for its approved indications. we are aware of claims by third parties, including those based on published clinical data, that zaltrap (ziv-aflibercept) may be safely administered to the eye. see also "risks related to commercialization of products - we may be unsuccessful in continuing the commercialization of our marketed products or in commercializing our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if approved, which would materially and adversely affect our business, profitability, and future prospects " below and part i. item 1. "business - competition" of this report. we rely on our collaboration with bayer for commercializing eylea. while we have established our own sales and marketing organization for eylea in the united states for its currently approved indications, we have no sales, marketing, commercial, or distribution capabilities for eylea outside the united states. 32 table of contents under the terms of our license and collaboration agreement with bayer (which is terminable by bayer at any time upon six or twelve months' advance notice, depending on the circumstances giving rise to termination), we rely on bayer for sales, marketing, and distribution of eylea in countries outside the united states. if we and bayer are unsuccessful in continuing to commercialize eylea, our ability to sustain profitability would be materially impaired. we have limited commercial capabilities outside the united states and would have to develop or outsource these capabilities. therefore, termination of the bayer collaboration agreement would create substantial new and additional risks to the successful commercialization of eylea, particularly outside the united states. for additional information regarding our collaboration with bayer, see "risks related to our reliance on third parties - if our collaboration with bayer for eylea is terminated, or bayer materially breaches its obligations thereunder, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition, and our ability to continue to develop eylea and commercialize eylea outside the united states in the time expected, or at all, would be materially harmed " below. sales of eylea recorded by us and bayer could be reduced by imports from countries where eylea may be available at lower prices. our sales of eylea in the united states and bayer's sales of eylea in other countries may be reduced if eylea is imported into those countries from lower priced markets, whether legally or illegally (a practice known as parallel trading or reimportation). parallel traders (who may repackage or otherwise alter the original product or sell it through alternative channels such as mail order or the internet) take advantage of the price differentials between markets arising from factors including sales costs, market conditions (such as intermediate trading stages), tax rates, or national regulation of prices. under our arrangement with bayer, pricing and reimbursement for eylea outside the united states is the responsibility of bayer. prices for eylea in jurisdictions outside the united states are based on local market economics and competition and are likely to differ from country to country. in the united states, prices for pharmaceuticals are generally higher than in the bordering nations of canada and mexico and our sales of eylea in the united states may be reduced if eylea marketed in those nations is imported into the united states. parallel-trading practices also are of particular relevance to the eu, where they have been encouraged by the current regulatory framework. these types of imports may exert pressure on the pricing of eylea in a particular market or reduce our or bayer's sales, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations. in addition, there are proposals to legalize the import of pharmaceuticals from outside the united states into the united states. if such proposals were implemented, our future revenues derived from eylea sales could be reduced. 33 table of contents risks related to commercialization of our antibody-based products (dupixent, praluent, and kevzara) if we or sanofi are unable to successfully commercialize dupixent, praluent, or kevzara, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed. we expect that the commercial success of dupixent, praluent, and kevzara will depend on many factors, including the following (as applicable): effectiveness of the commercial strategy in and outside the united states for the marketing of these products, including pricing strategy and the effectiveness of efforts to obtain, and the timing of obtaining, adequate third-party reimbursements; our and sanofi's ability to differentiate these products from competitive products (including, in the case of dupixent, pfizer's xeljanz and eli lilly's olumiant; in the case of praluent, amgen's repatha; and, in the case of kevzara, genentech/roche's actemra), as well as product candidates currently in clinical development (such as, in the case of dupixent, the antibody product candidates being developed by roche, leo pharma, astrazeneca, galderma, anaptysbio, and amgen); the outcome of the pending patent infringement proceedings relating to dupixent (described further in note 17 to our consolidated financial statements), and other risks relating to dupixent associated with intellectual property of other parties and pending or future litigation relating thereto, as discussed under "risks related to intellectual property and market exclusivity" below; the outcome of the pending patent infringement proceedings relating to praluent initiated by amgen against us and sanofi (described further in note 17 to our consolidated financial statements), and other risks relating to praluent associated with intellectual property of other parties and pending or future litigation relating thereto, as discussed under "risks related to intellectual property and market exclusivity" below; sufficient coverage of, and reimbursement for, these products by third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid in the united states and other government and private payers in the united states and foreign jurisdictions; payer restrictions on eligible patient populations and the reimbursement process, both in the united states and abroad; the results of post-approval studies, whether conducted by us or by others and whether mandated by regulatory agencies or voluntary (including, in the case of praluent, the odyssey outcomes trial prospectively assessing the potential of praluent to demonstrate cardiovascular benefit), and studies of other products that could implicate an entire class of products or are perceived to do so; our ability to meet the demand for commercial supplies of these products; the effect of existing and new health care laws and regulations currently being considered or implemented in the united states, including reporting and disclosure requirements of such laws and regulations and the potential impact of such requirements on physician prescription practices; and maintaining and successfully monitoring commercial manufacturing arrangements for these products with parties who perform fill/finish or other steps in the manufacture of these products to ensure that they meet our standards and those of regulatory authorities, including the fda, which extensively regulate and monitor pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities. more detailed information about the risks related to the commercialization of dupixent, praluent, and kevzara is provided in the risk factors below. we and sanofi are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight with respect to dupixent, praluent, and kevzara. if we or sanofi fail to maintain regulatory compliance for dupixent, praluent, or kevzara, the applicable marketing approval may be withdrawn, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. we and sanofi are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight with respect to dupixent, praluent, and kevzara for their currently approved indications in the united states, eu, and other countries. if we or sanofi fail to maintain regulatory compliance for dupixent, praluent, or kevzara for the currently approved indications (including because the product does not meet the relevant endpoints of any required post-approval studies, such as, in the case of praluent, the odyssey outcomes trial, or for any of the other reasons discussed below under "risks related to maintaining approval of our marketed products and the development and obtaining approval of our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products - obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval for drug products is costly, time-consuming, and highly uncertain "), the applicable marketing approval may be withdrawn, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. failure to comply may also subject us to sanctions, product recalls, or withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications. see also "risks related to manufacturing and supply - if we fail to meet the stringent requirements of governmental regulation in the manufacture of drug products or product candidates, we could incur substantial remedial costs, delays in the development or approval of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products and/or in their commercial launch if they obtain regulatory approval, and a reduction in sales " below. serious complications or side effects in connection with the use of dupixent, praluent, or kevzara could materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. 34 table of contents serious complications or serious, unexpected side effects in connection with the use of dupixent, praluent, or kevzara could materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. for additional information about some of these risks, see "risks related to maintaining approval of our marketed products and the development and obtaining approval of our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products - serious complications or side effects in connection with the use of our products and in clinical trials for our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products could cause our regulatory approvals to be revoked or limited or lead to delay or discontinuation of development of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, which could severely harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition " below. sales of dupixent, praluent, and kevzara are dependent on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payers in the united states and other countries, and changes to such reimbursement may materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. sales in the united states of dupixent, praluent, and kevzara are dependent, in large part, on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payers, including private payer healthcare and insurance programs, health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit management companies, and government programs such as medicare and medicaid. sales of dupixent, praluent, and kevzara in other countries are dependent, in large part, on similar reimbursement mechanisms and programs in those countries. government and other third-party payers (including pharmacy benefit management companies) are challenging the prices charged for healthcare products and increasingly limiting, and attempting to limit, both coverage and level of reimbursement for prescription drugs, such as by requiring outcomes-based or other pay-for-performance pricing arrangements. they are also imposing restrictions on eligible patient populations and the reimbursement process, including by means of required prior authorizations and utilization management criteria. for example, pharmacy benefit management companies often develop formularies to reduce their cost for medications. the breadth of the products covered by formularies varies considerably from one pharmacy benefit management company to another. failure to be included in such formularies or to achieve favorable formulary status may negatively impact the utilization and market share of dupixent, praluent, and kevzara. if dupixent, praluent, or kevzara is not included within an adequate number of formularies, adequate reimbursement levels are not provided, the eligible insured patient population for dupixent, praluent, or kevzara is limited, or a key payer refuses to provide reimbursement for dupixent, praluent, or kevzara in a particular jurisdiction altogether, this could have a material adverse effect on our and sanofi's ability to commercialize the applicable product. in the united states, there also is an increased focus from the federal government and others on analyzing the impact of various regulatory programs on the federal deficit, which could result in increased pressure on federal programs to reduce costs, including limiting federal healthcare expenditures. economic pressure on state budgets may also have a similar impact. a reduction in the availability or extent of reimbursement from u.s. government programs could have a material adverse effect on the sales of dupixent, praluent, and kevzara. since dupixent, praluent, and kevzara are too expensive for most patients to afford without health insurance coverage, if adequate coverage and reimbursement by third-party payers in the united states and other countries, including medicare and medicaid in the united states, is not available, our ability to successfully commercialize the applicable product will be materially adversely impacted. our sales and potential profits and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be materially harmed. see also "risks related to commercialization of products - the successful commercialization of our marketed products, as well as our late-stage product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if approved, will depend on obtaining and maintaining coverage and reimbursement for use of these products from third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid in the united states, and these payers may not cover or adequately reimburse for use of our products or may do so at levels that make our products uncompetitive and/or unprofitable, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition " below. the commercial success of dupixent, praluent, and kevzara is subject to strong competition. there is significant actual and potential future competition for dupixent. a number of companies are developing antibodies that, if approved, may compete with dupixent in its current or potential future indications, including roche (in collaboration with dermira) (an antibody against il-13); leo pharma (in collaboration with astrazeneca ) (il-13 antibody tralokinumab being developed in the atopic dermatitis indication); astrazeneca (antibodies against il-4r and il-5r, as well as il-13 antibody tralokinumab being developed in the asthma indication); galderma (an antibody against il-31r); anaptysbio (an antibody against il-33); and amgen (in collaboration with astrazeneca) (an antibody against thymic stromal lymphopoietin, or tslp). gsk's nucala and teva's cinqair, both of which are antibodies against il-5, may also compete with dupixent in its current or potential future indications. we are also aware of companies developing or marketing small molecules that may compete with dupixent in its current or potential future indications. these include pfizer's eucrisa, a topical ointment that competes with dupixent in the atopic dermatitis indication; and jak inhibitors, such as abbvie's upadacitinib, pfizer's pf-04965842, and eli lilly's olumiant. 35 table of contents there also is significant actual and potential future competition for praluent. amgen's repatha has already received regulatory approvals in jurisdictions including the u.s., the eu, and japan. amgen may obtain marketing approval for repatha in one or more additional countries before praluent is approved in those countries. amgen may also receive approval for additional indications, such as cardiovascular risk reduction, before praluent. other companies with development programs for injectables against pcsk9 include alnylam pharmaceuticals (in collaboration with the medicines company), which has a clinical program underway with inclisiran, an rnai molecule against pcsk9. in addition, there are therapeutic products targeting pcsk9 operating through other mechanisms of action in development, including oral products and vaccines. oral products that lower ldl-c, if approved, may also be competitive with pcsk9 inhibitors, including praluent. these include bempedoic acid, which is being developed by esperion therapeutics, and gemcabene, which is being developed by gemphire therapeutics. kevzara also faces competition from actual and potential future products. genentech/roche is marketing an antibody against il-6r (actemra) for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis that competes with kevzara. in addition, several other companies, including alder biopharmaceuticals, inc. (in collaboration with vitaeris), ablynx, r-pharm, cjsc, and bird rock bio have antibodies against il-6 or il-6r in clinical development. further, oral, small-molecule jak inhibitors such as pfizer's xeljanz, eli lilly's olumiant, and abbvie's upadacitinib may pose a competitive threat for kevzara. we rely on our antibody collaboration with sanofi for commercializing dupixent, praluent, and kevzara. in accordance with the terms of our antibody collaboration with sanofi, we have elected to co-promote dupixent, kevzara, and praluent with sanofi in the united states. as such, we continue to rely in part on sanofi's sales and marketing organization in the united states. if we and sanofi fail to coordinate our united states sales and marketing efforts effectively, sales of dupixent, praluent, or kevzara (as applicable) may be materially affected. sanofi also maintains other important responsibilities relating to dupixent, praluent, and kevzara in the united states. for example, sanofi records product sales for dupixent, praluent, and kevzara in the united states, serves as the lead regulatory party for certain products and product candidates included in the antibody collaboration ( e.g. , is responsible for regulatory filings and negotiations relating to such products and product candidates) in the united states, and may lead negotiations with payors relating to such products and product candidates. we also rely on sanofi for sales, marketing, and distribution of dupixent, praluent, and kevzara in countries outside the united states. if we or sanofi are unsuccessful in commercializing dupixent, praluent, or kevzara, or if sanofi terminates the antibody collaboration with us, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially impaired. we have limited commercial capabilities outside the united states and would have to develop or outsource these capabilities for dupixent, praluent, and kevzara. therefore, termination of our antibody collaboration would create substantial new and additional risks to the successful commercialization of dupixent, praluent, and kevzara, particularly outside the united states. for additional information regarding our antibody collaboration with sanofi, see "risks related to our reliance on third parties - if any of our collaborations with sanofi is terminated, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition, and our ability to discover, develop, manufacture, and commercialize our pipeline of product candidates in the time expected, or at all, would be materially harmed " below. sales of dupixent, praluent, and kevzara recorded by sanofi could be reduced by imports from countries where these products may be available at lower prices. sales of dupixent, praluent, and kevzara recorded by sanofi in the united states and other countries (which impact our share of any profits or losses from the commercialization of these products under our antibody collaboration with sanofi and, therefore, our results of operations) may be reduced if the applicable product is imported into those countries from lower priced markets, whether legally or illegally (a practice known as parallel trading or reimportation). parallel traders (who may repackage or otherwise alter the original product or sell it through alternative channels such as mail order or the internet) take advantage of the price differentials between markets arising from factors including sales costs, market conditions (such as intermediate trading stages), tax rates, or national regulation of prices. under our antibody collaboration with sanofi, pricing and reimbursement for dupixent, praluent, and kevzara outside the united states is the responsibility of sanofi. prices for dupixent, praluent, and kevzara in jurisdictions outside the united states are based on local market economics and competition and are likely to differ from country to country. in the united states, prices for pharmaceuticals are generally higher than in the bordering nations of canada and mexico and sales of dupixent, praluent, and kevzara in the united states that are recorded by sanofi may be reduced if the applicable product marketed in those bordering nations is imported into the united states. parallel-trading practices also are of particular relevance to the eu, where they have been encouraged by the current regulatory framework. these types of imports may exert pressure on the pricing of dupixent, praluent, and kevzara in a particular market or the sales recorded by sanofi, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations. in addition, there are proposals to legalize the import of pharmaceuticals from outside the united states into the united states. if such proposals were implemented, our future revenues derived from dupixent, praluent, or kevzara sales could be reduced. 36 table of contents risks related to maintaining approval of our marketed products and the development and obtaining approval of our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products if we do not maintain regulatory approval for our marketed products, and obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, we will not be able to market or sell them, which would materially and negatively impact our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. we cannot sell or market products without regulatory approval. if we do not maintain regulatory approval for our marketed products, and obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates or new indications of our marketed products, the value of our company and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition will be materially harmed. if we are unable to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, or if we are materially delayed in doing so, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed. obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval for drug products is costly, time-consuming, and highly uncertain. in the united states, we must obtain and maintain approval from the fda for each drug we intend to sell. obtaining fda approval is typically a lengthy and expensive process, and approval is highly uncertain. we cannot predict with certainty if or when we might submit for regulatory approval any of our product candidates currently under development. any approvals we may obtain may not cover all of the clinical indications for which we are seeking approval. also, an approval might contain significant limitations in the form of narrow indications, warnings, precautions, or contra-indications with respect to conditions of use. the fda has substantial discretion in the approval process (including with respect to setting specific conditions for submission) and may either refuse to accept an application for substantive review or may form the opinion after review of an application that the application is insufficient to allow approval of a product candidate. if the fda does not accept our application for review or approve our application, it may require that we conduct additional clinical, preclinical, or manufacturing validation studies and submit the data before it will reconsider our application. depending on the extent of these or any other studies that might be required, approval of any applications that we submit may be delayed significantly, or we may be required to expend more resources. it is also possible that any such additional studies, if performed and completed, may not be considered sufficient by the fda to make our applications approvable. if any of these outcomes occur, we may be forced to delay or abandon our applications for approval. in certain instances (such as when we use a biomarker-based test to identify and enroll specific patients in a clinical trial), regulatory approval of a companion diagnostic to our therapeutic product candidate may be required as a condition to regulatory approval of the therapeutic product candidate. we may need to rely on third parties to provide companion diagnostics for use with our product candidates. such third parties may be unable or unwilling on terms acceptable to us to provide such companion diagnostics or to obtain timely regulatory approval of such companion diagnostics, which could negatively impact regulatory approval of our product candidates or may result in increased development costs or delays. the fda may also require us to conduct additional clinical trials after granting approval of a product. its ability to do so has been enhanced by the food and drug administration amendments act of 2007, pursuant to which the fda has the explicit authority to require postmarketing studies (also referred to as post-approval or phase 4 studies), labeling changes based on new safety information, and compliance with fda-approved risk evaluation and mitigation strategies. post-approval studies, whether conducted by us or by others and whether mandated by regulatory agencies or voluntary, and other data about our marketed products (or data about products similar to our marketed products that implicate an entire class of products or are perceived to do so) may result in changes in product labeling, restrictions on use, product withdrawal or recall, loss of approval, or lower sales of our products. according to the fda policies under the prescription drug user fee act, the fda system of review times for new drugs includes standard review and priority review. standard review can be accomplished in a ten-month time frame from the time the application is filed by the fda (filing date), which typically occurs approximately 60 days following submission of the application by the applicant. the fda has stated the goal to act on 90% of standard new molecular entity (nme) new drug application (nda) and original bla submissions within 10 months of the filing date. a priority review designation is given to drugs that treat a serious condition and offer major advances in treatment, or provide a treatment where no adequate therapy exists, and may also be afforded to a human drug application based on a priority review voucher. the fda has stated the goal to act on 90% of priority nme nda and original bla submissions within six months of the filing date. however, the fda's review goals are subject to change and the duration of the fda's review depends on a number of factors, including the number and types of other applications that are submitted to the fda around the same time period or are pending. even if any of our applications receives a priority review designation, we may not ultimately be able to obtain approval of our application within a time frame consistent with the fda's stated review goals or at all, and such designation may not actually lead to a faster development or regulatory review or approval process. 37 table of contents the fda enforces good clinical practices (gcps) and other regulations through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, clinical research organizations (cros), principal investigators, and trial sites. if we or any of the third parties conducting our clinical studies are determined to have failed to fully comply with gcps, the study protocol or applicable regulations, the clinical data generated in those studies may be deemed unreliable. this could result in non-approval of our product candidates by the fda, or we or the fda may decide to conduct additional inspections or require additional clinical studies, which would delay our development programs, require us to incur additional costs, and could substantially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. before approving a new drug or biologic product, the fda requires that the facilities at which the product will be manufactured or advanced through the supply chain be in compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cgmp, requirements and regulations governing the manufacture, shipment, and storage of the product. these cgmp requirements and regulations are not prescriptive instructions on how to manufacture products, but rather a series of principles that must be observed during manufacturing; as a result, their implementation may not be clearly delineated and may present a challenging task. manufacturing product candidates in compliance with these regulatory requirements is complex, time-consuming, and expensive. to be successful, our products must be manufactured in compliance with regulatory requirements, and at competitive costs. if we or any of our product collaborators, or third-party manufacturers, product packagers, labelers, or other parties performing steps in the supply chain are unable to maintain regulatory compliance, the fda can impose regulatory sanctions, including, among other things, refusal to approve a pending application for a new drug or biologic product, or revocation of a pre-existing approval. for example, on october 28, 2016, the fda issued a complete response letter relating to the bla for kevzara, which referred to certain deficiencies identified during a routine cgmp inspection of the sanofi facility in le trait, france where kevzara is filled and finished; while the bla for kevzara has since been approved by the fda, this delayed the fda approval of kevzara. for additional information, see "risks related to manufacturing and supply - if we fail to meet the stringent requirements of governmental regulation in the manufacture of drug products or product candidates, we could incur substantial remedial costs, delays in the development or approval of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products and/or in their commercial launch if they obtain regulatory approval, and a reduction in sales. " our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed as a result of noncompliance with the requirements and regulations described in this paragraph. in addition to the fda and other regulatory agency regulations in the united states, we are subject to a variety of foreign regulatory requirements governing human clinical trials, manufacturing, marketing and approval of drugs, and commercial sale and distribution of drugs in foreign countries. the foreign regulatory approval process is similarly likely to be a lengthy and expensive process, the result of which is highly uncertain, and foreign regulatory requirements include all of the risks associated with fda approval as well as country specific regulations. in addition, actions by a regulatory agency in a country or region with respect to a product candidate may have an impact on the approval process for that product candidate in another country or region. foreign regulatory authorities often also have the authority to require post-approval studies, which involve various risks similar to those described above. whether or not we obtain fda approval for a product in the united states, we must obtain approval of the product by the comparable regulatory authorities in foreign countries before we can conduct clinical trials of or market that product or any other product in those countries. preclinical and clinical studies required for our product candidates and new indications of our marketed products are expensive and time-consuming, and their outcome is highly uncertain. if any such studies are delayed or yield unfavorable results, regulatory approval for our product candidates or new indications of our marketed products may be delayed or become unobtainable. as described above, we must conduct extensive testing of our product candidates and new indications of our marketed products before we can obtain regulatory approval to market and sell them. we need to conduct both preclinical animal testing and human clinical trials. conducting such studies is a lengthy, time-consuming, and expensive process. these tests and trials may not achieve favorable results for many reasons, including, among others, failure of the product candidate to demonstrate safety or efficacy, the development of serious or life-threatening adverse events (or side effects) caused by or connected with exposure to the product candidate (or prior or concurrent exposure to other products or product candidates), difficulty in enrolling and maintaining subjects in a clinical trial, lack of sufficient supplies of the product candidate or comparator drug, and the failure of clinical investigators, trial monitors, contractors, consultants, or trial subjects to comply with the trial plan, protocol, or applicable regulations related to glps or gcps. a clinical trial may fail because it did not include and retain a sufficient number of patients to detect the endpoint being measured or reach statistical significance. a clinical trial may also fail because the dose(s) of the investigational drug included in the trial were either too low or too high to determine the optimal effect of the investigational drug in the disease setting. we will need to reevaluate any drug candidate that does not test favorably and either conduct new studies, which are expensive and time consuming, or abandon that drug development program. if preclinical testing yields unfavorable results, product candidates may not advance to clinical trials. the failure of clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of our clinical candidates for the desired indication(s) would preclude the successful development of those candidates for such indication(s), in which event our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed. 38 table of contents furthermore, some of our product candidates (such as cemiplimab) are studied in combination with agents and treatments developed by us or our collaborators. there may be additional risks and unforeseen safety issues resulting from such combined administration, any of which may materially adversely impact clinical development of these product candidates and our ability to obtain regulatory approval. successful development of our current and future product candidates is uncertain. only a small minority of all research and development programs ultimately result in commercially successful drugs. clinical trials may not demonstrate statistically sufficient effectiveness and safety to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for these product candidates in these indications. many companies in the biopharmaceutical industry, including our company, have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, even after promising results have been obtained in earlier trials. in a number of instances, we have terminated the development of product candidates due to a lack of or only modest effectiveness, and clinical trials evaluating our product candidates failed to meet the relevant endpoints. for example, in august 2017, we reported that the phase 3 study evaluating suptavumab, an antibody to rsv, did not meet its primary endpoint of preventing medically-attended rsv infections in infants; as a result, we have discontinued further clinical development of this antibody. moreover, even if we obtain positive results from preclinical testing or clinical trials, we may not achieve the same success in future trials, or the fda and analogous foreign regulatory authorities may deem the results insufficient for an approval. for instance, based on the results of three phase 3 studies, we submitted a supplemental bla filing to the fda seeking approval of arcalyst for the prevention of gout flares in patients initiating uric acid-lowering drug therapy. in may 2012, the arthritis advisory committee of the fda voted to recommend against approval of arcalyst for the prevention of gout flares in patients initiating uric acid-lowering drug therapy and, in july 2012, we received a complete response letter from the fda requesting additional information, including clinical data, as well as additional cmc information related to a proposed new dosage form. we have discontinued development of arcalyst for gout. many of our clinical trials are conducted under the oversight of independent data monitoring committees (idmcs). these independent oversight bodies are made up of external experts who review the progress of ongoing clinical trials, including available safety and efficacy data, and make recommendations concerning a trial's continuation, modification, or termination based on interim, unblinded data. any of our ongoing clinical trials may be discontinued or amended in response to recommendations made by responsible idmcs based on their review of such interim trial results. for example, in september 2009, a phase 3 trial that was evaluating zaltrap as a first-line treatment for metastatic pancreatic cancer in combination with gemcitabine was discontinued at the recommendation of an idmc after a planned analysis of interim efficacy data determined that the trial would not meet its efficacy endpoint. the recommended termination of any of our ongoing late-stage clinical trials by an idmc could negatively impact the future development of our product candidate(s), and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed. we are studying our antibody-based product candidates in a wide variety of indications in clinical trials. many of these trials are exploratory studies designed to evaluate the safety profile of these compounds and to identify what diseases and uses, if any, are best suited for these product candidates. these product candidates may not demonstrate the requisite efficacy and/or safety profile to support continued development for some or all of the indications that are being, or are planned to be, studied, which would diminish our clinical "pipeline" and could negatively affect our future prospects and the value of our company. 39 table of contents serious complications or side effects in connection with the use of our products and in clinical trials for our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products could cause our regulatory approvals to be revoked or limited or lead to delay or discontinuation of development of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, which could severely harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. during the conduct of clinical trials, patients report changes in their health, including illnesses, injuries, and discomforts, to their study doctor. often, it is not possible to determine whether or not the drug candidate being studied caused these conditions. various illnesses, injuries, and discomforts have been reported from time-to-time during clinical trials of our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products. it is possible that as we test our drug candidates or new indications in larger, longer, and more extensive clinical programs, or as use of these drugs becomes more widespread if they receive regulatory approval, illnesses, injuries, and discomforts that were observed in earlier trials, as well as conditions that did not occur or went undetected in previous trials, will be reported by patients. many times, side effects are only detectable after investigational drugs are tested in large-scale, phase 3 clinical trials or, in some cases, after they are made available to patients after approval. if additional clinical experience indicates that any of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products has many side effects or causes serious or life-threatening side effects, the development of the product candidate may be delayed or fail, or, if the product candidate has received regulatory approval, such approval may be revoked, which would severely harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. with respect to eylea, there are many potential safety concerns associated with significant blockade of vegf that may limit our ability to further successfully develop and/or commercialize aflibercept. these serious and potentially life-threatening risks, based on clinical and preclinical experience of vegf inhibitors, include bleeding, intestinal perforation, hypertension, proteinuria, congestive heart failure, heart attack, and stroke. other vegf blockers have reported side effects that became evident only after large-scale trials or after marketing approval when large numbers of patients were treated. there are risks inherent in the intravitreal administration of drugs like aflibercept (such as intraocular inflammation, sterile and culture positive endophthalmitis, corneal decomposition, retinal detachment, and retinal tear), which can cause injury to the eye and other complications. the side effects previously reported for eylea include conjunctival hemorrhage, macular degeneration, eye pain, retinal hemorrhage, and vitreous floaters. these and other complications or side effects could harm further development and/or commercialization of aflibercept. dupilumab is being studied in additional indications, including atopic dermatitis in adolescent and pediatric patients, asthma in adults and adolescents, nasal polyps, and eosinophilic esophagitis. there is no guarantee that marketing approval of dupilumab in any of these indications will be successfully obtained. the side effects previously reported for dupilumab include hypersensitivity reactions, conjunctivitis and keratitis, injection-site reactions, eye and eyelid inflammation, and cold sores. these and other complications or side effects could harm further development and/or commercialization of dupilumab. the potential of praluent to demonstrate cardiovascular benefit is being prospectively assessed in the odyssey outcomes trial. there is no guarantee that praluent will meet the relevant endpoints of this trial. in addition, there are side effects associated with pcsk9 inhibitor antibodies such as praluent that may limit our ability to further successfully develop and/or commercialize praluent, such as new-onset diabetes mellitus, injection-site reactions, hypersensitivity reactions, immunogenicity, demyelination, and changes in neurocognitive function. there also are risks inherent in subcutaneous injections (which are used for administering our antibody-based products and product candidates, including dupixent, praluent, and kevzara), such as injection-site reactions (including redness, itching, swelling, pain, and tenderness) and other side effects. these and other complications or side effects could harm further development and/or commercialization of our antibody-based products and product candidates, including dupixent, praluent, or kevzara. our product candidates in development are recombinant proteins that could cause an immune response, resulting in the creation of harmful or neutralizing antibodies against the therapeutic protein. in addition to the safety, efficacy, manufacturing, and regulatory hurdles faced by our product candidates, the administration of recombinant proteins frequently causes an immune response, resulting in the creation of antibodies against the therapeutic protein. the antibodies can have no effect or can totally neutralize the effectiveness of the protein, or require that higher doses be used to obtain a therapeutic effect. in some cases, the antibody can cross-react with the patient's own proteins, resulting in an "auto-immune" type disease. whether antibodies will be created can often not be predicted from preclinical or clinical experiments, and their detection or appearance is often delayed, so neutralizing antibodies may be detected at a later date, in some cases even after pivotal clinical trials have been completed. 40 table of contents we may be unable to formulate or manufacture our product candidates in a way that is suitable for clinical or commercial use, which would delay or prevent continued development of such candidates and/or receipt of regulatory approval or commercial sale, which could materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. if we are unable to continue to develop suitable product formulations or manufacturing processes to support large-scale clinical testing of our product candidates, including our antibody-based product candidates, we may be unable to supply necessary materials for our clinical trials, which would delay or prevent the development of our product candidates. similarly, if we are unable, directly or through our collaborators or third parties, to supply sufficient quantities of our products or develop formulations of our product candidates suitable for commercial use, we will be unable to obtain regulatory approval for those product candidates. many of our products are intended to be used and, if approved, our product candidates may be used in combination with drug-delivery devices, which may result in additional regulatory and other risks. many of our products (including dupixent, praluent, and kevzara) are used and, if approved, some of our product candidates may be used in combination with a drug-delivery device, including a pre-filled syringe, patch pump, auto-injector, or other delivery system. the success of our product candidates may depend to a significant extent on the performance of such devices, some of which may be novel or comprised of complex components. given the increased complexity of the review process when approval of the product and device is sought under a single marketing application and the additional risks resulting from a product candidate's designation as a combination product discussed below, our product candidates used with such drug-delivery devices may be substantially delayed in receiving regulatory approval or may not be approved at all. the fda review process and criteria for such applications is not a well-established area, which could also lead to delays in the approval process. in addition, some of these drug-delivery devices may be provided by single-source, third-party providers or our collaborators. in any such case, we may be dependent on the sustained cooperation of those third-party providers or collaborators to supply the devices; to conduct the studies required for approval or clearance by the applicable regulatory agencies; and to continue to meet the applicable regulatory and other requirements to maintain approval or clearance once it has been received. failure to successfully develop or supply the devices, delays in or failure of the studies conducted by us, our collaborators, or third-party providers, or failure of our company, our collaborators, or the third-party providers to obtain or maintain regulatory approval or clearance of the devices could result in increased development costs, delays in or failure to obtain regulatory approval, and associated delays in a product candidate reaching the market. loss of regulatory approval or clearance of a device that is used with our product may also result in the removal of our product from the market. further, failure to successfully develop or supply these devices, or to gain or maintain their approval, could adversely affect sales of the related products. in the united states, each component of a combination product is subject to the requirements established by the fda for that type of component, whether a drug, biologic, or device. the determination whether a product is a combination product or two separately regulated products is made by the fda on a case-by-case basis. although a single marketing application is generally sufficient for the approval, clearance, or licensure of a combination product, the fda may determine that separate marketing applications are necessary. in addition, submitting separate marketing applications may be necessary to receive some benefit that accrues only from approval under a particular type of application. this could significantly increase the resources and time required to bring a particular combination product to market. 41 table of contents risks related to intellectual property and market exclusivity if we cannot protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets or our patents are insufficient to protect our proprietary rights, our business and competitive position will be harmed. our business requires using sensitive and proprietary technology and other information that we protect as trade secrets. we seek to prevent improper disclosure of these trade secrets through confidentiality agreements. if our trade secrets are improperly disclosed, by our current or former employees, our collaborators, or otherwise, it would help our competitors and adversely affect our business. we will be able to protect our proprietary rights only to the extent that our proprietary technologies and other information are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. the patent position of biotechnology companies, including our company, involves complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, enforceability cannot be predicted with certainty. our patents may be challenged, invalidated, held to be unenforceable, or circumvented. patent applications filed outside the united states may be challenged by other parties, for example, by filing third-party observations that argue against patentability or an opposition. such opposition proceedings are increasingly common in the eu and are costly to defend. for example, our european patent no. 1,360,287 was, and our european patent no. 2,264,163 is, the subject of opposition proceedings in the epo, as described in part i, item 3. "legal proceedings" of our annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2016 and in note 17 to our consolidated financial statements included in this report, respectively. we have pending patent applications in the uspto, the epo, and the patent offices of other foreign jurisdictions, and it is likely that we will need to defend patents from challenges by others from time to time in the future. certain of our u.s. patents may also be challenged by parties who file a request for post-grant review or inter partes reexamination under the america invents act of 2011 or ex parte reexamination. post-grant proceedings are increasingly common in the united states and are costly to defend. our patent rights may not provide us with a proprietary position or competitive advantages against competitors. furthermore, even if the outcome is favorable to us, the enforcement of our intellectual property rights can be extremely expensive and time consuming. we may be restricted in our development, manufacturing, and/or commercialization activities by patents or other proprietary rights of others, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed such patents or rights. our commercial success depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of others. other parties may allege that they own blocking patents to our products in clinical development or even to products that have received regulatory approval and are being or have been commercialized, either because they claim to hold proprietary rights to the composition of a product or the way it is manufactured or the way it is used. moreover, other parties may allege that they have blocking patents to antibody-based products made using our velocimmune technology, or any other of our technologies, either because of the way the antibodies are discovered or produced or because of a proprietary composition covering an antibody or the antibody's target. we have been in the past, are currently, and may in the future be involved in patent litigation and other proceedings involving patents and other intellectual property. for example, we are currently party to patent infringement proceedings initiated by amgen against us and sanofi relating to praluent and patent infringement proceedings relating to dupixent, as described in note 17 to our consolidated financial statements. in addition, we are currently party to patent infringement proceedings initiated by us relating to our european patent no. 1,360,287, our european patent no. 2,264,163, and our u.s. patent no. 8,502,018, all of which concern genetically altered mice capable of producing chimeric antibodies that are part human and part mouse, as described in note 17 to our consolidated financial statements. we are aware of patents and pending patent applications owned by others that respectively claim antibodies to il-4r and methods of treating conditions including atopic dermatitis and asthma with such antibodies; antibodies to il-6r and methods of treating conditions including rheumatoid arthritis with such antibodies; antibodies to pcsk9 and methods of treating hypercholesterolemia with such antibodies; and antibodies to pd-1 and methods of treating cancer with such antibodies. in addition to dupixent (dupilumab), praluent (alirocumab), and kevzara (sarilumab), our late-stage antibody-based pipeline includes fasinumab, an antibody to ngf; cemiplimab, an antibody to pd-1, intended for the treatment of certain cancer indications including advanced cscc; and evinacumab, an antibody to angptl3. with respect to dupixent, we are aware of certain patents owned by immunex corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of amgen. these patents include u.s. patent no. 8,679,487 (currently subject to the patent infringement proceedings described in note 17 to our consolidated financial statements) and european patent no. 2,292,665 (the '665 patent) and are generally directed to antibodies that bind to il-4r. on september 30, 2016, sanofi initiated a revocation proceeding to invalidate the u.k. counterpart of the '665 patent in the united kingdom. at the joint request of the parties to the revocation proceeding, the u.k. patents court ordered on january 30, 2017 that the revocation action be stayed pending the final determination of the currently pending epo opposition proceedings initiated by us and sanofi in relation to the '665 patent. the oral hearing before the epo on the oppositions occurred on november 20, 2017, at which the claims of the '665 patent were found invalid and the patent was revoked. a final written decision of revocation of the '665 patent was issued by the epo on january 4, 2018 (subject to appeal). on september 20, 2017 and september 21, 2017, respectively, we and sanofi initiated opposition proceedings in the epo against immunex's european patent no. 2,990,420 (the '420 patent), a divisional patent of the 42 table of contents '665 patent ( i.e. , a patent that shares the same priority date, disclosure, and patent term of the parent '665 patent but contains claims to a different invention). the original patent term of the immunex patents is set to expire in 2021. although we do not believe that any of our late-stage antibody-based product candidates infringes any valid claim in these patents or patent applications, these other parties could initiate lawsuits for patent infringement and assert that their patents are valid and cover our late-stage antibody-based product candidates, similar to the patent infringement proceedings referred to above. further, we are aware of a number of patent applications of others that, if granted with claims as currently drafted, may cover our current or planned activities. it could be determined that our products and/or actions in manufacturing or selling our products or product candidates infringe such patents. patent holders could assert claims against us for damages and seek to prevent us from manufacturing, selling, or developing our products or product candidates, and a court may find that we are infringing validly issued patents of others. in the event that the manufacture, use, or sale of any of our products or product candidates infringes on the patents or violates other proprietary rights of others, we may be prevented from pursuing product development, manufacturing, and commercialization of those drugs and may be required to pay costly damages. in addition, in the event that we assert our patent rights against other parties that we believe are infringing our patent rights, such parties may challenge the validity of our patents and we may become the target of litigation, which may result in an outcome that is unfavorable to us. any of these adverse developments may materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. in any event, legal disputes are likely to be costly and time consuming to defend. we seek to obtain licenses to patents when, in our judgment, such licenses are needed or advisable. if any licenses are required, we may not be able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. the failure to obtain any such license could prevent us from developing or commercializing any one or more of our products or product candidates, which could severely harm our business. loss or limitation of patent rights, and new regulatory pathways for biosimilar competition, could reduce the duration of market exclusivity for our products. in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, the majority of an innovative product's commercial value is usually realized during the period in which it has market exclusivity. in the united states and some other countries, when market exclusivity expires and generic versions of a product are approved and marketed, there usually are very substantial and rapid declines in the product's sales. if our late-stage product candidates or other clinical candidates are approved for marketing in the united states or elsewhere, market exclusivity for those products will generally be based upon patent rights and/or certain regulatory forms of exclusivity. as described above under " if we cannot protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets or our patents are insufficient to protect our proprietary rights, our business and competitive position will be harmed, " the scope and enforceability of our patent rights may vary from country to country. the failure to obtain patent and other intellectual property rights, or limitations on the use, or the loss, of such rights could materially harm us. absent patent protection or regulatory exclusivity for our products, it is possible, both in the united states and elsewhere, that generic, biosimilar, and/or interchangeable versions of those products may be approved and marketed, which would likely result in substantial and rapid reductions in revenues from sales of those products. under the federal patient protection and affordable care act (ppaca), enacted in 2010, there is an abbreviated path in the united states for regulatory approval of products that are demonstrated to be "biosimilar" or "interchangeable" with an fda-approved biological product. the ppaca provides a regulatory mechanism that allows for fda approval of biologic drugs that are similar to (but not generic copies of) innovative drugs on the basis of less extensive data than is required by a full bla. under this regulation, an application for approval of a biosimilar may be filed four years after approval of the innovator product. however, qualified innovative biological products will receive 12 years of regulatory exclusivity, meaning that the fda may not approve a biosimilar version until 12 years after the innovative biological product was first approved by the fda. however, the term of regulatory exclusivity may not remain at 12 years in the united states and could be shortened. a number of jurisdictions outside of the united states have also established abbreviated pathways for regulatory approval of biological products that are biosimilar to earlier versions of biological products. for example, the eu has had an established regulatory pathway for biosimilars since 2005. the increased likelihood of biosimilar competition has increased the risk of loss of innovators' market exclusivity. due to this risk, and uncertainties regarding patent protection, if our late-stage product candidates or other clinical candidates are approved for marketing, it is not possible to predict the length of market exclusivity for any particular product with certainty based solely on the expiration of the relevant patent(s) or the current forms of regulatory exclusivity. it is also not possible to predict changes in united states regulatory law that might reduce biological product regulatory exclusivity. the loss of market exclusivity for a product would likely materially and negatively affect revenues from product sales of that product and thus our financial results and condition. 43 table of contents risks related to manufacturing and supply we rely on limited internal and contracted manufacturing and supply chain capacity, which could result in our being unable to continue to successfully commercialize eylea, to successfully commercialize dupixent, praluent, and kevzara and, if approved, our product candidates or other indications for our marketed products, and to advance our clinical pipeline. our manufacturing facilities would be inadequate to produce the active pharmaceutical ingredients of (a) our current marketed products, including eylea, dupixent, praluent, and kevzara, and (b) our antibody-based product candidates in sufficient clinical quantities if our clinical pipeline advances as planned. in addition to expanding our internal capacity, we intend to rely on our collaborators, as well as contract manufacturers, to produce commercial quantities of drug material needed for commercialization of our products to the extent such quantities are not manufactured at our own facility. as we increase our production in anticipation of potential regulatory approval for our late-stage antibody-based product candidates, our current manufacturing capacity will likely not be sufficient, and we may depend on our collaborators or contract manufacturers, to produce adequate quantities of drug material for both commercial and clinical purposes. we rely entirely on other parties and our collaborators for filling and finishing services. generally, in order for other parties to perform any step in the manufacturing and supply chain, we must transfer technology to the other party, which can be time consuming and may not be successfully accomplished without considerable cost and expense, or at all. we will have to depend on these other parties to perform effectively on a timely basis and to comply with regulatory requirements. if for any reason they are unable to do so, and as a result we are unable to directly or through other parties manufacture and supply sufficient commercial and clinical quantities of our products on acceptable terms, or if we should encounter delays or other difficulties in our relationships with our collaborators, contract manufacturers, or other parties involved in our supply chain which adversely affect the timely manufacture and supply of our products or product candidates, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed. expanding our manufacturing capacity will be costly and we may be unsuccessful in doing so in a timely manner, which could delay or prevent the launch and successful commercialization of our marketed products and late-stage product candidates or other indications for our marketed products if they are approved for marketing and could jeopardize our current and future clinical development programs. we own an approximately 445,000-square-foot facility in limerick, ireland, which we purchased and subsequently renovated to expand our manufacturing capacity and support our global supply chain. in the future, we may lease, operate, purchase, or construct additional facilities to conduct expanded manufacturing activities. expanding our manufacturing capacity to supply commercial quantities of the active pharmaceutical ingredients for our marketed products and our late-stage product candidates if they are approved for marketing, and to supply clinical drug material to support the continued growth of our clinical programs, will require substantial additional expenditures and various regulatory approvals and permits. in addition, while the limerick, ireland facility has received certain manufacturing approvals by regulatory agencies, including the fda, the facility remains subject to securing certain other governmental permits, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain the remaining required permits in the contemplated timeframe, or at all. further, we will need to hire and train significant numbers of employees and managerial personnel to staff our expanding manufacturing and supply chain operations. start-up costs can be large, and scale-up entails significant risks related to process development and manufacturing yields. in addition, we may face difficulties or delays in developing or acquiring the necessary production equipment and technology to manufacture sufficient quantities of our product candidates at reasonable costs and in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. the fda and analogous foreign regulatory authorities must determine that our existing and any expanded manufacturing facilities comply, or continue to comply, with cgmp requirements for both clinical and commercial production and license them, or continue to license them, accordingly, and such facilities must also comply with applicable environmental, safety, and other governmental permitting requirements. we may not successfully expand or establish sufficient manufacturing capabilities or manufacture our products economically or in compliance with cgmps and other regulatory requirements, and we and our collaborators may not be able to build or procure additional capacity in the required timeframe to meet commercial demand for our late-stage product candidates if they receive regulatory approval, and to continue to meet the requirements of our clinical programs. this would interfere with our efforts to successfully commercialize our marketed products, including eylea, dupixent, praluent, and kevzara, and could also delay or require us to discontinue one or more of our clinical development programs. as a result, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition could be materially harmed. 44 table of contents our ability to manufacture products may be impaired if any of our manufacturing activities, or the activities of third parties involved in our manufacture and supply chain, are found to infringe patents of others. our ability to continue to manufacture products in our rensselaer, new york and limerick, ireland facilities and at additional facilities (if any) in the future, or to utilize third parties to produce our products, to supply raw materials or other products, or to perform fill/finish services or other steps in our manufacture and supply chain, depends on our and their ability to operate without infringing the patents or other intellectual property rights of others. other parties may allege that our manufacturing activities, or the activities of third parties involved in our manufacture and supply chain (which may be located in jurisdictions outside the united states), infringe patents or other intellectual property rights. a judicial or regulatory decision in favor of one or more parties making such allegations could directly or indirectly preclude the manufacture of our products to which those intellectual property rights apply on a temporary or permanent basis, which could materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. if sales of eylea, dupixent, praluent, or kevzara do not meet the levels currently expected, or if the launch of any of our product candidates is delayed or unsuccessful, we may face costs related to excess inventory or unused capacity at our manufacturing facilities and at the facilities of third parties or our collaborators. we have large-scale manufacturing operations in rensselaer, new york and limerick, ireland. we use our manufacturing facilities primarily to produce bulk product for commercial supply of our marketed products and clinical and preclinical candidates for ourselves and our collaborations. we also plan to use such facilities to produce bulk product for commercial supply of new indications of our marketed products and new product candidates if they are approved for marketing. if our clinical candidates are discontinued or their clinical development is delayed, if the launch of new indications for our marketed products or new product candidates is delayed or does not occur, or if such products are launched and the launch is unsuccessful or the product is subsequently recalled or marketing approval is rescinded, we may have to absorb one hundred percent of related overhead costs and inefficiencies, as well as similar costs of third-party contract manufacturers performing services for us. in addition, if we or our collaborators experience excess inventory, it may be necessary to write down or even write off such excess inventory, which could adversely affect our operating results. third-party service or supply failures, or other failures, business interruptions, or other disasters affecting our manufacturing facilities in rensselaer, new york and limerick, ireland or the facilities of any other party participating in the supply chain, would adversely affect our ability to supply our products. we currently manufacture all of our bulk drug materials at our manufacturing facilities in rensselaer, new york and limerick, ireland. we would be unable to manufacture these materials if our rensselaer and limerick facilities were to cease production due to regulatory requirements or actions, business interruptions, labor shortages or disputes, contaminations, fire, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, or other problems. many of our products and product candidates are very difficult to manufacture. as our products and product candidates are biologics, they require processing steps that are more difficult than those required for most chemical pharmaceuticals. accordingly, multiple steps are needed to control the manufacturing processes. problems with these manufacturing processes, even minor deviations from the normal process or from the materials used in the manufacturing process (which may not be detectable by us in a timely manner), could lead to product defects or manufacturing failures, resulting in lot failures, product recalls, product liability claims, and insufficient inventory. also, the complexity of our manufacturing process may make it difficult, time-consuming, and expensive to transfer our technology to our collaborators or contract manufacturers. also, certain raw materials or other products necessary for the manufacture and formulation of our marketed products and product candidates, some of which are difficult to source, are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. in addition, we rely on certain third parties or our collaborators to perform filling, finishing, distribution, laboratory testing, and other services related to the manufacture of our marketed products and product candidates, and to supply various raw materials and other products. we would be unable to obtain these raw materials, other products, or services for an indeterminate period of time if any of these third parties were to cease or interrupt production or otherwise fail to supply these materials, products, or services to us for any reason, including due to regulatory requirements or actions (including recalls), adverse financial developments at or affecting the supplier, failure by the supplier to comply with cgmps, contaminations, business interruptions, or labor shortages or disputes. in any such circumstances, we may not be able to engage a backup or alternative supplier or service provider in a timely manner or at all. this, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our ability to manufacture or supply marketed products and product candidates, which could materially and adversely affect our business and future prospects. certain of the raw materials required in the manufacture and the formulation of our product candidates may be derived from biological sources, including mammalian tissues, bovine serum, and human serum albumin. there are certain european regulatory restrictions on using these biological source materials. if we are required to substitute for these sources to comply with european regulatory requirements, our clinical development or commercial activities may be delayed or interrupted. 45 table of contents if we fail to meet the stringent requirements of governmental regulation in the manufacture of drug products or product candidates, we could incur substantial remedial costs, delays in the development or approval of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products and/or in their commercial launch if they obtain regulatory approval, and a reduction in sales. we and our third-party providers are required to maintain compliance with cgmps, and are subject to inspections by the fda or comparable agencies in other jurisdictions to confirm such compliance. changes of suppliers or modifications of methods of manufacturing may require amending our application(s) to the fda or such comparable foreign agencies and acceptance of the change by the fda or such comparable foreign agencies prior to release of product(s). because we produce multiple products and product candidates at our facility in rensselaer, new york, including eylea, dupixent, praluent, kevzara, zaltrap, and arcalyst, there are increased risks associated with cgmp compliance. our inability, or the inability of our third-party fill/finish or other service providers, to demonstrate ongoing cgmp compliance could require us to engage in lengthy and expensive remediation efforts, withdraw or recall product, halt or interrupt clinical trials, and/or interrupt commercial supply of any marketed products, and could also delay or prevent our obtaining regulatory approval for our late-stage product candidates or new indications for our marketed products. for example, on october 28, 2016, the fda issued a complete response letter relating to the bla for kevzara, which referred to certain deficiencies identified during a routine cgmp inspection of the sanofi fill-and-finish facility in le trait, france. while the bla for kevzara has since been approved by the fda, this delayed the fda approval of kevzara. any delay, interruption, or other issue that arises in the manufacture, fill/finish, packaging, or storage of any drug product or product candidate as a result of a failure of our facilities or the facilities or operations of third parties to pass any regulatory agency inspection or maintain cgmp compliance could significantly impair our ability to develop, obtain approval for, and successfully commercialize our products, which would substantially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. any finding of non-compliance could also increase our costs, cause us to delay the development of our product candidates, result in delay in our obtaining, or our not obtaining, regulatory approval of product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, and cause us to lose revenue from any marketed products, which could be seriously detrimental to our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. risks related to commercialization of products we may be unsuccessful in continuing the commercialization of our marketed products or in commercializing our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if approved, which would materially and adversely affect our business, profitability, and future prospects. even if clinical trials demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of any of our product candidates for a specific disease and the necessary regulatory approvals are obtained, the commercial success of any of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products will depend upon, among other things, their acceptance by patients, the medical community, and third-party payers and on our and our collaborators' ability to successfully manufacture, market and distribute those products in substantial commercial quantities or to establish and manage the required infrastructure to do so, including large-scale information technology systems and a large-scale distribution network. establishing and maintaining sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities are expensive and time-consuming. even if we obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates or new indications, if they are not successfully commercialized, we will not be able to recover the significant investment we have made in developing such products and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be severely harmed. the commercial success of our products may also be adversely affected by guidelines or recommendations to healthcare providers, administrators, payers, and patient communities that result in decreased use of our products. such guidelines or recommendations may be published not only by governmental agencies, but also professional societies, practice management groups, private foundations, and other interested parties. our product candidates are delivered either by intravenous infusion or by intravitreal or subcutaneous injections, which are generally less well received by patients than tablet or capsule delivery and this could adversely affect the commercial success of those products if they receive marketing approval. for a description of additional risks relating specifically to the commercialization of eylea, dupixent, praluent, and kevzara, see above under "risks related to commercialization of eylea" and "risks related to commercialization of our antibody-based products (dupixent, praluent, and kevzara)" (as applicable). 46 table of contents our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if any are approved for marketing, may face significant competition. there is substantial competition in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries from biotechnology, pharmaceutical, and chemical companies. many of our competitors have substantially greater research, preclinical and clinical product development and manufacturing capabilities, as well as financial, marketing, and human resources, than we do. our smaller competitors may also enhance their competitive position if they acquire or discover patentable inventions, form collaborative arrangements, or merge with large pharmaceutical companies. even if we achieve commercialization of our product candidates, our competitors have achieved, and may continue to achieve, product commercialization before our products are approved for marketing and sale. our earlier-stage clinical candidates in development are all fully human antibodies, which were generated using our velocimmune technology. our antibody generation technologies and earlier-stage clinical candidates face competition from many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies using various technologies. we are aware of several pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies actively engaged in the research and development of antibody-based products against targets that are also the targets of our early- and late-stage product candidates. for example, pfizer (in collaboration with eli lilly) is developing an antibody-based product candidate against ngf. for cemiplimab, there are several competitors that are marketing or developing antibodies against pd-1 and/or pdl-1, including bristol-myers squibb's opdivo, merck's keytruda, roche's tecentriq, astrazeneca's imfinzi, pfizer's bavencio, novartis's pdr001, and celgene/beigene's bgb-a317. competitors to evinacumab include ionis pharmaceuticals/akcea therapeutics' akcea-angptl3-lrx, a ligand conjugated antisense drug against angptl3. we are also aware of several companies developing or marketing small molecules that may compete with our antibody-based product candidates in various indications, if such product candidates obtain regulatory approval in those indications. if any of these or other competitors announces a successful clinical study involving a product that may be competitive with one of our product candidates or the grant of marketing approval by a regulatory agency for a competitive product, such developments may have an adverse effect on our business or future prospects. in addition, the first product to reach the market in a therapeutic area is often at a significant competitive advantage relative to later entrants to the market. accordingly, the relative speed with which we, or our collaborators, can develop our products candidates, complete the clinical trials and approval processes, and, if such product candidates are approved for marketing and sale, supply commercial quantities to the market is expected to continue to be an important competitive factor. due to the uncertainties associated with developing biopharmaceutical products, we may not be the first to obtain marketing approval for a product against any particular target, which may have a material adverse effect on our business or future prospects. the successful commercialization of our marketed products, as well as our late-stage product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if approved, will depend on obtaining and maintaining coverage and reimbursement for use of these products from third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid in the united states, and these payers may not cover or adequately reimburse for use of our products or may do so at levels that make our products uncompetitive and/or unprofitable, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. our future revenues and profitability will be adversely affected in a material manner if united states and foreign governmental payers, private third-party insurers and payers (such as health maintenance organizations and pharmacy benefit management companies), and other third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid, do not adequately defray or reimburse the cost of our products to the patients. if these entities do not provide coverage and reimbursement with respect to our products or provide an insufficient level of coverage and reimbursement, our products may be too costly for many patients to afford them, and physicians may not prescribe them. many third-party payers cover only selected drugs, or may prefer selected drugs, making drugs that are not covered or preferred by such payers more expensive for patients. third-party payers may also require prior authorization for reimbursement, or require failure on another type of treatment before covering a particular drug, particularly with respect to higher-priced drugs. as our currently marketed products and product candidates are biologics, bringing them to market may cost more than bringing traditional, small-molecule drugs to market due to the complexity associated with the research, development, production, supply and regulatory review of such products. given cost sensitivities in many health care systems, our currently marketed products and product candidates are likely to be subject to continued pricing pressures, which may have an adverse impact on our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. in addition, in order for private insurance and governmental payers (such as medicare and medicaid in the united states) to reimburse the cost of our products, we must, among other things, maintain our fda registration and our national drug code, maintain formulary approval by pharmacy benefits managers, and maintain recognition by insurance companies and the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services (cms). there is no certainty that we will be able to obtain or maintain the applicable requirements for reimbursement (including relevant formulary coverage) of our current and future products, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. 47 table of contents government and other third-party payers (including pharmacy benefit management companies) are challenging the prices charged for healthcare products and increasingly limiting, and attempting to limit, both coverage and level of reimbursement for prescription drugs, such as by requiring outcomes-based or other pay-for-performance pricing arrangements. they are also imposing restrictions on eligible patient populations and the reimbursement process (including by means of required prior authorizations and utilization management criteria). in march 2010, the ppaca and a related reconciliation bill were enacted in the united states. this legislation imposes cost-containment and other measures that are likely to adversely affect the amount of reimbursement for our current and future products. the full effects of this legislation depend on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including new regulations and guidance issued by cms and other federal and state agencies. some states are also considering legislation that would control the prices and reimbursement of prescription drugs, and state medicaid programs are increasingly requesting manufacturers to pay supplemental rebates and requiring prior authorization by the state program for use of any prescription drug for which supplemental rebates are not being paid. it is likely that federal and state legislatures and health agencies will continue to focus on additional health care reform measures in the future that will impose additional constraints on prices and reimbursements for our products. there is a risk that third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid in the united states, may not cover and/or reimburse our current and future products at levels required for us to successfully commercialize these products. any limitation imposed by third-party payers on the use of our products if they are approved for marketing, or any action or decision by cms or analogous foreign agencies or authorities which for any reason denies coverage or reimbursement for our products or provides coverage or reimbursement at levels that harm our products' competitiveness or leads to lower prices for those products, will have a material negative effect on our ability to sustain profitability. in certain foreign countries, pricing, coverage, and level of reimbursement of prescription drugs are subject to governmental control, and we and our collaborators may be unable to obtain coverage, pricing, and/or reimbursement on terms that are favorable to us or necessary for us or our collaborators to successfully commercialize our products in those countries. in some foreign countries, the proposed pricing for a drug must be approved before it may be lawfully marketed. the requirements governing drug pricing and reimbursement vary widely from country to country, and may take into account the clinical effectiveness, cost, and service impact of existing, new, and emerging drugs and treatments. for example, the eu provides options for its member states to restrict the range of medicinal products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices of medicinal products for human use. a member state may approve a specific price for the medicinal product or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the medicinal product on the market. our results of operations may suffer if we or our collaborators are unable to market our products in foreign countries or if coverage and reimbursement for our products in foreign countries is limited or delayed. we are dependent upon a small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of or significant reduction in sales to these customers would adversely affect our results of operations. we sell eylea in the united states to several distributors and specialty pharmacies. under this distribution model, the distributors and specialty pharmacies generally take physical delivery of product and generally sell the product directly to healthcare providers. for the year ended december 31, 2017, product sales to three customers accounted on a combined basis for 99% of our total gross product revenue. we expect this significant customer concentration to continue for the foreseeable future. our ability to generate and grow sales of eylea will depend, in part, on the extent to which our distributors and specialty pharmacies are able to provide adequate distribution of eylea to healthcare providers. although we believe we can find additional distributors, if necessary, our revenue during any period of disruption could suffer and we might incur additional costs. in addition, these customers are responsible for a significant portion of our net trade accounts receivable balances. the loss of any large customer, a significant reduction in sales we make to them, any cancellation of orders they have made with us, or any failure to pay for the products we have shipped to them could adversely affect our results of operations. if we need to establish commercial capabilities outside the united states and are unable to do so, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be adversely affected. we have limited commercial capabilities outside the united states and do not currently have an organization for the sales, marketing, and distribution of marketed products outside the united states. there may be circumstances in which we need to establish commercial capabilities outside the united states, including because we decide to exercise our option to co-promote a product outside the united states or commercialize a particular product independently; we are unable to find an appropriate collaborator; or our existing collaborator decides not to opt in, decides to opt out, or breaches its obligations to us with respect to a particular product. in order to commercialize any products outside the united states, we must build our sales, marketing, distribution, managerial, and other non-technical capabilities in the relevant markets or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services, which would likely be expensive and time consuming and could delay product launch in one or more markets outside the united states. we cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully develop commercial capabilities outside the united states within 48 table of contents an acceptable time frame or at all. these and other difficulties relating to commercializing our products outside the united states may severely harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. for additional risks relating to commercialization of eylea, dupixent, praluent, and kevzara outside the united states, see also "risks related to commercialization of eylea - we rely on our collaboration with bayer for commercializing eylea " and "risks related to commercialization of our antibody-based products (dupixent, praluent, and kevzara) - we rely on our antibody collaboration with sanofi for commercializing dupixent, praluent, and kevzara " (as applicable). regulatory and litigation risks if the testing or use of our products harms people, or is perceived to harm them even when such harm is unrelated to our products, we could be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims. the testing, manufacturing, marketing, and sale of drugs for use in people expose us to product liability risk. any informed consent or waivers obtained from people who enroll in our clinical trials may not protect us from liability or the cost of litigation. we may also be subject to claims by patients who use our approved products, or our product candidates if those product candidates receive regulatory approval and become commercially available, that they have been injured by a side effect associated with the drug. even in a circumstance in which we do not believe that an adverse event is related to our products or product candidates, the related investigation may be time consuming or inconclusive and may have a negative impact on our reputation or business. we may face product liability claims and be found responsible even if injury arises from the acts or omissions of third parties who provide fill/finish or other services. to the extent we maintain product liability insurance in relevant periods, such insurance may not cover all potential liabilities or may not completely cover any liability arising from any such litigation. moreover, in the future we may not have access to liability insurance or be able to maintain our insurance on acceptable terms. if we market and sell approved products in a way that violates federal or state healthcare laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. the fda regulates the marketing and promotion of our products, which must comply with the food, drug, and cosmetic act and applicable fda implementing standards. the fda's review of promotional activities includes healthcare provider-directed and direct-to-consumer advertising as well as sales representatives' communications. the fda may take enforcement action for promoting unapproved uses of a product or other violations of its advertising laws and regulations. in addition to fda and related regulatory requirements, we are subject to health care "fraud and abuse" laws, such as the federal false claims act, the anti-kickback provisions of the federal social security act, and other state and federal laws and regulations. federal and state anti-kickback laws prohibit, among other things, payments or other remuneration to induce or reward someone to purchase, prescribe, endorse, or recommend a product that is reimbursed under federal or state healthcare programs. if we provide payments or other remuneration to a healthcare professional to induce the prescribing of our products, we could face liability under state and federal anti-kickback laws. federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, such as allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; reporting to pricing services inflated average wholesale prices that were then used by federal programs to set reimbursement rates; engaging in promotion for uses that the fda has not approved, known as off-label uses, that caused claims to be submitted to medicaid for non-covered off-label uses; and submitting inflated best price information to the medicaid rebate program. the majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payer. sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer's products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines, and imprisonment. even if it is determined that we have not violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which would harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the safe harbors, it is possible that some of our business activities could be challenged under one or more of such laws. 49 table of contents as part of the ppaca, the federal government requires that pharmaceutical manufacturers record any "transfers of value" made to u.s. prescribers and certain other healthcare providers and teaching hospitals. information provided by companies is aggregated and posted annually on an "open payments" website, which is managed by cms, the agency responsible for implementing these disclosure requirements. we will need to continue to dedicate significant resources to comply with these requirements and to be prepared to comply with additional reporting obligations outside of the united states that may apply in the future. the ppaca also includes various provisions designed to strengthen fraud-and-abuse enforcement, such as increased funding for enforcement efforts and the lowering of the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback statute and criminal health care fraud statute such that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. in addition, several states have legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, file periodic reports with the state or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, and other activities. many of these requirements and standards are new or uncertain, and the penalties for failure to comply with these requirements may be unclear. if we are found not to be in full compliance with these laws, we could face enforcement actions, fines, and other penalties, and could receive adverse publicity, which would harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. additionally, access to such data by fraud-and-abuse investigators and industry critics may draw scrutiny to our collaborations with reported entities. risks from the improper conduct of employees, agents, contractors, or collaborators could adversely affect our reputation and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. we cannot ensure that our compliance controls, policies, and procedures will in every instance protect us from acts committed by our employees, agents, contractors, or collaborators that would violate the laws or regulations of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including, without limitation, healthcare, employment, foreign corrupt practices, trade restrictions and sanctions, environmental, competition, and patient privacy and other privacy laws and regulations. such improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations, and monetary and injunctive penalties, and could adversely impact our ability to conduct business, operating results, and reputation. in particular, our business activities outside of the united states are subject to the foreign corrupt practices act, or fcpa, and similar anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws, regulations or rules of other countries in which we operate, including the u.k. bribery act. the fcpa generally prohibits offering, promising, giving, or authorizing others to give anything of value, either directly or indirectly, to a non-u.s. government official in order to influence official action, or otherwise obtain or retain business. the fcpa also requires public companies to make and keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect the transactions of the corporation and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls. our business is heavily regulated and therefore involves significant interaction with public officials, including officials of non-u.s. governments. additionally, in many other countries, the health care providers who prescribe pharmaceuticals are employed by their government, and the purchasers of pharmaceuticals are government entities; therefore, our dealings with these prescribers and purchasers are subject to regulation under the fcpa. recently the securities and exchange commission, or sec, and department of justice have increased their fcpa enforcement activities with respect to pharmaceutical companies. there is no certainty that all of our employees, agents, contractors, or collaborators, or those of our affiliates, will comply with all applicable laws and regulations, particularly given the high level of complexity of these laws. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, requirements to obtain export licenses, cessation of business activities in sanctioned countries, implementation of compliance programs, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business. any such violations could include prohibitions on our ability to offer our products in one or more countries and could materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. our operations may involve hazardous materials and are subject to environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations. compliance with these laws and regulations is costly, and we may incur substantial liability arising from our activities involving the use of hazardous materials. as a biopharmaceutical company with significant research and development and manufacturing operations, we are subject to extensive environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations, including those governing the use of hazardous materials. our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of chemicals, infectious agents (such as viruses, bacteria, and fungi), radioactive compounds, and other hazardous materials. the cost of compliance with environmental, health, and safety regulations is substantial. if an accident involving these materials or an environmental discharge were to occur, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, or face regulatory actions, which could exceed our resources or insurance coverage. 50 table of contents our business is subject to increasingly complex corporate governance, public disclosure, and accounting requirements and regulations that could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. we are subject to changing rules and regulations of various federal and state governmental authorities as well as the stock exchange on which our common stock is listed. these entities, including the sec and the nasdaq stock market llc, have issued a significant number of new and increasingly complex requirements and regulations over the course of the last several years and continue to develop additional requirements and regulations in response to laws enacted by congress, including the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and, most recently, the dodd-frank wall street reform and protection act, or the dodd-frank act. there are significant corporate governance and executive compensation-related provisions in the dodd-frank act that expressly authorized or required the sec to adopt additional rules in these areas, a number of which have yet to be fully implemented. our efforts to comply with these requirements and regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, an increase in expenses and a diversion of management's time from other business activities. changes in laws and regulations affecting the healthcare industry could adversely affect our business. all aspects of our business, including research and development, manufacturing, marketing, pricing, sales, litigation, and intellectual property rights, are subject to extensive legislation and regulation. changes in applicable federal and state laws and agency regulations could have a materially negative impact on our business. these include: changes in the fda and foreign regulatory processes for new therapeutics that may delay or prevent the approval of any of our current or future product candidates; new laws, regulations, or judicial decisions related to healthcare availability or the payment for healthcare products and services, including prescription drugs, that would make it more difficult for us to market and sell products once they are approved by the fda or foreign regulatory agencies; changes in fda and foreign regulations that may require additional safety monitoring prior to or after the introduction of new products to market, which could materially increase our costs of doing business; and changes in fda and foreign cgmps that may make it more difficult and costly for us to maintain regulatory compliance and/or manufacture our marketed product and product candidates in accordance with cgmps. as described above, the ppaca and potential regulations thereunder easing the entry of competing follow-on biologics into the marketplace, other new legislation or implementation of existing statutory provisions on importation of lower-cost competing drugs from other jurisdictions, and legislation on comparative effectiveness research are examples of previously enacted and possible future changes in laws that could adversely affect our business. the current u.s. administration and congress could carry out significant changes in legislation, regulation, and government policy (including with respect to the possible repeal of all or portions of the ppaca, possible government reimbursement changes, and possible changes in the existing treaty and trade relationships with other countries), as evidenced by statements and recent actions of the current president and certain members of congress. while it is not possible to predict whether and when any such changes will occur, changes in the laws, regulations, and policies governing the development and approval of our product candidates and the commercialization, importation, and reimbursement of our products could adversely affect our business. in addition, our development and commercialization activities could be harmed or delayed by a shutdown of the u.s. government, including the fda. risks associated with our operations outside of the united states could adversely affect our business. we have operations and conduct business outside the united states and we plan to expand these activities. consequently, we are, and will continue to be, subject to risks related to operating in foreign countries, which include: unfamiliar foreign laws or regulatory requirements or unexpected changes to those laws or requirements; other laws and regulatory requirements to which our business activities abroad are subject, such as the fcpa and the u.k. bribery act (discussed in greater detail above under " risks from the improper conduct of employees, agents, contractors, or collaborators could adversely affect our reputation and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition "); changes in the political or economic condition of a specific country or region; fluctuations in the value of foreign currency versus the u.s. dollar; our ability to deploy overseas funds in an efficient manner; tariffs, trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements, trade embargoes, and sanctions (including those administered by the office of foreign assets control of the u.s. department of the treasury), and other trade barriers; difficulties in attracting and retaining qualified personnel; and cultural differences in the conduct of business. 51 table of contents for example, on june 23, 2016, the united kingdom held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the eu, commonly referred to as "brexit." as a result of the referendum, the british government has begun negotiating the terms of the united kingdom's future relationship with the eu. we do not know to what extent brexit will impact the business and regulatory environment in the united kingdom, the rest of the eu, or other countries. changes impacting our ability to conduct business in the united kingdom or other eu countries, or changes to the regulatory regime applicable to our operations in those countries (such as with respect to the approval of our product candidates), may materially and adversely impact our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. we may incur additional tax liabilities related to our operations. we are subject to income tax in the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide tax liabilities, and our effective tax rate is derived from a combination of the applicable statutory rates in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. we record liabilities that involve significant management judgment for uncertain tax positions. the internal revenue service or other domestic or foreign taxing authorities may disagree with our interpretation of tax law as applied to the operations of regeneron and its subsidiaries or with the positions we may take with respect to particular tax issues on our tax returns. consequently, our reported effective tax rate and our after-tax cash flows may be materially and adversely affected by tax assessments or judgments in excess of accrued amounts we have estimated in preparing our financial statements. further, our effective tax rate may also be adversely affected by numerous other factors, including changes in the mix of our profitability from country to country and changes in tax laws and regulations. changes in tax laws of various jurisdictions in which we do business could also result from the base erosion and profits shifting, or beps, recommendations by the organization for economic co-operation and development. if these recommendations (or other changes in law) were adopted by the countries in which we do business, it could adversely affect our provision for income tax and our current rate. on december 22, 2017, president trump signed into law h.r.1., "an act to provide for reconciliation pursuant to titles ii and v of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2018" (also known as the "tax cuts and jobs act") (the act). most of the provisions of the act went into effect on january 1, 2018. the act includes a number of provisions that are expected to impact our operating results, cash flows, and financial condition, including reducing the u.s. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, changing the taxation of foreign earnings (including taxation of certain global intangible low-taxed income), allowing for immediate expensing of qualified assets, repealing the deduction for domestic manufacturing, and imposing further limitations on the deductibility of executive compensation. we face potential liability related to the privacy of health information we obtain from clinical trials sponsored by us or our collaborators, from research institutions and our collaborators, and directly from individuals. most health care providers, including research institutions from which we or our collaborators obtain patient health information, are subject to privacy and security regulations promulgated under the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, or hipaa, as amended by the health information technology for economic and clinical health act. for example, as part of our human genetics initiative, our wholly-owned subsidiary, regeneron genetics center llc, has entered into collaborations with research institutions, including the geisinger health system, which are subject to such regulations. regeneron is not currently classified as a covered entity or business associate under hipaa and thus is not subject to its requirements or penalties. however, any person may be prosecuted under hipaa's criminal provisions either directly or under aiding-and-abetting or conspiracy principles. consequently, depending on the facts and circumstances, we could face substantial criminal penalties if we knowingly receive individually identifiable health information from a hipaa-covered health care provider or research institution that has not satisfied hipaa's requirements for disclosure of individually identifiable health information. in addition, we may maintain sensitive personally identifiable information, including health information, that we receive throughout the clinical trial process, in the course of our research collaborations, and directly from individuals (or their healthcare providers) who enroll in our patient assistance programs. as such, we may be subject to state laws requiring notification of affected individuals and state regulators in the event of a breach of personal information, which is a broader class of information than the health information protected by hipaa. our clinical trial programs and research collaborations outside the u.s. (such as our consortium with abbvie, alnylam pharmaceuticals, astrazeneca, biogen, and pfizer to fund the generation of genetic exome sequence data from the uk biobank health resource) may implicate international data protection laws, including the eu data protection directive and the general data protection regulation (gdpr) that is replacing it. our activities outside the u.s. impose additional compliance requirements and generate additional risks of enforcement for noncompliance, including the new risk of substantial financial penalties for data breach or improper processing of personal data under the gdpr. failure by our collaborators to comply with the strict rules on the transfer of personal data outside of the eu into the u.s. may result in the imposition of criminal and administrative sanctions on such collaborators, which could adversely affect our business and could create liability for us. furthermore, certain health privacy laws, data breach notification laws, consumer protection laws, and genetic testing laws may apply directly to our operations and/or those of our collaborators and may impose restrictions on our collection, use, and dissemination of individuals' health information. moreover, patients about whom we or our collaborators obtain health information, as well as the providers who share this information with us, may have statutory or contractual rights that limit our ability to use and disclose the information. we are 52 table of contents likely to be required to expend significant capital and other resources to ensure ongoing compliance with applicable privacy and data security laws both inside and outside the united states. claims that we have violated individuals' privacy rights or breached our contractual obligations, even if we are not found liable, could be expensive and time-consuming to defend and could result in adverse publicity that could harm our business. if we or any collaborators fail to comply with applicable federal, state, or local regulatory requirements, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions that could affect our or any collaborators' ability to commercialize our products and could harm or prevent sales of any affected products that we are able to commercialize, or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing and marketing our products. any threatened or actual government enforcement action could also generate adverse publicity and require that we devote substantial resources that could otherwise be used in other aspects of our business. increasing use of social media could give rise to liability, breaches of data security, or reputational damage. we and our employees are increasingly utilizing social media tools as a means of communication both internally and externally. despite our efforts to monitor evolving social media communication guidelines and comply with applicable rules, there is risk that the use of social media by us or our employees to communicate about our products or business may cause us to be found in violation of applicable requirements. in addition, our employees may knowingly or inadvertently make use of social media in ways that may not comply with our social media policy or other legal or contractual requirements, which may give rise to liability, lead to the loss of trade secrets or other intellectual property, or result in public exposure of personal information of our employees, clinical trial patients, customers, and others. furthermore, negative posts or comments about us or our products in social media could seriously damage our reputation, brand image, and goodwill. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. risks related to our reliance on third parties if any of our collaborations with sanofi is terminated, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition, and our ability to discover, develop, manufacture, and commercialize our pipeline of product candidates in the time expected, or at all, would be materially harmed. we rely heavily on funding from sanofi to support certain research and development programs, including our immuno-oncology research and development programs. sanofi has committed to reimburse us for up to $825.0 million of the costs of our efforts to identify and validate potential immuno-oncology targets and develop fully-human therapeutic antibodies against such targets under the io discovery and development agreement over the term of the io discovery and development agreement. sanofi also initially funds almost all of the development expenses incurred in connection with the clinical development of product candidates for which sanofi is the principal controlling party under our io collaboration. in addition, sanofi initially funds half of the development expenses incurred in connection with the clinical development of product candidates for which we are the principal controlling party under our io collaboration. we rely on sanofi to fund these activities. in addition, with respect to dupixent, praluent, kevzara, and regn3500, which sanofi co-develops with us under our antibody collaboration, or for products or product candidates for which sanofi is the principal controlling party under our io collaboration, we rely on sanofi to lead much of the clinical development efforts and assist with obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval. following regulatory approval, we also rely on sanofi to lead (i) the commercialization efforts of dupixent, praluent, kevzara, and regn3500 under our antibody collaboration and (ii) the commercialization efforts outside the unites states to support all products that are co-developed by sanofi and us under our io collaboration (as well as the commercialization efforts in the united states to support all products for which sanofi is the principal controlling party under our io collaboration). if sanofi does not elect to co-develop the product candidates discovered under our io collaboration or opts out of their development, unless we enter into a collaboration agreement with another party, we would be required to fund and conduct on our own the clinical trials, regulatory activities, and the ensuing commercialization efforts to support those antibody-based products. for example, under our antibody collaboration, sanofi elected not to continue co-development of fasinumab and trevogrumab, and decided not to opt in to the evinacumab and other programs. in addition, as previously reported, we will now be required to fund all of our antibody discovery activities and the research and preclinical development activities of our drug candidates, as sanofi's funding obligations under the antibody discovery agreement have ceased. 53 table of contents if sanofi terminates the license and collaboration agreement or the io collaboration or fails to comply with its payment obligations under any of our collaborations, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be materially harmed. we would be required to either expend substantially more resources than we have anticipated to support our research and development efforts, which could require us to seek additional funding that might not be available on favorable terms or at all, or materially cut back on such activities. if sanofi does not perform its obligations with respect to the product candidates that it elects to co-develop, our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize these product candidates will be significantly adversely affected. we have limited commercial capabilities outside the united states and would have to develop or outsource these capabilities for products commercialized under our antibody collaboration, such as dupixent, praluent, and kevzara (see also "risks related to commercialization of products - if we need to establish commercial capabilities outside the united states and are unable to do so, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be adversely affected " above). termination of the license and collaboration agreement would create substantial new and additional risks to the successful development and commercialization of dupixent, praluent, and kevzara, particularly outside the united states. if our collaboration with bayer for eylea is terminated, or bayer materially breaches its obligations thereunder, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition, and our ability to continue to commercialize eylea outside the united states would be materially harmed. we rely heavily on bayer to assist with the commercialization of eylea outside the united states. we continue to rely on bayer to obtain and maintain regulatory approval outside the united states and provide all sales, marketing, and commercial support for the product outside the united states. in particular, bayer has responsibility for selling eylea outside the united states using its sales force and, in japan, in cooperation with santen pursuant to a co-promotion and distribution agreement with bayer's japanese affiliate. if bayer and, in japan, santen do not perform their obligations in a timely manner, or at all, our ability to commercialize eylea outside the united states will be significantly adversely affected. bayer has the right to terminate its collaboration agreement with us at any time upon six or twelve months' advance notice, depending on the circumstances giving rise to termination. if bayer were to terminate its collaboration agreement with us, we may not have the resources or skills to replace those of our collaborator, which could require us to seek another collaboration that might not be available on favorable terms or at all, and could cause significant delays in the commercialization of eylea outside the united states and result in substantial additional costs to us. we have limited commercial capabilities outside the united states and would have to develop or outsource these capabilities (see also "risks related to commercialization of products - if we need to establish commercial capabilities outside the united states and are unable to do so, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be adversely affected " above). termination of the bayer collaboration agreement would create substantial new and additional risks to the successful commercialization of eylea outside the united states. our collaborators and service providers may fail to perform adequately in their efforts to support the development, manufacture, and commercialization of our drug candidates and current and future products. we depend upon third-party collaborators, including sanofi, bayer, and service providers such as cros, outside testing laboratories, clinical investigator sites, and third-party manufacturers, fill/finish, and product packagers and labelers, to assist us in the manufacture and preclinical and clinical development of our product candidates. we also depend, or will depend, on some of these third parties in connection with the commercialization of our marketed products and our late-stage product candidates and new indications for our marketed products if they are approved for marketing. if any of our existing collaborators or service providers breaches or terminates its agreement with us or does not perform its development or manufacturing services under an agreement in a timely manner (including as a result of its inability to perform due to financial or other relevant constraints) or in compliance with applicable gmps, glps, or gcp standards, we could experience additional costs, delays, and difficulties in the manufacture or development of, or in obtaining approval by regulatory authorities for, or successfully commercializing our product candidates. we and our collaborators rely on third-party service providers to support the distribution of our marketed products and for many other related activities in connection with the commercialization of these marketed products. despite our or our collaborators' arrangements with them, these third parties may not perform adequately. if these service providers do not perform their services adequately, sales of our marketed products will suffer. 54 table of contents risk related to employees we are dependent on our key personnel and if we cannot recruit and retain leaders in our research, development, manufacturing, and commercial organizations, our business will be harmed. we are highly dependent on certain of our executive officers, other key members of our senior management team, and our chairman. if we are not able to retain (or for any other reason lose the services of) any of these persons, our business may suffer. in particular, we depend on the services of p. roy vagelos, m.d., the chairman of our board of directors; leonard s. schleifer, m.d., ph.d., our president and chief executive officer; george d. yancopoulos, m.d., ph.d., our president and chief scientific officer; and neil stahl, ph.d., our executive vice president, research and development. as we continue to commercialize eylea, dupixent, praluent, and kevzara and, assuming the receipt of required regulatory approvals, other products, we are also highly dependent on the expertise and services of members of our senior management leading these commercialization efforts. there is intense competition in the biotechnology industry for qualified scientists and managerial personnel in the development, manufacture, and commercialization of drugs. we may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary to continue to advance our business and achieve our strategic objectives. information technology risks significant disruptions of information technology systems or breaches of data security could adversely affect our business. our business is increasingly dependent on critical, complex, and interdependent information technology systems, including internet-based systems, to support business processes as well as internal and external communications. the size and complexity of our computer systems make us potentially vulnerable to it system breakdowns, internal and external malicious intrusion, and computer viruses, which may impact product production and key business processes. we also have outsourced significant elements of our information technology infrastructure and operations to third parties, which may allow them to access our confidential information and may also make our systems vulnerable to service interruptions or to security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions by such third parties or others. in addition, our systems are potentially vulnerable to data security breaches - whether by employees or others - which may expose sensitive data to unauthorized persons. data security breaches could lead to the loss of trade secrets or other intellectual property, result in demands for ransom or other forms of blackmail, or lead to the public exposure of personal information (including sensitive personal information) of our employees, clinical trial patients, customers, and others. such attacks are of ever-increasing levels of sophistication and are made by groups and individuals with a wide range of motives (including industrial espionage) and expertise, including by organized criminal groups, hacktivists, nation states, and others. as a company with an increasingly global presence, our systems are subject to frequent attacks. due to the nature of some of these attacks, there is a risk that an attack may remain undetected for a period of time. while we continue to make investments to improve the protection of data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent service interruptions or security breaches. such disruptions and breaches of security could result in legal proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, disruptions to our operations, and damage to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. risks related to our financial results, liquidity, and need for additional financing if we cannot sustain profitability, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be materially harmed. beginning in 2012, we reported profitability; prior to that, we generally incurred net losses. if we cannot sustain profitability, we may be unable to continue our operations. in the absence of substantial revenue from the sale of products on an ongoing basis, including our sales of eylea, and our share of the profits from bayer's sales of eylea outside the united states, or from other sources, the amount, timing, nature, or source of which cannot be predicted, we may incur substantial losses again as we conduct our research and development activities, commercialize our approved products, and prepare for possible commercialization of our other product candidates and new indications of our marketed products. 55 table of contents we may need additional funding in the future, which may not be available to us, and which may force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts. we expend substantial resources for research and development, including costs associated with clinical testing of our product candidates and new indications of our marketed products, the commercialization of products, and capital expenditures. we believe our existing capital resources and borrowing availability under our revolving credit facility, together with funds generated by current and anticipated eylea net product sales and funding we are entitled to receive under our collaboration agreements, will enable us to meet our anticipated operating needs for the foreseeable future. however, one or more of our collaboration agreements may terminate, our revenues may fall short of our projections or be delayed, or our expenses may increase, any of which could result in our capital being consumed significantly faster than anticipated. in addition, our expenses may increase for many reasons, including expenses in connection with the commercialization of our marketed products and the potential commercial launches of our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products, manufacturing scale-up, expenses related to clinical trials testing of antibody-based product candidates we are developing on our own (without a collaborator), and expenses for which we are responsible in accordance with the terms of our collaboration agreements. we cannot be certain that our existing capital resources and our current and anticipated revenues will be sufficient to meet our operating needs. we may require additional financing in the future and we may not be able to raise additional funds on acceptable terms or at all. for example, in march 2017, we completed $720.0 million lease financing for our existing corporate headquarters and other rentable area consisting of approximately 170 acres of predominately office buildings and laboratory space located in the towns of mount pleasant and greenburgh, ny, which will become due and payable in full on the five-year anniversary of the closing date unless extended with the consent of all the participants and subject to certain other conditions. our ability to refinance or to obtain additional financing could be adversely affected if there is a significant decline in the demand for our products or other significantly unfavorable changes in economic conditions. volatility in the financial markets could increase borrowing costs or affect our ability to raise capital. if additional financing is necessary and we obtain it through the sale of equity securities, such sales will likely be dilutive to our shareholders. debt financing arrangements may require us to pledge certain assets or enter into covenants that would restrict our business activities or our ability to incur further indebtedness and may be at interest rates and contain other terms that are not favorable to our shareholders. should we require and be unable to raise sufficient funds (i) to complete the development of our product candidates, (ii) to successfully commercialize our late-stage product candidates or new indications for our marketed products if they obtain regulatory approval, and (iii) to continue our manufacturing and marketing of our marketed products, we may face delay, reduction, or elimination of our research and development or preclinical or clinical programs and our commercialization activities, which would significantly limit our potential to generate revenue. changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. our revenue from outside of the united states will increase as our products, whether marketed by us or our collaborators, gain marketing approval in such jurisdictions. our primary foreign currency exposure relates to movements in the japanese yen, euro, british pound sterling, and australian dollar. if the u.s. dollar weakens against a specific foreign currency, our revenues will increase, having a positive impact on net income, but our overall expenses will increase, having a negative impact. likewise, if the u.s. dollar strengthens against a specific foreign currency, our revenues will decrease, having a negative impact on net income, but our overall expenses will decrease, having a positive impact. therefore, significant changes in foreign exchange rates can impact our operating results and the financial condition of our company. our investments are subject to risks and other external factors that may result in losses or affect the liquidity of these investments. as of december 31, 2017, we had $812.7 million in cash and cash equivalents and $2,083.3 million in marketable securities (including $62.8 million in equity securities). our investments consist primarily of fixed-income securities, including investment-grade corporate bonds. these fixed-income investments are subject to external factors that may adversely affect their market value or liquidity, such as interest rate, liquidity, market, and issuer credit risks, including actual or anticipated changes in credit ratings. the equity securities we hold may experience significant volatility and may decline in value or become worthless if the issuer experiences an adverse development. furthermore, our equity investments could be subject to dilution (and decline in value) as a result of the issuance of additional equity interests. if any of our investments suffer market price declines that are other than temporary, their value could be impaired, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. 56 table of contents risks related to our common stock our stock price is extremely volatile. there has been significant volatility in our stock price and generally in the market prices of biotechnology companies' securities. various factors and events may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. these factors include, by way of example: net product sales of our marketed products, in particular eylea and dupixent, as well as our overall operating results; if any of our product candidates or our new indications for our marketed products receive regulatory approval, net product sales of, and profits from, these product candidates and new indications; market acceptance of, and the market share for, our marketed products, especially eylea and dupixent; whether our net products sales and net profits underperform, meet, or exceed the expectations of investors or analysts; announcement of actions by the fda or foreign regulatory authorities or their respective advisory committees regarding our, or our collaborators', or our competitors', currently pending or future application(s) for regulatory approval of product candidate(s) or new indications for marketed products; announcement of submission of an application for regulatory approval of one or more of our, or our competitors', product candidates or new indications for marketed products; progress, delays, or results in clinical trials of our or our competitors' product candidates or new indications for marketed products; announcement of technological innovations or product candidates by us or competitors; claims by others that our products or technologies infringe their patents; challenges by others to our patents in the epo and in the uspto; public concern as to the safety or effectiveness of any of our marketed products or product candidates or new indications for our marketed products; pricing or reimbursement actions, decisions, or recommendations by government authorities, insurers, or other organizations (such as health maintenance organizations and pharmacy benefit management companies) affecting the coverage, reimbursement, or use of any of our marketed products or competitors' products; our ability to raise additional capital as needed on favorable terms; developments in our relationships with collaborators or key customers; developments in the biotechnology industry or in government regulation of healthcare, including those relating to compounding; large sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors, or significant shareholders; changes in tax rates, laws, or interpretation of tax laws; arrivals and departures of key personnel; general market conditions; trading activity that results from the rebalancing of stock indices in which our common stock is included, or the inclusion or exclusion of our common stock from such indices; other factors identified in these "risk factors"; and the perception by the investment community or our shareholders of any of the foregoing factors. the trading price of our common stock has been, and could continue to be, subject to wide fluctuations in response to these and other factors, including the sale or attempted sale of a large amount of our common stock in the market. as discussed in greater detail under " future sales of our common stock by our significant shareholders or us may depress our stock price and impair our ability to raise funds in new share offerings " below, a large percentage of our common stock is owned by a small number of our principal shareholders, and our largest shareholder, sanofi, has been maintaining its percentage ownership of our common stock but has previously publicly disclosed that it may opportunistically increase its percentage ownership of our common stock (note, however, that we have agreed to grant a limited waiver of the requirement that sanofi maintain the highest percentage threshold (as defined below) as a condition to its director designation right during the term of the letter agreement with sanofi described below under " our existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval and over our management "). as a result, the public float of our common stock ( i.e. , the portion of our common stock held by public investors, as opposed to the common stock held by our directors, officers, and principal shareholders) is low relative to many large public companies. as our common stock is less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership, its trading price may fluctuate significantly more than the stock market as a whole. these factors may exacerbate the volatility in the trading price of our common stock and may negatively impact your ability to liquidate your investment in regeneron at the time you wish at a price you consider satisfactory. broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the market price of our common stock. in the past, securities class action litigation has often been initiated against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. this type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources, and could also require us to make substantial payments to satisfy judgments or to settle litigation, which may harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. 57 table of contents future sales of our common stock by our significant shareholders or us may depress our stock price and impair our ability to raise funds in new share offerings. a small number of our shareholders beneficially own a substantial amount of our common stock. as of december 31, 2017, our five largest shareholders plus dr. schleifer, our chief executive officer, beneficially owned approximately 47.2% of our outstanding shares of common stock, assuming, in the case of our chief executive officer, the conversion of his class a stock into common stock and the exercise of all options held by him which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2017. as of december 31, 2017, sanofi beneficially owned 23,880,537 shares of our common stock, representing approximately 22.6% of the shares of common stock then outstanding. under our january 2014 amended and restated investor agreement with sanofi, sanofi has three demand rights to require us to use all reasonable efforts to conduct a registered underwritten offering with respect to shares of our common stock held by sanofi from time to time; however, shares of our common stock held by sanofi from time to time are subject to a "lock-up" and may not be sold until december 20, 2020 (other than with respect to an aggregate of up to 1,400,000 shares, as to which we have agreed to waive the lock-up during the term of the letter agreement with sanofi described below under " our existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval and over our management "). these restrictions on dispositions are subject to earlier termination upon the occurrence of certain events, such as the consummation of a change-of-control transaction involving us or a dissolution or liquidation of our company. in december 2015, sanofi disclosed in an amendment to its schedule 13d filed with the sec its intention to purchase (subject to market conditions, including the price and availability of shares of our common stock, and legal and regulatory requirements) additional shares of our common stock to maintain and opportunistically increase its beneficial ownership on a percentage basis up to the maximum allowed under the "standstill" provisions of our amended and restated investor agreement with sanofi, or 30% of our class a stock and common stock (taken together). if sanofi, our other significant shareholders, or we sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market (including, in the case of sanofi, as a result of the lock-up waiver referred to above), or there is a perception that such sales may occur, the market price of our common stock could fall. sales of common stock by our significant shareholders, including sanofi, also might make it more difficult for us to raise funds by selling equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. our existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval and over our management. holders of class a stock, who are generally the shareholders who purchased their stock from us before our initial public offering, are entitled to ten votes per share, while holders of common stock are entitled to one vote per share. as of december 31, 2017, holders of class a stock held 15.3% of the combined voting power of all shares of common stock and class a stock then outstanding. these shareholders, if acting together, would be in a position to significantly influence the election of our directors and the vote on certain corporate transactions that require majority or supermajority approval of the combined classes, including mergers and other business combinations. this may result in our taking corporate actions that other shareholders may not consider to be in their best interest and may affect the price of our common stock. as of december 31, 2017: our current executive officers and directors beneficially owned 10.4% of our outstanding shares of common stock, assuming conversion of their class a stock into common stock and the exercise of all options held by such persons which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2017, and 21.5% of the combined voting power of our outstanding shares of common stock and class a stock, assuming the exercise of all options held by such persons which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2017; and our five largest shareholders plus dr. schleifer, our chief executive officer, beneficially owned approximately 47.2% of our outstanding shares of common stock, assuming, in the case of our chief executive officer, the conversion of his class a stock into common stock and the exercise of all options held by him which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2017. in addition, these five shareholders plus our chief executive officer held approximately 53.0% of the combined voting power of our outstanding shares of common stock and class a stock, assuming the exercise of all options held by our chief executive officer which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2017. pursuant to the january 2014 amended and restated investor agreement with us, sanofi has agreed to vote its shares as recommended by our board of directors, except that it may elect to vote proportionally with the votes cast by all of our other shareholders with respect to certain change-of-control transactions and to vote in its sole discretion with respect to liquidation or dissolution of our company, stock issuances equal to or exceeding 20% of the outstanding shares or voting rights of common stock and class a stock (taken together), and new equity compensation plans or amendments if not materially consistent with our historical equity compensation practices. in addition, we are required under the amended and restated investor agreement to appoint an individual agreed upon by us and sanofi to our board of directors. subject to certain exceptions, we are required to use our reasonable efforts (including recommending that our shareholders vote in favor) to cause the election of this designee at our annual shareholder meetings for so long as (other than during the term of the letter agreement described below) sanofi maintains an equity interest in us that is the lower of (i) the highest percentage ownership sanofi attains following its acquisition of 20% of our outstanding shares of class 58 table of contents a stock and common stock (taken together) (which occurred in april 2014), and (ii) 25% of our outstanding shares of class a stock and common stock (taken together) (highest percentage threshold). this designee is required to be "independent" of our company, as determined under nasdaq rules, and not to be a current or former officer, director, employee, or paid consultant of sanofi. the current sanofi designee, n. anthony coles, m.d., is a class ii director whose current term expires at the 2020 annual shareholder meeting. effective january 7, 2018, we and sanofi and certain of sanofi's direct and indirect subsidiaries entered into a letter agreement in connection with (a) the increase of the development budget amount for cemiplimab set forth in the io license and collaboration agreement and (b) the allocation of additional funds to certain proposed activities relating to the development of dupilumab and regn3500 and non-approval trials of dupilumab (the dupilumab/regn3500 eligible investments). pursuant to the letter agreement, we have agreed, among other things, to grant a limited waiver of sanofi's obligation to maintain the highest percentage threshold during the term of the letter agreement in order to allow sanofi to satisfy in whole or in part (a) its funding obligations with respect to the cemiplimab development costs under the io license and collaboration agreement for the quarterly periods commencing on october 1, 2017 and ending on september 30, 2020 by selling up to 800,000 shares of our common stock directly or indirectly owned by sanofi and (b) its funding obligations with respect to the costs incurred by or on behalf of the parties to the antibody license and collaboration agreement with respect to the dupilumab/regn3500 eligible investments for the quarterly periods commencing on january 1, 2018 and ending on september 30, 2020 by selling up to 600,000 shares of our common stock directly or indirectly owned by sanofi. in addition, we and sanofi have agreed that, upon termination of the letter agreement, the amended and restated investor agreement will be amended to define "highest percentage threshold" as the lower of (i) 25% of our outstanding shares of class a stock and common stock (taken together) and (ii) the higher of (a) sanofi's percentage ownership of class a stock and common stock (taken together) on such termination date and (b) the highest percentage ownership of our outstanding shares of class a stock and common stock (taken together) sanofi attains following such termination date. the anti-takeover effects of provisions of our charter, by-laws, and of new york corporate law, as well as the contractual provisions in our investor and collaboration agreements and certain provisions of our compensation plans and agreements, could deter, delay, or prevent an acquisition or other "change in control" of us and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. our certificate of incorporation, our by-laws, and the new york business corporation law contain various provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company or our management that shareholders may consider favorable or beneficial. some of these provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. these provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. these provisions include: authorization to issue "blank check" preferred stock, which is preferred stock that can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior shareholder approval, with rights senior to those of our common stock and class a stock; a staggered board of directors, so that it would take three successive annual shareholder meetings to replace all of our directors; a requirement that removal of directors may only be effected for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of at least eighty percent (80%) of the outstanding shares entitled to vote for directors, as well as a requirement that any vacancy on the board of directors may be filled only by the remaining directors; a provision whereby any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of shareholders may be taken without a meeting, only if, prior to such action, all of our shareholders consent, the effect of which is to require that shareholder action may only be taken at a duly convened meeting; a requirement that any shareholder seeking to bring business before an annual meeting of shareholders must provide timely notice of this intention in writing and meet various other requirements; and under the new york business corporation law, in addition to certain restrictions which may apply to "business combinations" involving our company and an "interested shareholder," a plan of merger or consolidation of our company must be approved by two-thirds of the votes of all outstanding shares entitled to vote thereon. see the risk factor above captioned " our existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval and over our management. " pursuant to the january 2014 amended and restated investor agreement between us and sanofi, sanofi is bound by certain "standstill" provisions, which contractually prohibit sanofi from seeking to directly or indirectly exert control of our company or acquiring more than 30% of our class a stock and common stock (taken together). this prohibition will remain in place until the earliest of (i) the later of the fifth anniversaries of the expiration or earlier termination of our license and collaboration agreement with sanofi relating to our antibody collaboration or our zaltrap collaboration agreement with sanofi, each as amended; (ii) our announcement recommending acceptance by our shareholders of a tender offer or exchange offer that, if consummated, would constitute a change of control involving us; (iii) the public announcement of any definitive agreement 59 table of contents providing for a change of control involving us; (iv) the date of any issuance of shares of common stock by us that would result in another party having more than 10% of the voting power of our outstanding class a stock and common stock (taken together) unless such party enters into a standstill agreement containing certain terms substantially similar to the standstill obligations of sanofi; or (v) other specified events, such as a liquidation or dissolution of our company. similarly, under our 2016 ang2 license and collaboration agreement with bayer, bayer is bound by certain "standstill" provisions, which contractually prohibit bayer from seeking to influence the control of our company or acquiring more than 20% of our outstanding class a stock and common stock (taken together). this prohibition will remain in place until the earliest of (i) the fifth anniversary of the expiration or earlier termination of the agreement; (ii) the public announcement of a tender offer, exchange offer, or other proposal that would constitute a change of control of our company; (iii) the acquisition by a third party or a group of third parties (other than by dr. schleifer or his affiliates) of more than 20% of the voting power of our outstanding class a stock and common stock (taken together); (iv) the issuance of shares of capital stock to another party (other than to an underwriter in a public offering) that would result in such party's having more than 7% of the voting power of our outstanding class a stock and common stock (taken together) unless such third party enters into a standstill agreement containing terms substantially similar to the standstill obligations of bayer; or (v) other specified events, such as a liquidation or dissolution of our company. further, pursuant to the 2016 collaboration agreement between us and teva, teva and its affiliates are bound by certain "standstill" provisions, which contractually prohibit them from seeking to directly or indirectly exert control of our company or acquiring more than 5% of our class a stock and common stock (taken together). this prohibition will remain in place until the earliest of (i) the fifth anniversary of the expiration or earlier termination of the agreement; (ii) our announcement recommending acceptance by our shareholders of a tender offer or exchange offer that, if consummated, would constitute a change of control involving us; (iii) the public announcement of any definitive agreement providing for a change of control involving us; (iv) the acquisition by a third party or a group of third parties of more than 30% of the voting power of our outstanding class a stock and common stock (taken together); (v) the date of any issuance of shares of capital stock by us that would result in another party having more than 10% of the voting power of our outstanding class a stock and common stock (taken together) unless such party enters into a standstill agreement containing certain terms substantially similar to the standstill obligations of teva; or (vi) other specified events, such as a liquidation or dissolution of our company. in addition, our change in control severance plan and the employment agreement with our chief executive officer, each as amended and restated, provide for severance benefits in the event of termination as a result of a change in control of our company. also, stock option awards issued under our second amended and restated 2000 long-term incentive plan, our 2014 long-term incentive plan, and our amended and restated 2014 long-term incentive plan may become fully vested in connection with a "change in control" of our company, as defined in the plans. further, under the amended and restated investor agreement between us and sanofi, we are required to appoint an individual agreed upon by us and sanofi to our board of directors and to use our reasonable efforts to cause the election of this designee at our annual shareholder meetings for so long as sanofi maintains a specified equity interest in us. as described above under " our existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval and over our management ," a sanofi designee currently serves on our board of directors. these contractual provisions may also have the effect of deterring, delaying, or preventing an acquisition or other change in control. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 85 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our earnings and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to changes in interest rates, principally in connection with our investments in marketable securities, which consist primarily of corporate bonds, direct obligations of the u.s. government and its agencies and other debt securities guaranteed by the u.s. government, and municipal bonds. we do not believe we are materially exposed to changes in interest rates related to our investments, and we do not currently use interest rate derivative instruments to manage exposure to interest rate changes of our investments. we estimate that a 100 basis point, or 1%, unfavorable change in interest rates would have resulted in approximately a $23.2 million and $20.9 million decrease in the fair value of our investment portfolio as of december 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. 85 table of contents we have exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates, including the interest rate risk relating to our march 2017 variable rate tarrytown, new york lease (as described in item 7. "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - liquidity and capital resources - tarrytown, new york leases "). our interest rate exposure is primarily offset by our investments in marketable securities. in addition, beginning in the second quarter of 2017, we began to further manage our interest rate exposure through the use of derivative instruments. all of our derivative instruments are utilized for risk management purposes, and are not used for trading or speculative purposes. we continue to monitor our interest rate risk and may utilize additional derivative instruments and/or other strategies in the future to further mitigate our interest rate exposure. we have hedged a portion of our floating interest rate exposure using interest rate swap and interest rate cap contracts (see note 6 to our consolidated financial statements). we estimate that a 100 basis point, or 1%, unfavorable change in interest rates would not have a material impact on the fair value of our interest rate swap or interest rate cap contracts. the following table summarizes the notional amounts of our outstanding interest rate swap and cap contracts as of december 31, 2017 : (in millions) notional amount interest rate swap contracts $ 75.0 interest rate cap contracts $ 75.0 credit quality risk we have an investment policy that includes guidelines on acceptable investment securities, minimum credit quality, maturity parameters, and concentration and diversification. nonetheless, deterioration of the credit quality of an investment security subsequent to purchase may subject us to the risk of not being able to recover the full principal value of the security. in 2017 and 2015, we recorded no charges for other-than-temporary impairments of our marketable securities, and in 2016, we recorded an other-than-temporary impairment charge of $9.8 million related to our investment in an equity security. we are subject to credit risk associated with the receivables due from our collaborators bayer, sanofi, and teva. we are also subject to credit risk in connection with accounts receivable from our product sales of eylea and arcalyst. these accounts receivable are due from several distributors and specialty pharmacies, who are our customers. we have contractual payment terms with each of our customers, and we monitor our customers' financial performance and credit worthiness so that we can properly assess and respond to any changes in their credit profile. in addition, we may insure a portion of our accounts receivables within our overall risk management practices. during 2017 , 2016 , and 2015, we did not recognize any charges for write-offs of accounts receivable related to our marketed products. as of december 31, 2017 and 2016, three customers accounted on a combined basis for 99% of our net trade accounts receivables. foreign exchange risk as discussed further above, bayer markets eylea outside the united states and sanofi markets dupixent, praluent, and kevzara worldwide, and we share in profits and losses with these collaborators from commercialization of products (including the receipt of a percentage of eylea sales in japan). in addition, pursuant to the applicable terms of the agreements with our collaborators, we also share in certain worldwide development expenses incurred by our collaborators. we also incur worldwide development expenses for clinical products we are developing independently, in addition to incurring expenses outside of the united states in connection with our international operations. therefore, significant changes in foreign exchange rates of the countries outside the united states where our product is sold, where development expenses are incurred by us or our collaborators, or where we incur operating expenses can impact our operating results and financial condition. as sales outside the united states continue to grow, and as we expand our international operations, we will continue to assess potential steps, including foreign currency hedging and other strategies, to mitigate our foreign exchange risk.risk factors 30 "risk factors," which could cause actual events and results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. we do not undertake any obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. general regeneron pharmaceuticals, inc. is a fully integrated biotechnology company that discovers, invents, develops, manufactures, and commercializes medicines for the treatment of serious diseases. our commercialized medicines and product candidates in development are designed to help patients with eye diseases, allergic and inflammatory diseases, cancer, cardiovascular and metabolic diseases, neuromuscular diseases, infectious diseases, and rare diseases. selected financial information is summarized as follows: year ended december 31, (in millions, except per share data) 2018 2017 2016 revenues $ 6,710.8 $ 5,872.2 $ 4,860.4 net income $ 2,444.4 $ 1,198.5 $ 895.5 net income per share - diluted $ 21.29 $ 10.34 $ 7.70 2 table of contents marketed products we currently have seven products that have received marketing approval: product disease area (1) territory u.s. eu japan certain other countries outside the u.s. eylea (aflibercept) injection (2) neovascular age-related macular degeneration (wet amd) a a a a diabetic macular edema (dme) a a a a macular edema following retinal vein occlusion (rvo), which includes macular edema following central retinal vein occlusion (crvo) and macular edema following branch retinal vein occlusion (brvo) a a a a myopic choroidal neovascularization (mcnv) a a a diabetic retinopathy in patients with dme a dupixent (dupilumab) injection (3) atopic dermatitis (in adults) a a a a asthma (in adults and adolescents) a praluent (alirocumab) injection (3) heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (hefh) or clinical atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ascvd) (in adults) a a a a kevzara (sarilumab) solution for subcutaneous injection (3) rheumatoid arthritis (ra) (in adults) a a a a libtayo (cemiplimab) injection (3)(5) metastatic or locally advanced cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cscc) a arcalyst (rilonacept) injection for subcutaneous use cryopyrin-associated periodic syndromes (caps), including familial cold auto-inflammatory syndrome (fcas) and muckle-wells syndrome (mws) a zaltrap (ziv-aflibercept) injection for intravenous infusion (4) metastatic colorectal cancer (mcrc) a a a a (1) refer to label information in each territory for specific indication (2) in collaboration with bayer (outside the united states) (3) in collaboration with sanofi (4) pursuant to a 2015 amended and restated zaltrap agreement, sanofi is solely responsible for the development and commercialization of zaltrap, and sanofi pays us a percentage of aggregate net sales of zaltrap (5) marketed as libtayo (cemiplimab-rwlc) injection in the united states 3 table of contents net product sales of regeneron-discovered products (2) year ended december 31, (in millions) 2018 2017 2016 u.s. row (1) total u.s. row (1) total u.s. row (1) total eylea (2) $ 4,076.7 $ 2,668.9 $ 6,745.6 $ 3,701.9 $ 2,226.9 $ 5,928.8 $ 3,323.1 $ 1,872.3 $ 5,195.4 libtayo 14.8 14.8 arcalyst 14.7 14.7 16.6 16.6 15.3 15.3 net product sales recorded by regeneron $ 4,106.2 $ 3,718.5 $ 3,338.4 net product sales recorded by sanofi (2) : dupixent $ 776.3 $ 145.7 $ 922.0 $ 253.8 $ 2.7 $ 256.5 praluent $ 181.3 $ 125.5 $ 306.8 $ 131.4 $ 63.3 $ 194.7 $ 94.4 $ 21.9 $ 116.3 kevzara $ 74.7 $ 21.9 $ 96.6 $ 11.6 $ 1.7 $ 13.3 zaltrap $ 9.0 $ 98.8 $ 107.8 $ 10.7 $ 73.1 $ 83.8 $ 16.6 $ 55.7 $ 72.3 (1) rest of world (2) bayer records net product sales of eylea outside the united states and sanofi records global net product sales of dupixent, praluent, kevzara, and zaltrap. refer to "general" above and "collaboration agreements" below for further details. programs in clinical development all 21 of our product candidates in clinical development were discovered in our research laboratories and are summarized below. we used our velocimmune technology to generate each of the antibodies in the table below. there are numerous uncertainties associated with drug development, including uncertainties related to safety and efficacy data from each phase of drug development (including any post-approval studies), uncertainties related to the enrollment and performance of clinical trials, changes in regulatory requirements, and changes in the competitive landscape affecting a product candidate. refer to item 1a. "risk factors" for a description of these and other risks and uncertainties that may affect our clinical programs. clinical program phase 1 phase 2 phase 3 regulatory review (i) eylea non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy (npdr) in patients without dme diabetic retinopathy (u.s.) dupixent (dupilumab) (a) antibody to il-4r alpha subunit grass allergy atopic dermatitis in adolescents and pediatrics (6 11 years of age) (d) asthma in adults and adolescents (eu and japan) peanut allergy atopic dermatitis in pediatrics (6 months 5 years of age) (phase 2/3) (d) atopic dermatitis in adolescents (12 17 years of age) (u.s. and eu) asthma in pediatrics (6 11 years of age) auto-injector for 200 mg dose (u.s. and eu) eosinophilic esophagitis (eoe) (phase 2/3) (c) chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyposis (crswnp) (u.s.) 4 table of contents clinical program (continued) phase 1 phase 2 phase 3 regulatory review (i) praluent (alirocumab) (a) antibody to pcsk9 homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (hofh) (c) in adults and pediatrics cardiovascular risk reduction (u.s. and eu) hefh in pediatrics first-line treatment of hyperlipidemia (u.s.) kevzara (sarilumab) (a) antibody to il-6r polyarticular-course juvenile idiopathic arthritis (pcjia) polymyalgia rheumatica systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis (sjia) giant cell arteritis libtayo (cemiplimab) (a) antibody to pd-1 (h) solid tumors and advanced hematologic malignancies metastatic or locally advanced cscc (d) first-line non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc) metastatic or locally advanced cscc (eu) basal cell carcinoma (bcc) (potentially pivotal study) second-line cervical cancer fasinumab (b)(f) (regn475) antibody to ngf osteoarthritis of knee and hip (e) evinacumab (f) (regn1500) antibody to angptl3 refractory hypercholesterolemia (both hefh and non-fh) hofh (c)(d) severe hypertriglyceridemia garetosmab (f) (regn2477) antibody to activin a muscle-wasting diseases (in combination with trevogrumab) fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva (fop) (c)(e) (potentially pivotal study) regn3500 (a) antibody to il-33. studied as monotherapy and in combination with dupixent. asthma chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd) atopic dermatitis trevogrumab (f) (regn1033) antibody to myostatin (gdf8) muscle-wasting diseases (in combination with garetosmab) regn1908-1909 (f) multi-antibody therapy to feld1 cat allergy regn1979 bispecific antibody against cd20 and cd3 certain b-cell malignancies (monotherapy and in combination with libtayo) (c) regn-eb3 (g) (regn3470-3471-3479) multi-antibody therapy to ebola virus ebola virus infection (c) 5 table of contents clinical program (continued) phase 1 phase 2 phase 3 regulatory review (i) regn3048-3051 (g) multi-antibody therapy to middle east respiratory syndrome (mers) virus mers virus infection regn3767 (f) antibody to lag-3 protein advanced cancers (administered alone or in combination with libtayo) pozelimab (f) (regn3918) antibody to c5 paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (pnh) regn4461 agonist antibody to leptin receptor (lepr) lipodystrophy and obesity regn4018 (a) bispecific antibody targeting muc16 and cd3 platinum-resistant ovarian cancer (administered alone or in combination with libtayo) regn4659 (f) antibody to ctla4 advanced nsclc (administered alone or in combination with libtayo) regn5069 antibody to gfr 3 pain regn5458 (a) bispecific antibody targeting bcma and cd3 multiple myeloma (a) in collaboration with sanofi (b) in collaboration with teva and mitsubishi tanabe pharma (c) u.s. food and drug administration (fda) granted orphan drug designation (d) fda granted breakthrough therapy designation (e) fda granted fast track designation (f) sanofi did not opt-in to or elected not to continue to co-develop the product candidate. under the terms of our agreement, sanofi is entitled to receive royalties on any future global sales of the product candidate. (g) sanofi did not opt-in to the product candidate. under the terms of our agreement, sanofi is entitled to receive royalties on any future sales of the product candidate. we and the biomedical advanced research development authority (barda) of the u.s. department of health and human services (hhs) are parties to agreements whereby hhs provides certain funding to support research, development, and manufacturing of these antibodies. (h) studied as monotherapy and in combination with other antibodies and treatments (i) regulatory application submitted. information in this column relates to u.s., european union (eu), and japan submissions only. our core business strategy is to maintain a strong foundation in basic scientific research and discovery-enabling technologies, and to build on that foundation with our clinical development, manufacturing, and commercial capabilities. our objective is to continue to be an integrated, multi-product biotechnology company that provides patients and medical professionals with important options for preventing and treating human diseases. we believe that our ability to develop product candidates is enhanced by the application of our velocisuite technology platforms. our discovery platforms are designed to identify specific proteins of therapeutic interest for a particular disease or cell type and validate these targets through high-throughput production of genetically modified mice using our velocigene technology to understand the role of these proteins in normal physiology, as well as in models of disease. our human antibody technology ( velocimmune ) and cell line expression technologies ( velocimab ) may then be utilized to discover and produce new product candidates directed against the disease target. our antibody product candidates currently in clinical trials were developed using velocimmune . we continue to invest in the development of enabling technologies to assist in our efforts to identify, develop, manufacture, and commercialize new product candidates. 6 table of contents the planning, execution, and results of our clinical programs are significant factors that can affect our operating and financial results. in our clinical programs, key events in 2018 and 2019 to date were, and select 2019 milestones for the remainder of 2019 are, as follows: clinical program 2018 and 2019 events to date select 2019 milestones eylea chinese state food and drug administration (cfda) approved eylea for dme and wet amd fda decision on sbla for the treatment of diabetic retinopathy (target action date of may 13, 2019) reported 24-week positive top-line results from phase 3 panorama study for the treatment of npdr in patients without dme re-submission of prior-approval supplement (pas) for pre-filled syringe initiate a study of a high dose formulation of aflibercept reported that the phase 3 panorama study met its one-year primary endpoint and key secondary endpoints submitted sbla for the treatment of diabetic retinopathy fda issued complete response letter (crl) regarding the sbla for pre-filled syringe treat and extend dosing regimen approved in the eu for wet amd fda approved sbla for every 12-week dosing regimen option after one year of effective therapy in patients with wet amd fda approved sbla for vial-only presentation dupixent (dupilumab; il-4r antibody) ministry of health, labor and welfare (mhlw) in japan approved dupixent for the treatment of atopic dermatitis in adults not adequately controlled with existing therapies fda decision on sbla for expanded atopic dermatitis indication in adolescent patients (12 17 years of age) (target action date of march 11, 2019) initiated phase 2/3 study in pediatric patients (6 months 5 years of age) with severe atopic dermatitis report results from phase 3 study in pediatric patients (6 11 years of age) with atopic dermatitis reported positive results from phase 3 study in adolescent patients (12 17 years of age) with atopic dermatitis european medicines agency (ema) decision on regulatory application for asthma fda accepted for priority review sbla for expanded atopic dermatitis indication in adolescent patients (12 17 years of age) initiate phase 2/3 program in copd fda (target action date of march 11, 2019) and ema decisions on applications for 200 mg auto-injector submitted marketing authorization application (maa) for expanded atopic dermatitis indication in adolescent patients (12 17 years of age) fda approved sbla for moderate-to-severe asthma in patients 12 years of age and older regulatory application for asthma accepted for review by the ema and pharmaceuticals and medical devices agency (pmda) in japan positive results from two phase 3 trials for the treatment of moderate-to-severe asthma published in the new england journal of medicine initiated phase 2 study in grass allergy 7 table of contents clinical program (continued) 2018 and 2019 events to date select 2019 milestones dupixent (dupilumab; il-4r antibody) (continued) initiated phase 2/3 study in eosinophilic esophagitis initiated phase 2 study in peanut allergy submitted sbla for auto-injector for 200 mg dose reported positive top-line results from both phase 3 trials of patients with crswnp submitted sbla for crswnp praluent (alirocumab; pcsk9 antibody) reported positive results from odyssey outcomes study fda (target action date of april 28, 2019) and ema decisions on applications for cardiovascular risk reduction submitted sbla and maa variation for cardiovascular risk reduction european medicine agency's committee for medicinal products for human use (chmp) recommended approval for a new indication to reduce cardiovascular risk fda decision on sbla for first-line treatment of hyperlipidemia (target action date of april 29, 2019) submitted sbla for first-line treatment of hyperlipidemia initiated phase 3 pediatric studies in hefh and hofh fda approved sbla for use with apheresis kevzara (sarilumab; il-6r antibody) fda approved sbla for single-dose pre-filled pen presentation initiated phase 2 study in sjia initiated phase 3 study in polymyalgia rheumatica initiated phase 3 study in giant cell arteritis libtayo (cemiplimab; pd-1 antibody) ema accepted for review maa for advanced cscc regulatory agency decision for advanced cscc in the eu positive results from pivotal trial in advanced cscc published in the new england journal of medicine continue patient enrollment in nsclc and various other studies fda approved bla for the treatment of advanced cscc reported positive results from phase 1 study in advanced nsclc initiated additional phase 3 studies in advanced nsclc fasinumab (ngf antibody) completed patient enrollment in the efficacy sub-study of the phase 3 long-term safety study in osteoarthritis continue patient enrollment in phase 3 long-term safety study and phase 3 efficacy studies in osteoarthritis independent data monitoring committee (dmc) recommended higher dose-regimens be discontinued, and osteoarthritis trials modified accordingly discontinued dosing in chronic low back pain in patients with concomitant osteoarthritis of the knee and hip reported positive top-line results from first phase 3 efficacy study in osteoarthritis 8 table of contents clinical program (continued) 2018 and 2019 events to date select 2019 milestones evinacumab (angptl3 antibody) initiated phase 3 study in hofh report results from phase 3 study in hofh completed patient enrollment in phase 3 study in hofh initiated phase 2 study in severe hypertriglyceridemia garetosmab (regn2477; activin a antibody) initiated potentially pivotal phase 2 study in patients with fop regn3500 (il-33 antibody) initiated phase 2 study in asthma report results from phase 2 study in asthma completed patient enrollment in phase 2 study in asthma initiated phase 2 study in copd initiated phase 2 study in atopic dermatitis trevogrumab (gdf8 antibody) in combination with garetosmab reported positive results from single-dose portion of phase 1 study report results from multi-dose portion of phase 1 study regn1908-1909 (feld1 antibody) initiate phase 2 study in cat allergic asthmatics regn1979 (cd20 and cd3 antibody) fda granted orphan drug designation in follicular lymphoma (fl) initiate potentially pivotal phase 2 study in fl presented positive results from phase 1 study in patients with relapsed or refractory b-cell non-hodgkin lymphoma at american society of hematology (ash) annual meeting initiate potentially pivotal phase 2 study in diffuse large b-cell lymphoma (dlbcl) regn-eb3 (regn3470-3471-3479; multi-antibody therapy to ebola virus) being used investigationally in the democratic republic of the congo in ebola virus infection outbreak included in randomized controlled trial run by world health organization regn3048-3051 (multiple-antibody therapy to mers) initiated phase 1 study in healthy volunteers complete phase 1 study in healthy volunteers regn3767 (lag-3 antibody) opened monotherapy expansion cohorts as well as in combination with libtayo in multiple indications pozelimab (regn3918; c5 antibody) completed phase 1 study in healthy volunteers initiate phase 2 study in pnh regn4461 (lepr agonist antibody) initiated phase 1 study in healthy volunteers initiate phase 2 study in generalized lipodystrophy regn4018 (muc16 and cd3 antibody) initiated phase 1 study in platinum-resistant ovarian cancer regn4659 (ctla4 antibody) initiated phase 1 study in advanced nsclc regn5069 (gfr 3 antibody) initiated phase 1 study in healthy volunteers complete phase 1 study in healthy volunteers initiate phase 2 study in osteoarthritis regn5458 (bcma and cd3 antibody) initiated phase 1 study in multiple myeloma 9 table of contents additional information on 2018 developments for products and product candidates eylea (aflibercept) - ophthalmologic diseases in march 2018, we announced that the phase 3 panorama trial evaluating eylea in npdr met its 24-week primary endpoint. panorama is an ongoing, pivotal, double-masked, randomized two-year trial that enrolled 402 patients and is designed to investigate eylea for the improvement of moderately severe and severe npdr without dme, compared to sham injection. in october 2018, we announced that the phase 3 panorama trial met its one-year (52-week) primary endpoint and key secondary endpoints. the company submitted a supplemental biologics license application (sbla) for the treatment of diabetic retinopathy during 2018. diabetic retinopathy is a complication of diabetes mellitus characterized by microvascular damage to the blood vessels in the retina. it can progress to proliferative diabetic retinopathy (pdr), where new, abnormal vessels that are susceptible to hemorrhage grow initially from the retina and/or optic disc and extend beyond the internal limiting membrane. pdr can subsequently lead to various vision-threatening complications such as vitreous hemorrhage, traction macular detachment, and neovascular glaucoma (nvg). patients are often observed until disease progresses sufficiently to warrant intraocular surgery (vitrectomy) or, more commonly, extensive laser treatment (panretinal photocoagulation (prp)). prp is utilized with the intent of preserving function of the central retina, but is inherently destructive to the peripheral retina and may result in loss of peripheral vision. in october 2018, we also announced that the fda issued a crl regarding the chemistry, manufacturing, and controls (cmc) pas for the eylea pre-filled syringe. the crl requested additional information regarding manufacturing and supply processes and the completion of a usability study evaluating a single injection of the eylea pre-filled syringe in approximately 30 patients. we are compiling all the requested information and plan to resubmit the pas in the first half of 2019. dupixent (dupilumab) for allergic and inflammatory conditions in may 2018, we and sanofi announced that a pivotal phase 3 trial evaluating dupixent to treat moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis in adolescents (ages 12 17) met its primary and key secondary endpoints. in the trial, treatment with dupixent as monotherapy significantly improved measures of overall disease severity, skin clearing, itching and certain health-related quality of life measures. patients treated with dupixent had significant improvement in disease severity at 16 weeks. the primary endpoints were the proportion of patients achieving investigator's global assessment (iga) score of 0 (clear) or 1 (almost clear) and 75% improvement in eczema area and severity index (easi-75, co-primary endpoint outside of the u.s.) at 16 weeks. in the trial, the safety profile of dupixent was consistent with that seen in adults in previous trials with atopic dermatitis. an sbla and an maa for an expanded atopic dermatitis indication in adolescent patients (12 17 years of age) have been submitted. in october 2018, we and sanofi announced that both pivotal phase 3 placebo-controlled trials evaluating dupixent in adults with inadequately-controlled chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps met all their primary and secondary endpoints. in these trials, dupixent significantly reduced nasal polyp size, nasal congestion severity, and need for systemic corticosteroids and/or surgery. the rates of adverse events were generally similar across dupixent and placebo, and no new or unexpected side effects related to dupixent were observed. an sbla for crswnp has been submitted. in october 2018, the fda approved dupixent as an add-on maintenance therapy in patients with moderate-to-severe asthma aged 12 years and older with an eosinophilic phenotype or with oral corticosteroid-dependent asthma. dupixent is currently the only biologic approved for both moderate and severe asthma patients with eosinophilic phenotype and the only biologic approved for oral corticosteroid-dependent asthma, regardless of phenotype. praluent (alirocumab) for ldl cholesterol reduction in march 2018, we and sanofi announced that the odyssey outcomes trial met its primary endpoint, demonstrating that high-risk patients who added praluent to maximally-tolerated statins experienced significantly fewer major adverse cardiovascular events compared to those on maximally-tolerated statins alone. for the first time, adding a lipid-lowering therapy to maximally-tolerated statins was associated with reduced death from any cause. a more pronounced effect was observed in patients with baseline ldl-cholesterol (ldl-c) levels at or above 100 mg/dl despite maximally-tolerated statins, who are at high risk of suffering a future event; in this group, praluent reduced risk of major adverse cardiovascular events by 24% and was associated with a 29% reduced death from any cause. in this 18,924-patient, long-term trial, the safety profile of praluent was consistent with previous trials and no new safety issues were observed. based on the positive results from this trial, an sbla and an maa for cardiovascular risk reduction have been submitted. in september 2018, we and sanofi announced that the fda approved an update to the praluent prescribing information to include clinical information regarding its use in patients with hefh who require additional lowering of ldl-c along with diet and maximally-tolerated statin therapy and who are undergoing apheresis treatment. the recommended dose of praluent in patients undergoing ldl apheresis is 150 mg once every two weeks. 10 table of contents in february 2019, the chmp adopted a positive opinion for praluent, recommending a new indication to reduce cardiovascular risk by lowering ldl-c levels in adults with established ascvd. libtayo (cemiplimab) for cancer the pd-1 immune checkpoint pathway has emerged as a major mechanism by which cancers evade immune destruction. several drugs blocking either pd-1 or pd-l1 (one of the two ligands that bind pd-1) have been approved. libtayo is an anti-pd-1 antibody. we are developing libtayo as a foundation for a diverse and comprehensive immuno-oncology portfolio. our initial approval strategy is focused on monotherapy in selected indications. subsequent development activities are expected to include combinations with other anti-cancer agents. libtayo is also being studied by other companies in combination with their proprietary assets. as it relates to the phase 3 program in non-small cell lung cancer, we have recently announced that we are focusing efforts in first-line treatment on combination therapy of cemiplimab with chemotherapy. on september 28, 2018, the fda approved libtayo for the treatment of patients with metastatic or locally advanced cscc who are not candidates for curative surgery or curative radiation. libtayo is the first and currently only treatment specifically approved and available for advanced cscc in the united states. in august 2018, we and sanofi entered into a license agreement with bristol-myers squibb company, e. r. squibb &amp; sons, l.l.c., and ono pharmaceutical co., ltd. to obtain a license under certain patents owned and/or exclusively licensed by one or more of these parties that includes the right to develop and sell libtayo. under the agreement, we and sanofi made an up-front payment of $20.0 million and are obligated to pay royalties of 8.0% on worldwide sales of libtayo through december 31, 2023, and royalties of 2.5% from january 1, 2024 through december 31, 2026. the up-front payment was shared, and the royalties are shared, equally by us and sanofi. fasinumab for pain due to osteoarthritis pain is among the most common reasons people see the doctor and why analgesics, including opioids, are among the most commonly prescribed drugs. pain is a major cause of work disability and impaired quality of life. targeting ngf is a potential new way to manage pain without resorting to opiods. ngf expression is elevated in many acute and chronic painful conditions and ngf blockade has demonstrated efficacy in clinical trials. fasinumab is an antibody to ngf. the fasinumab clinical development program is expected to comprise up to approximately 10,000 patients treated with fasinumab. we have several ongoing phase 3 clinical studies of fasinumab in patients with pain due to osteoarthritis of the knee or hip. in april 2018, an independent dmc monitoring the ongoing safety and efficacy of the fasinumab clinical trials recommended that the higher dose-regimens be discontinued based on the risk benefit assessment and that the program may continue with the lower dose-regimens of fasinumab. the ongoing osteoarthritis trials have been modified accordingly. since the phase 3 clinical study in chronic low back pain in patients with concomitant osteoarthritis was using only higher doses, we discontinued dosing patients in this study. in august 2018, we and teva announced positive top-line results from our phase 3 study of fasinumab in patients with chronic pain from osteoarthritis of the knee or hip. at the week 16 primary efficacy analysis, the study met both co-primary endpoints and all key secondary endpoints. fasinumab-treated patients experienced significantly less pain and significantly improved functional ability from baseline compared to placebo. interim safety data indicate that fasinumab was generally well tolerated, with similar adverse events as those observed in previous fasinumab trials. after the primary efficacy assessment at week 16, patients continue on therapy for an additional 36 weeks, followed by a subsequent 20-week off study drug follow-up period for further safety assessment. other programs our preclinical research programs include the areas of oncology and immuno-oncology, angiogenesis, ophthalmology, metabolic and related diseases, muscle diseases and disorders, inflammation and immune diseases, bone and cartilage, pain and neurobiology, cardiovascular diseases, and infectious diseases. in 2017, we and barda entered into an agreement to discover, research, develop, and manufacture a portfolio of antibodies targeting up to 10 pathogens, starting with influenza virus, that pose significant risk to public health. the emerging pathogens treatment portfolio will be pursued using an other transaction agreement (ota), which provides a funding and collaboration vehicle for hhs to promote innovation in technology for advanced research and development. under the ota, which has a term of 10 years, hhs will fund 80% of our costs for research, development, and manufacturing activities for antibodies that are selected to move forward. 11 table of contents research and development technologies many proteins that play an important role in biology and disease are secreted by cells or located on the cell surface. moreover, cells communicate through secreted factors and surface molecules. our scientists have developed two different technologies to make protein therapeutics that potently and specifically block, activate, or inhibit the action of specific cell surface or secreted molecules. the first technology fuses receptor components to the constant region of an antibody molecule to make a class of drugs we call "traps". eylea, zaltrap, and arcalyst are drugs generated using our trap technology. velocisuite is our second technology platform. it is used for discovering, developing, and producing fully human antibodies that can address both secreted and cell-surface targets. velocisuite. velocisuite consists of velocimmune , velocigene , velocimouse , velocimab , veloci-bi tm , and other related technologies. the velocimmune mouse platform is utilized to produce fully human antibodies. velocimmune was generated by exploiting our velocigene technology (see below), in a process in which six megabases of mouse immune gene loci were replaced, or "humanized," with corresponding human immune gene loci. velocimmune mice can be used efficiently to generate fully human antibodies to targets of therapeutic interest. velocimmune and our entire velocisuite offer the potential to increase the speed and efficiency through which human antibody therapeutics may be discovered and validated, thereby improving the overall efficiency of our early stage drug development activities. we are utilizing the velocimmune technology to produce our next generation of drug candidates for preclinical and clinical development. our velocigene platform allows custom and precise manipulation of very large sequences of dna to produce highly customized alterations of a specified target gene, or genes, and accelerates the production of knock-out and transgenic expression models without using either positive/negative selection or isogenic dna. in producing knock-out models, a color or fluorescent marker may be substituted in place of the actual gene sequence, allowing for high-resolution visualization of precisely where the gene is active in the body during normal body functioning as well as in disease processes. for the optimization of preclinical development and pharmacology programs, velocigene offers the opportunity to humanize targets by replacing the mouse gene with the human homolog. thus, velocigene allows scientists to rapidly identify the physical and biological effects of deleting or over-expressing the target gene, as well as to characterize and test potential therapeutic molecules. our velocimouse technology platform allows for the direct and immediate generation of genetically altered mice from embryonic stem cells (es cells), thereby avoiding the lengthy process involved in generating and breeding knockout mice from chimeras. mice generated through this method are normal and healthy and exhibit a 100% germ-line transmission. furthermore, mice developed using our velocimouse technology are suitable for direct phenotyping or other studies. we have also developed our velocimab platform for the rapid screening of antibodies and rapid generation of expression cell lines for our traps and our velocimmune human antibodies. we have utilized our velocisuite technologies to develop a class of potential drug candidates, known as bi-specific antibodies. veloci-bi allows for the generation of full-length bi-specific antibodies similar to native antibodies that are amenable to production by standard antibody manufacturing techniques, and are likely to have favorable antibody-like pharmacokinetic properties. in the area of immunotherapies in oncology, we are exploring the use of bi-specific antibodies that target tumor antigens and the cd3 receptor on t-cells to harness the oncolytic properties of t-cells. our first such bi-specific antibody, regn1979, targets cd20 and cd3. we are exploring additional indications and applications for our bi-specific technologies, such as bi-specific antibodies to mucin 16 (muc16) and b-cell maturation antigen (bcma), as well as a new class of co-stimulatory bi-specifics, the first two of which are expected to enter clinical development in 2019. regeneron genetics center . regeneron genetics center (rgc), a wholly owned subsidiary of regeneron pharmaceuticals, inc., leverages de-identified clinical, genomic, and molecular data from human volunteers to identify medically relevant associations in a blinded fashion designed to preserve patients' privacy. the objective of rgc is to expand the use of human genetics for discovering and validating genetic factors that cause or influence a range of diseases where there are major unmet medical needs, with the prospect of improving the drug discovery and development process. rgc is undertaking multiple approaches, including large population-based efforts as well as family- and founder-based approaches. rgc utilizes laboratory automation and innovative approaches to cloud computing to achieve high-quality throughput. central to the work of rgc is a collaboration with the geisinger health system of pennsylvania. geisinger collects samples from consented patient volunteers, while rgc performs sequencing and genotyping to generate de-identified genomic data. in addition, rgc has expanded on its foundational population-based collaboration with geisinger with a growing number of other organizations worldwide. in addition, rgc has formed a consortium to fund the generation of genetic exome sequence data from 500,000 volunteer participants who make up the uk biobank health resource. the current members of the consortium consist of abbvie inc., alnylam pharmaceuticals inc., astrazeneca plc, biogen inc., pfizer inc., millennium pharmaceuticals, inc. (a subsidiary of takeda pharmaceutical company unlimited), and bristol-myers squibb. the consortium members have each committed up to $10.0 12 table of contents million in funding for regeneron to sequence the uk biobank's samples, which will be performed at the rgc facility. consortium members will have a limited period of exclusive access to the sequencing data before the data will be made available to other health researchers by uk biobank. researchers from the rgc discovered a potential new therapeutic target to reduce the risk of chronic liver disease and progression to more advanced stages of disease, such as nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (nash), by analyzing extensive genetic sequencing data linked with electronic health records. in march 2018, we announced a publication describing this discovery in the new england journal of medicine , which identified for the first time a variant in the hsd17b13 gene that is associated with reduced risk of, or protection from, various chronic liver diseases for which there are currently no approved therapeutics. we are collaborating with alnylam to discover rna interference (rnai) therapeutics for nash and potentially other related diseases. collaboration agreements collaborations with sanofi antibodies . we are collaborating with sanofi on the global development and commercialization of various antibodies and antibody product candidates (dupixent, praluent, kevzara, and regn3500) (the antibody collaboration). under the terms of the antibody license and collaboration agreement (lca), following receipt of the first positive phase 3 trial results for a co-developed drug candidate, subsequent phase 3 trial-related costs for that drug candidate are shared 80% by sanofi and 20% by us. all other agreed-upon development costs incurred by both companies are funded 100% by sanofi. we are generally responsible for reimbursing sanofi for half of the total development costs for all collaboration antibody products from our share of profits from commercialization of collaboration products to the extent they are sufficient for this purpose. effective january 7, 2018, we and sanofi entered into a letter agreement (letter agreement) amending the lca in connection with, among other matters, the allocation of additional funds to certain proposed activities relating to dupilumab and regn3500 (collectively, the dupilumab/regn3500 eligible investments). pursuant to the letter agreement, we have agreed to allow sanofi to satisfy in whole or in part its funding obligations with respect to the dupilumab/regn3500 eligible investments for the quarterly periods commencing on january 1, 2018 and ending on september 30, 2020 by selling up to an aggregate of 600,000 shares (of which 589,234 currently remains available) of our common stock directly or indirectly owned by sanofi. refer to the "immuno-oncology" section below for further details regarding the letter agreement. under our collaboration agreement, sanofi records product sales for commercialized products, and regeneron has the right to co-promote such products on a country-by-country basis. we have exercised our option to co-promote dupixent, praluent, and kevzara in the united states. we have thus far not exercised any of our options to co-promote these antibodies outside the united states. we supply certain commercial bulk product to sanofi. we and sanofi equally share profits and losses from sales within the united states. we and sanofi share profits outside the united states on a sliding scale based on sales starting at 65% (sanofi)/35% (us) and ending at 55% (sanofi)/45% (us), and share losses outside the united states at 55% (sanofi)/45% (us). in addition to profit and loss sharing, we are entitled to receive up to $250.0 million in sales milestone payments, with milestone payments commencing after aggregate annual sales of antibodies (subject to this agreement) outside the united states exceed $1.0 billion on a rolling twelve-month basis. immuno-oncology. in july 2015, we and sanofi entered into a collaboration to discover, develop, and commercialize antibody-based cancer treatments in the field of immuno-oncology (the io collaboration). the io collaboration is governed by an amended and restated immuno-oncology discovery and development agreement (amended io discovery agreement), and an immuno-oncology license and collaboration agreement (io license and collaboration agreement). in connection with the execution of the original immuno-oncology discovery and development agreement in 2015 (2015 io discovery agreement), which has been replaced by the amended io discovery agreement (as discussed below), sanofi made a $265.0 million non-refundable up-front payment to us. pursuant to the 2015 io discovery agreement, we were to spend up to $1,090.0 million (io discovery budget) to identify and validate potential immuno-oncology targets and develop therapeutic antibodies against such targets through clinical proof-of-concept, and sanofi was to reimburse us for up to $825.0 million (io discovery funding) of these costs, subject to certain annual limits. the original term of the 2015 io discovery agreement was to continue through the later of five years from the effective date of the io collaboration or the date the io discovery budget was exhausted, subject to sanofi's option to extend it for up to an additional three years for the continued development (and funding) of selected ongoing programs. effective december 31, 2018, the company and sanofi entered into the amended io discovery agreement, which narrowed the scope of the existing discovery and development activities conducted by the company (io development activities) under the 2015 io discovery agreement to developing therapeutic bi-specific antibodies targeting (i) bcma and cd3 (the bcmaxcd3 program) and (ii) muc16 and cd3 (the muc16xcd3 program) through clinical proof of concept. the amended io discovery agreement provided for sanofi's payment of $461.9 million to the company as consideration for (x) the termination of the 2015 io discovery agreement, (y) the prepayment for certain io development activities regarding the bcmaxcd3 program and the 13 table of contents muc16xcd3 program, and (z) the reimbursement of costs incurred by the company under the 2015 io discovery agreement during the fourth quarter of 2018. under the terms of the amended io discovery agreement, the company is required to conduct development activities with respect to (i) the bcmaxcd3 program through the earlier of clinical proof-of-concept or the expenditure of $70.0 million (the bcmaxcd3 program costs cap) and (ii) the muc16xcd3 program through the earlier of clinical proof of concept or the expenditure of $50.0 million (the muc16xcd3 program costs cap); provided that under certain circumstances, sanofi will have the option to increase the muc16xcd3 program costs cap to $70.0 million by making a payment to the company in the amount of $20.0 million. pursuant to the amended io discovery agreement, we are primarily responsible for conducting the io development activities , other than certain clinical trials that may be funded separately by sanofi, including antibody development, preclinical activities, toxicology studies, manufacture of clinical supplies, filing of investigational new drug applications (inds), and clinical development through proof-of-concept. we are obligated to reimburse sanofi for half of the development costs they funded that are attributable to clinical development of antibody product candidates under the io discovery agreement from our share of future profits, if any, from commercialized io collaboration products to the extent they are sufficient for this purpose. as the scope of the io development activities has been limited, the exclusivity obligations of the parties under the amended io discovery agreement have been narrowed. with regard to the bcmaxcd3 program and the muc16xcd3 program, when clinical proof-of-concept is established, the applicable program costs cap is reached, or in certain other limited circumstances, sanofi will have the option to license rights to the product candidate and other antibodies targeting the same targets for, with regard to bcmaxcd3, immuno-oncology indications, and with regard to muc16xcd3, all indications, pursuant to the io license and collaboration agreement, as amended. if sanofi does not exercise its option to license rights to a product candidate, the company will retain the exclusive right to develop and commercialize such product candidate and sanofi will receive a royalty on sales. pursuant to the amended io discovery agreement, the parties agreed that (i) if sanofi exercises its option with respect to a bcmaxcd3 program antibody, sanofi will lead the development and commercialization of such bcmaxcd3 program antibody; and (ii) if sanofi exercises its option with respect to a muc16xcd3 program antibody, (x) the company will lead the development of such muc16xcd3 program antibody and commercialization of such muc16xcd3 program antibody within the united states and (y) sanofi will lead the commercialization of such muc16xcd3 program antibody outside of the united states. the amended io discovery agreement provides that regeneron retains exclusive rights to all other immuno-oncology programs that were part of the 2015 io discovery agreement, provided that sanofi will receive a royalty on global sales of two product candidates currently in clinical development, regn3767 and regn4659. the amended io discovery agreement will terminate as of the earlier of (a) sanofi having elected to exercise or not exercise its options with respect to the bcmaxcd3 program and the muc16xcd3 program in accordance with the terms of the amended io discovery agreement and (b) december 31, 2022. in connection with the io license and collaboration agreement, sanofi made a $375.0 million non-refundable up-front payment to us. if sanofi exercises its option to license rights to a bcmaxcd3 program antibody or muc16xcd3 program antibody thereunder, it will co-develop these drug candidates with us through product approval under the terms of the io license and collaboration agreement. sanofi will fund development costs up front for a bcmaxcd3 program antibody and we will reimburse half of the total development costs for such antibody from our share of future io collaboration profits to the extent they are sufficient for this purpose. in addition, we and sanofi will share equally, on an ongoing basis, the development costs for a muc16xcd3 program antibody. each party will have the right to co-promote licensed products in countries where it is not the lead commercialization party. the parties will share equally in profits and losses in connection with the commercialization of collaboration products. we are obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to supply clinical requirements of each drug candidate under the io license and collaboration agreement until commercial supplies of that io drug candidate are being manufactured. under the terms of the io license and collaboration agreement, the parties are also co-developing libtayo (cemiplimab), an antibody targeting pd-1. we have principal control over the development of libtayo, and the parties share equally, on an ongoing basis, development expenses for libtayo. pursuant to the january 7, 2018 letter agreement with sanofi, we and sanofi agreed to increase the libtayo development budget to a total of $1.640 billion as of the effective date of the letter agreement, $990.0 million over the budget originally set forth in the io license and collaboration agreement (with further changes to the libtayo development budget possible by agreement of the parties). under the letter agreement, we have also agreed to allow sanofi to satisfy in whole or in part its funding obligation with respect to libtayo development costs for the quarterly periods commencing on october 1, 2017 and ending on september 30, 2020 by selling up to an aggregate of 800,000 shares (of which 584,613 currently remains available) of our common stock directly or indirectly owned by sanofi. if sanofi desires to sell shares of our common stock during the term of the letter agreement to satisfy a portion or all of its funding obligations for the libtayo development and/or, as noted above, dupilumab/regn3500 eligible investments, we may 14 table of contents elect to purchase, in whole or in part, such shares from sanofi. if we do not elect to purchase such shares, sanofi may sell the applicable number of shares (subject to certain daily and quarterly limits) in one or more open-market transactions. with regard to libtayo, we lead commercialization activities in the united states, while sanofi will lead commercialization activities outside of the united states and the parties will equally share profits from worldwide sales. sanofi has exercised its option to co-promote libtayo in the united states. we will be entitled to a milestone payment of $375.0 million in the event that global sales of certain licensed products targeting pd-1 (including libtayo), together with sales of any other products licensed under the io license and collaboration agreement and sold for use in combination with any of such licensed products targeting pd-1, equal or exceed $2.0 billion in any consecutive twelve-month period. collaborations with bayer eylea outside the united states . since october 2006, we and bayer have been parties to a license and collaboration agreement for the global development and commercialization outside the united states of eylea. under the agreement, we and bayer collaborate on, and share the costs of, the development of eylea. bayer markets eylea outside the united states, where, for countries other than japan, the companies share equally in profits and losses from sales of eylea. in japan, we are entitled to receive a tiered percentage of between 33.5% and 40.0% of eylea net sales. commencing with the first commercial sale of eylea in a major market country outside the united states, we became obligated to reimburse bayer for 50% of the development costs that it has incurred under the agreement from our share of the collaboration profits (including payments to us based on sales in japan). the reimbursement payment in any quarter will equal 5% of the then outstanding repayment obligation, but never more than our share of the collaboration profits in the quarter unless we elect to reimburse bayer at a faster rate. as a result, a portion of our share of eylea profits outside the united states will be used to reimburse bayer for this repayment obligation. within the united states, we retain exclusive commercialization rights to eylea and are entitled to all profits from any such sales. collaboration with mitsubishi tanabe pharma fasinumab. in september 2015, we entered into a collaboration agreement with mitsubishi tanabe pharma corporation (mtpc) providing mtpc with development and commercial rights to fasinumab in japan, south korea, taiwan, indonesia, thailand, the philippines, malaysia, singapore, vietnam, myanmar, and sri lanka (the mtpc territories). in connection with the agreement, mtpc made a $10.0 million non-refundable up-front payment in 2015. as of december 31, 2018, we had earned an aggregate of $135.0 million in development milestones and other contingent payments from mtpc, and are entitled to receive up to an aggregate of $80.0 million in additional contingent payments. under the agreement, we are obligated to manufacture and supply mtpc with clinical and commercial supplies of fasinumab. if fasinumab is commercialized in the mtpc territories, we will supply the product to mtpc at a tiered purchase price, which ranges from 30% to 50% of net sales of the product (subject to adjustment in certain circumstances), and are eligible for additional payments up to an aggregate of $100.0 million upon the achievement of specified annual net sales amounts starting at $200.0 million. collaboration with teva fasinumab . in september 2016, we entered into a collaboration agreement with teva to develop and commercialize fasinumab globally, except in the mtpc territories (as described above). in connection with the agreement, teva made a $250.0 million non-refundable up-front payment in 2016. we lead global development activities, and the parties will share equally, on an ongoing basis, development costs under a global development plan. as of december 31, 2018, we had earned an aggregate of $120.0 million of development milestones from teva, and we are entitled to receive up to an aggregate of $340.0 million in additional development milestones and up to an aggregate of $1,890.0 million in contingent payments upon achievement of specified annual net sales amounts. we are responsible for the manufacture and supply of fasinumab globally. within the united states, we will lead commercialization activities, and the parties will share equally in any profits or losses in connection with commercialization of fasinumab. in the territory outside of the united states, teva will lead commercialization activities and we will supply product to teva at a tiered purchase price, which is calculated as a percentage of net sales of the product (subject to adjustment in certain circumstances). collaboration with bluebird in august 2018, we entered into a collaboration agreement with bluebird bio, inc. to research, develop, and commercialize novel immune cell therapies for cancer. under the terms of the agreement, the parties have jointly selected six initial targets and will equally share the costs of research and development, which will be led by bluebird, up to ind acceptance. additional targets 15 table of contents may be selected over the five-year research collaboration term. with respect to certain targets, upon the acceptance of an ind, we will have the option to co-develop and co-commercialize product candidates directed to such target; if we exercise this option, the parties will share equally in the costs of development and commercialization, and will share in any profits or losses therefrom. if we do not exercise our option or we do not have an option to a target, we are entitled to receive milestone payments and royalties on any future sales of products developed and commercialized by bluebird under the terms of the agreement. in connection with the execution of the collaboration agreement, we also agreed to purchase 420,000 shares of bluebird common stock for $100.0 million. the purchase was completed in the third quarter of 2018. as part of the agreement, $37.0 million, the amount paid in excess of the fair market value of the shares purchased based upon bluebird's closing price on august 3, 2018 of $150.00 per share, will be credited against our funding obligation for collaboration research. manufacturing we currently manufacture bulk drug materials at our manufacturing facilities in rensselaer, new york and limerick, ireland. the rensselaer facility consists of approximately 565,000 square feet of owned research, manufacturing, office, and warehouse space. we currently have approximately 100,000 liters of cell culture capacity at our rensselaer facility, and are approved by the fda and other regulatory agencies to manufacture our marketed products. we also own an approximately 445,000 square foot facility in limerick, ireland, which we acquired and subsequently renovated to accommodate and support our growth and expand our manufacturing capacity. the facility has received certain manufacturing approvals by regulatory agencies, including the fda, and is in the process of further validation, as required by regulatory authorities, for the manufacture of our bulk drug products. certain bulk drug materials are also manufactured by our collaborators, and certain raw materials or products necessary for the manufacture and formulation of our products and product candidates are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. in addition, we rely on our collaborators or third parties to perform packaging, filling, finishing, labeling, distribution, laboratory testing, and other services related to the manufacture of our products and product candidates, and to supply various raw materials and other products. see part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to manufacturing and supply" for further information. among the conditions for regulatory marketing approval of a medicine is the requirement that the prospective manufacturer's quality control and manufacturing procedures conform to the good manufacturing practice (gmp) regulations of the health authority. in complying with standards set forth in these regulations, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money, and effort in the areas of production and quality control to ensure full technical compliance. manufacturing establishments, both foreign and domestic, are also subject to inspections by or under the authority of the fda and by other national, federal, state, and local agencies. sales and marketing we have a new products marketing and planning group, a market research group, and a market access group to evaluate commercial opportunities for our targets and drug candidates, assess the competitive environment, and analyze the commercial potential of our product portfolio, and prepare for market launch of new products. these groups are fully functional to support our product and product candidates that we are independently developing and/or commercializing, and also work closely with our collaborators for co-developed products to develop marketing plans and forecasts and to develop and execute pre-launch market development programs. we also have a full-service commercialization group to handle various aspects of our commercial programs. the group includes experienced professionals in the fields of marketing, communications, professional education, patient education and advocacy, reimbursement and market access, trade and distribution, commercial operations, commercial analytics, market research, and forecasting. moreover, for our marketed products, we have hired, trained, and deployed a field-based organization including regional directors, medical specialists, and reimbursement managers, each typically with a number of years of experience in the biopharmaceutical industry in a variety of therapeutic areas including oncology, ophthalmology, immunology, and inflammation. we have approximately 700 field-based employees in the united states. 16 table of contents customers we sell eylea and libtayo in the united states to several distributors and specialty pharmacies. we sell arcalyst in the united states to two specialty pharmacies. under these distribution models, the distributors and specialty pharmacies generally take physical delivery of product. for eylea and libtayo, the distributors and specialty pharmacies generally sell the product directly to healthcare providers, whereas for arcalyst, the specialty pharmacies sell the product directly to patients. we had sales to two customers (besse medical, a subsidiary of amerisourcebergen corporation, and mckesson corporation) that each accounted for more than 10% of total gross product revenue for the year ended december 31, 2018. on a combined basis, our product sales to these customers accounted for approximately 92% of our gross product revenue for the year ended december 31, 2018. we are also a party to collaboration agreements with bayer and sanofi, whereby our collaborator is responsible for recording product sales of eylea outside the united states and global sales of dupixent, praluent, and kevzara, respectively. competition we face substantial competition from pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and chemical companies. many of our competitors have substantially greater research, preclinical, and clinical product development, manufacturing capabilities, and financial, marketing, and human resources than we do. competition from smaller competitors may also be or become more significant if those competitors acquire or discover patentable inventions, form collaborative arrangements, or merge with large pharmaceutical companies. even if we are able to commercialize additional product candidates, one or more of our competitors may have brought a competitive product to market earlier than us or may have patent protection that dominates or adversely affects our activities or products. our ability to compete depends, to a great extent, on how fast we can develop safe and effective product candidates, complete clinical testing and approval processes, and supply commercial quantities of the product to the market. competition among product candidates approved for sale is based on efficacy, safety, reliability, availability, price, patent position, and other factors. the tables below provide an overview of the competitive landscape for our key marketed products in their currently approved indications, focusing primarily on competing approved products and product candidates that have advanced beyond phase 1 clinical development. the tables below are not exhaustive. for additional information regarding the substantial competition these marketed products face, see also part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to commercialization of our marketed products, product candidates, and new indications for our marketed products - the commercial success of our products and product candidates is subject to strong competition. " eylea competitor product/product candidate commercial or development status competitor indication territory lucentis (ranibizumab) approved novartis ag and genentech/roche wet amd, dme, macular edema following rvo (including crvo and brvo), diabetic retinopathy in patients with dme, and mcnv worldwide avastin (bevacizumab) (off-label) used to treat wet amd, dme, and macular edema following rvo genentech/roche wet amd, dme, and macular edema following rvo worldwide ozurdex (dexamethasone intravitreal implant) approved allergan, plc dme, rvo worldwide iluvien (fluocinolone acetonide intravitreal implant) approved alimera sciences, inc. dme united states, eu conbercept approved in china for wet amd in development in the united states and the eu (two non-inferiority phase 3 trials comparing dosing regimens of conbercept to eylea initiated in 2018) chengdu kanghong pharmaceutical group co., ltd. wet amd china 17 table of contents eylea (continued) competitor product/product candidate commercial or development status competitor indication territory brolucizumab (rth258), a single chain antibody fragment directed against vegf-a in development (two non-inferiority phase 3 trials comparing rth258 and eylea met their primary endpoint in june 2017) novartis wet amd and related conditions abicipar pegol (anti-vegf-a-darpin ) in development (two non-inferiority phase 3 trials comparing dosing regimens of abicipar pegol and lucentis reported to have met their primary endpoints in july 2018) allergan wet amd and related conditions faricimab (rg7716), a bi-specific antibody targeting anti-vegf and ang2 in development (two non-inferiority phase 3 trials comparing dosing regimens of faricimab and eylea in dme reported to have been initiated in september 2018) genentech/roche wet amd, dme ranibizumab port delivery system in development (non-inferiority phase 3 trial comparing ranibizumab administered via the port delivery system and monthly intravitreal injections of lucentis in wet amd reported to have been initiated in september 2018) genentech/roche wet amd and related conditions de-122, an anti-endoglin antibody in development for use in combination with eylea or lucentis in development (phase 2) santen pharmaceuticals co. ltd./ tracon pharmaceuticals, inc. wet amd and related conditions gb-102, an intravitreally administered depot formulation of the small molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitor, sunitinib in development (phase 2) graybug vision, inc. wet amd and related conditions opt-302, a vegfr-3 large molecule trap in development for use in combination with eylea or lucentis in development (phase 2b) opthea limited wet amd and related conditions pan-90806, a topically administered tyrosine kinase inhibitor in development (phase 1/2) panoptica, inc. wet amd ksi-301, an anti-vegf biologic therapy that is conjugated to a phosphorylcholine-based biopolymer to extend its half-life in development (phase 1b) kodiak sciences inc. wet amd, dme, and rvo rgx-314, a gene therapy in development (phase 1) regenxbio inc. wet amd 18 table of contents eylea (continued) competitor product/product candidate commercial or development status competitor indication territory m710, a biosimilar to eylea in development (phase 3) momenta pharmaceuticals, inc. (in partnership with mylan n.v.) wet amd and related conditions pf582, a biosimilar to lucentis in development (phase 1/2 completed in august 2016) pfenex inc. wet amd and related conditions fyb201, a biosimilar to lucentis in development (phase 3 trial of fyb201 and lucentis completed in december 2018) formycon ag (in collaboration with bioeq gmbh) wet amd and related conditions sb11, a biosimilar to lucentis in development (phase 3) samsung bioepis co., ltd. wet amd and related conditions razumab, a biosimilar to lucentis approved in india for wet amd and related conditions intas phamaceuticals limited wet amd and related conditions india dupixent competitor product/product candidate commercial or development status competitor indication territory eucrisa (crisaborole) approved pfizer mild-to-moderate atopic dermatitis united states xolair (omalizumab) approved roche/novartis asthma worldwide nucala (mepolizumab) approved glaxosmithkline (gsk) asthma worldwide cinqair (reslizumab) approved teva asthma worldwide fasenra (benralizumab) approved astrazeneca asthma united states, eu tralokinumab, an anti-il-13 antibody in development (phase 3) astrazeneca/ leo pharma inc. atopic dermatitis baricitinib, an orally administered jak inhibitor in development (recently reported to have met the primary endpoints of two atopic dermatitis phase 3 studies) eli lilly and company/incyte corporation atopic dermatitis abrocitinib (pf-04965842), an orally administered jak inhibitor in development (phase 3) pfizer atopic dermatitis upadacitinib, an orally administered jak inhibitor in development (phase 3) abbvie atopic dermatitis fevipiprant, an orally administered crth2 antagonist in development (phase 3) novartis asthma tezepelumab, an anti-tslp antibody in development (phase 3 for asthma and phase 2 for atopic dermatitis) amgen inc./astrazeneca asthma and atopic dermatitis etiokimab (anb-020), an anti-il-33 antibody in development (phase 2) anaptysbio, inc. asthma and atopic dermatitis 19 table of contents dupixent (continued) competitor product/product candidate commercial or development status competitor indication territory lebrikizumab, an anti-il-13 antibody in development (phase 2b) dermira, inc./roche atopic dermatitis nemolizumab, an anti-il-31r antibody in development (phase 2b reported to have been completed; phase 3 initiation expected in 2019) galderma s.a. atopic dermatitis gsk3772847, an anti-st2 antibody in development (phase 2 for asthma and phase 1 for atopic dermatitis) gsk asthma and atopic dermatitis rg6149, an anti-st2 antibody in development (phase 2) roche asthma and atopic dermatitis csj117, an inhaled antibody fragment against thymic stromal lymphopoietin in development (phase 1) novartis asthma gbr-830, an anti-ox40 antibody in development (phase 2b) glenmark pharmaceuticals ltd. atopic dermatitis khk4083, an anti-ox40 antibody in development (phase 2) kyowa hakko kirin co., ltd. atopic dermatitis asn002, an orally administered dual jak/syk inhibitor in development (phase 2b) asana biosciences, llc atopic dermatitis zpl389, an orally administered histamine h4 receptor agonist in development (phase 2) novartis atopic dermatitis bermekimab, an anti-il-1alpha antibody in development (phase 2 completed) xbiotech inc. atopic dermatitis mor-106, an anti-il-17c antibody in development (phase 2) novartis/ morphosys, ag atopic dermatitis kpl-716, an antibody against the oncostatin m receptor beta in development (phase 1 reported to have been completed) kiniksa pharmaceuticals, ltd. atopic dermatitis prs-060, an inhaled anticalin targeting il-4r in development (phase 1) astrazeneca/ pieris pharmaceuticals, inc. asthma aslan004, an antibody against the il-13r alpha-1 subunit in development (phase 1) aslan pharmaceuticals atopic dermatitis 20 table of contents praluent competitor product/product candidate commercial or development status competitor indication territory repatha (evolocumab) approved amgen (1) reduce the risk of myocardial infarction, stroke, and coronary revascularization in adults with established cardiovascular disease, (2) primary hyperlipidemia, and (3) hofh worldwide inclisiran (aln-pcssc) in development (phase 3) alnylam pharmaceuticals (in collaboration with the medicines company) rnai molecule against pcsk9 (injectable, small molecule) etc-1002 (bempedoic acid) in development (phase 3) esperion therapeutics, inc. acl-inhibitor (oral, small molecule) kevzara competitor product/product candidate commercial or development status competitor indication territory actemra (tocilizumab) approved genentech/roche/ chugai pharmaceutical co., ltd. rheumatoid arthritis worldwide orencia (abatacept) approved bristol-myers squibb rheumatoid arthritis worldwide xeljanz (tofacitinib) approved pfizer rheumatoid arthritis worldwide olumiant (baricitinib) approved eli lilly/incyte rheumatoid arthritis united states, eu olokizumab, an anti-il-6 antibody in development (phase 3) r-pharm rheumatoid arthritis upadacitinib, an orally administered jak inhibitor in development (submitted for regulatory approval) abbvie rheumatoid arthritis filgotinib, an orally administered jak inhibitor in development (phase 3) gilead sciences, inc./ galapagos nv rheumatoid arthritis peficitinib, an orally administered jak inhibitor in development (phase 3) astellas pharma inc. rheumatoid arthritis bcd-089, an anti-il-6r antibody in development (phase 2) biocad rheumatoid arthritis lusinex, a biosimilar to actemra in development (phase 1 trials reported to have been completed) mycenax biotech inc. rheumatoid arthritis bat1806, a biosimilar to actemra in development (phase 1) bio-thera solutions ltd. rheumatoid arthritis 21 table of contents libtayo competitor product/product candidate commercial or development status competitor indication territory opdivo (nivolumab) approved bristol-myers squibb various cancers worldwide keytruda (pembrolizumab) approved merck &amp; co., inc. various cancers worldwide bavencio (avelumab) approved pfizer/merck various cancers worldwide tecentriq (atezolizumab) approved roche various cancers worldwide imfinzi (durvalumab) approved astrazeneca various cancers worldwide spartalizumab (pdr001), an antibody against pd-1 in development (phase 3) novartis various cancers tislelizumab (bgb-a317), an antibody against pd-1 in development (phase 3) celgene corporation/ beigene ltd. various cancers agen2034, an antibody against pd-1 in development (phase 1/2) agenus inc. various cancers dostarlimab (tsr-042), an antibody against pd-1 in development (phase 2/3) gsk/ anaptysbio various cancers incmga0012, an antibody against pd-1 in development (phase 2) incyte/ macrogenics, inc. various cancers jnj-63723283, an antibody against pd-1 in development (phase 1/2) johnson &amp; johnson various cancers pf-06801591, an antibody against pd-1 in development (phase 1) pfizer various cancers antibodies in development. our clinical candidates in development are all fully human antibodies which were generated using our velocimmune technology. our antibody generation technologies and clinical candidates face competition from many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies using various technologies. numerous other companies are developing therapeutic antibody products. companies have generated therapeutic products that are currently in development or on the market that are derived from recombinant dna that comprise human antibody sequences. the following table provides an overview of the competitive landscape for our antibody programs that are in late-stage clinical development, focusing primarily on product candidates that have advanced beyond phase 1 clinical development: regeneron antibody program competitor competitor product/product candidate commercial or development status target fasinumab (phase 3) target: ngf pfizer/eli lilly tanezumab in development (phase 3) antibody against ngf evinacumab (phase 3) target: angptl3 ionis pharmaceuticals, inc./akcea therapeutics, inc. akcea-angptl3-lrx in development (phase 2) ligand conjugated antisense drug against angptl3 evinacumab arrowhead pharmaceuticals, inc. aro-ang3 in development (phase 1) rnai against angptl3 the table above is not exhaustive and focuses on antibody competitors. we are also aware of several companies developing or marketing small molecules that may compete with our antibody product candidates in various indications, if such product candidates obtain regulatory approval in those indications. for additional information regarding our antibody programs and the substantial competition they face, see part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to commercialization of our marketed products, product candidates, and new indications for our marketed products - the commercial success of our products and product candidates is subject to strong competition ." 22 table of contents other areas. many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are attempting to discover new therapeutics for indications in which we invest substantial time and resources. in these and related areas, intellectual property rights have been sought and certain rights have been granted to competitors and potential competitors of ours, and we may be at a substantial competitive disadvantage in such areas as a result of, among other things, our lack of experience, trained personnel, and expertise. a number of corporate and academic competitors are involved in the discovery and development of novel therapeutics that are the focus of other research or development programs we are now conducting. some of these competitors are currently conducting advanced preclinical and clinical research programs in these areas. these and other competitors may have established substantial intellectual property and other competitive advantages. if any of these or other competitors announces a successful clinical study involving a product that may be competitive with one of our product candidates or the grant of marketing approval by a regulatory agency for a competitive product, such developments may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, cash flows, or future prospects. we also compete with academic institutions, governmental agencies, and other public or private research organizations, which conduct research, seek patent protection, and establish collaborative arrangements for the development and marketing of products that would provide royalties or other consideration for use of their technology. these institutions are becoming more active in seeking patent protection and licensing arrangements to collect royalties or other consideration for use of the technology they have developed. products developed in this manner may compete directly with products we develop. we also compete with others in acquiring technology from these institutions, agencies, and organizations. patents, trademarks, and trade secrets we rely on a combination of intellectual property laws, including patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret, and domain name protection laws, as well as confidentiality and license agreements, to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain patents, maintain trade secret protection, and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties (see part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to intellectual property and market exclusivity - we may be restricted in our development, manufacturing, and/or commercialization activities by patents or other proprietary rights of others, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed such patents or rights "; and note 17 to our consolidated financial statements). our policy is to file patent applications to protect technology, inventions, and improvements that we consider important to our business and operations. we hold an ownership interest in a number of issued patents in the united states and foreign countries with respect to our products and technologies. in addition, we hold an ownership interest in thousands of patent applications in the united states and foreign countries. our patent portfolio includes granted patents and pending patent applications covering our velocisuite technologies, including our velocimmune mouse platform which produces fully human antibodies. our issued patents covering these technologies generally expire between 2020 and 2030. however, we continue to file patent applications directed to improvements to these technology platforms. our patent portfolio also includes issued patents and pending applications relating to commercialized products and our product candidates in clinical development. these patents cover the proteins and dna encoding the proteins, manufacturing patents, method of use patents, and pharmaceutical compositions. the following table describes our u.s. patents and european patents (ep) that we currently consider of primary importance to our marketed products, including the territory, patent number, general subject matter class, and expected expiration dates. the noted expiration dates include any patent term adjustments. certain of these patents may also be entitled to term extensions. we continue to pursue additional patents and patent term extensions in the united states and other jurisdictions covering various aspects of our products that may, if issued, extend exclusivity beyond the expiration of the patents listed in the table below. one or more patents with the same or earlier expiry date may fall under the same "general subject matter class" for certain products and are not separately listed. 23 table of contents product molecule territory patent no. general subject matter class expiration eylea *** aflibercept us 7,070,959 composition of matter june 16, 2023 * us 8,092,803 formulation june 21, 2027 us 9,254,338 methods of treatment may 22, 2032 ep 1183353 composition of matter may 23, 2020 ep 1183353 supplementary protection certificate (may 23, 2025) ** ep 2364691 formulation june 14, 2027 ep 1544299 methods of treatment may 23, 2020 dupixent *** dupilumab us 7,608,693 composition of matter october 2, 2027 us 8,945,559 formulation october 17, 2032 us 8,075,887 methods of treatment april 17, 2028 us 8,337,839 methods of treatment october 2, 2027 us 9,290,574 methods of treatment july 10, 2034 us 9,574,004 methods of treatment december 22, 2033 ep 2356151 composition of matter october 27, 2029 ep 2356151 supplementary protection certificate (september 28, 2032) ** praluent *** alirocumab us 8,062,640 composition of matter december 15, 2029 us 8,795,669 formulation july 27, 2032 us 8,357,371 methods of treatment december 21, 2029 us 9,550,837 methods of treatment december 15, 2029 us 9,724,411 methods of treatment january 15, 2031 ep 2358756 composition of matter december 15, 2029 ep 2358756 supplementary protection certificate (september 25, 2030) ** kevzara sarilumab us 7,582,298 composition of matter january 4, 2028 us 9,173,880 formulation december 6, 2031 us 8,080,248 methods of treatment june 1, 2027 ep 2041177 composition of matter june 1, 2027 ep 2041177 supplementary protection certificate (june 1, 2032) ** ep 2766039 methods of treatment october 10, 2032 libtayo cemiplimab us 9,987,500 composition of matter september 18, 2035 * a patent term extension has been granted by the u.s. patent and trademark office, extending the original patent term (may 23, 2020), insofar as it covers eylea, to june 16, 2023. ** supplementary protection certificates (spcs) are pending and/or have been granted in various european countries, extending the original patent terms in those countries, where granted, to the dates indicated in parentheses. *** see note 17 to our consolidated financial statements for information regarding the patent infringement proceedings relating to eylea, dupixent, and praluent. in addition, in the united states and certain other countries, our competitive position may be enhanced due to the availability of market exclusivity under relevant law (for additional information regarding market exclusivity, see part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to intellectual property and market exclusivity - loss or limitation of patent rights, and new regulatory pathways for biosimilar competition, could reduce the duration of market exclusivity for our products "). the effect of expiration of a patent relating to a particular product also depends upon other factors, such as the nature of the market and the position of the product in it, the growth of the market, the complexities and economics of the process for manufacture of the active ingredient of the product, and the requirements of new drug provisions of the federal food, drug and cosmetic act or similar laws and regulations in other countries. we also are the nonexclusive licensee of a number of additional patents and patent applications. these include a license agreement with bristol-myers squibb, e. r. squibb &amp; sons, l.l.c., and ono pharmaceutical co., ltd. to obtain a license under 24 table of contents certain patents owned and/or exclusively licensed by one or more of these parties that includes the right to develop and sell libtayo. under the agreement, we and sanofi pay royalties of 8.0% on worldwide sales of libtayo through december 31, 2023, and royalties of 2.5% from january 1, 2024 through december 31, 2026. the royalties are shared equally by us and sanofi. patent law relating to the patentability and scope of claims in the biotechnology field is evolving and our patent rights are subject to this additional uncertainty. the degree of patent protection that will be afforded to our products in the united states and other important commercial markets is uncertain and is dependent upon the scope of protection decided upon by the patent offices, courts, and governments in these countries. there is no certainty that our existing patents or others, if obtained, will provide us protection from competition or provide commercial benefit. others may independently develop similar products or processes to those developed by us, duplicate any of our products or processes or, if patents are issued to us, design around any products and processes covered by our patents. we expect to continue, when appropriate, to file product and process applications with respect to our inventions. however, we may not file any such applications or, if filed, the patents may not be issued. patents issued to or licensed by us may be infringed by the products or processes of others. we seek to file and maintain trademarks around the world based on commercial activities in most jurisdictions where we have, or desire to have, a business presence for a particular product or service. trademark protection varies in accordance with local law, and continues in some countries as long as the trademark is used and in other countries as long as the trademark is registered. trademark registrations generally are for fixed but renewable terms. defense and enforcement of our intellectual property rights is expensive and time consuming, even if the outcome is favorable to us. it is possible that patents issued or licensed to us will be successfully challenged, that a court may find that we are infringing validly issued patents of third parties, or that we may have to alter or discontinue the development of our products or pay licensing fees to take into account patent rights of third parties (see part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to intellectual property and market exclusivity - we may be restricted in our development, manufacturing, and/or commercialization activities by patents or other proprietary rights of others, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed such patents or rights "; and note 17 to our consolidated financial statements). government regulation regulation by government authorities in the united states and foreign countries is a significant factor in the research, development, manufacture, and marketing of our products and our product candidates. a summary of the primary areas of government regulation that are relevant to our business is provided below. for a description of material regulatory risks we face, also refer to part i, item 1a. "risk factors." preclinical requirements the activities required before a product candidate may be marketed in the united states begin with preclinical tests. preclinical tests include laboratory evaluations and animal studies to assess the potential safety and efficacy of the product candidate and its formulations. certain preclinical trials must comply with the fda's good laboratory practice requirements (glps) and the u.s. department of agriculture's animal welfare act. the results of these studies must be submitted to the fda as part of an ind, which must be reviewed by the fda before proposed clinical testing can begin. in other countries, the data are reviewed by regulatory authorities as part of clinical trial applications. the fda or other regulatory authorities may ask for additional data in order to begin a clinical study. product approval all of our product candidates will require regulatory approval before they can be commercialized. in particular, human therapeutic products are subject to rigorous preclinical and clinical trials and other pre-market approval requirements by the fda and foreign authorities. the structure and substance of the fda and foreign pharmaceutical regulatory practices may evolve over time. the ultimate outcome and impact of such developments cannot be predicted. typically, clinical testing involves a three-phase process. in phase 1, trials are usually conducted with a small number of healthy volunteers to determine the early safety profile of the product candidate. in phase 2, clinical trials are conducted with subjects afflicted with a specific disease or disorder to provide enough data to evaluate the preliminary safety, tolerability, and efficacy of different potential doses of the product candidate. in phase 3, larger clinical trials are conducted with patients afflicted with the specific disease or disorder in order to provide enough data to understand the efficacy and safety profile of the product candidate, as required by the fda. if concerns arise about the safety of the product candidate, the fda or other regulatory authorities can stop clinical trials by placing them on a "clinical hold" pending receipt of additional data, which can result in a delay or termination of a clinical development program. the results of the preclinical and clinical testing of a biologic product candidate are then submitted to the fda in the form of a biologics license application (bla) for evaluation to determine whether the product 25 table of contents candidate may be approved for commercial sale under the public health service act. under the prescription drug user fee act, we typically must pay fees to the fda for review of any bla, which can exceed $2 million per filing. in responding to a bla, the fda may grant marketing approval, request additional information, or deny the application. before approving a new drug or biologic product, the fda also requires that the facilities at which the product will be manufactured or advanced through the supply chain be in compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cgmp, requirements and regulations governing, among other things, the manufacture, shipment, and storage of the product. the fda also can audit the sponsor of the bla to determine if the clinical studies were conducted in compliance with current good clinical practice, or cgcp, requirements. any approval required by the fda for any of our product candidates may not be obtained on a timely basis, or at all. the designation of a clinical trial as being of a particular phase is not necessarily indicative that such a trial will be sufficient to satisfy the parameters of a particular phase, and a clinical trial may contain elements of more than one phase notwithstanding the designation of the trial as being of a particular phase. the results of preclinical studies or early stage clinical trials may not predict long-term safety or efficacy of our compounds when they are tested or used more broadly in humans. approval of a product candidate by comparable regulatory authorities in foreign countries is generally required prior to commencement of marketing of the product in those countries. the approval procedure varies among countries and may involve different or additional testing, and the time required to obtain such approval may differ from that required for fda approval. approval by a regulatory authority in one jurisdiction does not guarantee approval by comparable regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions. various federal, state, and foreign statutes and regulations also govern or influence the research, manufacture, safety, labeling, storage, record keeping, marketing, transport, and other aspects of developing and commercializing pharmaceutical product candidates. the lengthy process of seeking these approvals and the compliance with applicable statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial resources. any failure by us or our collaborators or licensees to obtain, or any delay in obtaining, regulatory approvals could adversely affect the manufacturing or marketing of our products and our ability to receive product or royalty revenue. for additional information regarding u.s. and foreign regulatory approval processes and requirements, see part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to maintaining approval of our marketed products and the development and obtaining approval of our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products - obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval for drug products is costly, time-consuming, and highly uncertain. " post-approval regulation the fda and comparable regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions may also require us to conduct additional clinical trials or to make certain changes related to a product after granting approval of the product. the fda has the explicit authority to require postmarketing studies (also referred to as post-approval or phase 4 studies), labeling changes based on new safety information, and compliance with fda-approved risk evaluation and mitigation strategies. following approval, the fda regulates the marketing and promotion of our products, which must comply with the food, drug, and cosmetic act and applicable fda regulations and standards thereunder. the fda's review of promotional activities includes, but is not limited to, healthcare provider-directed and direct-to-consumer advertising as well as sales representatives' communications. the fda may take enforcement action for promoting unapproved uses of a product or other violations of its advertising and promotion laws and regulations. see part i, item 1a. "risk factors - regulatory and litigation risks - if we market and sell approved products in a way that violates federal or state healthcare laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties ." adverse-event reporting and submission of periodic reports are required following marketing approval. the fda requires bla holders to employ a system for obtaining and reviewing safety information, adverse events, and product complaints associated with each drug and submit safety reports to the fda, with expedited reporting timelines in certain situations. based on new safety information after approval, the fda can, among other things, mandate product labeling changes, require new post-marketing studies, impose or modify a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy for the product, or suspend or withdraw approval of the product. we may be subject to audits by the fda and other regulatory authorities to ensure that we are complying with the applicable requirements. in addition, we and our third-party suppliers are required to maintain compliance with cgmps, and are subject to inspections by the fda or comparable regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions to confirm such compliance. changes of suppliers or modifications of methods of manufacturing may require amending our application(s) to the fda or such comparable foreign regulatory authorities and acceptance of the change by the fda or such comparable foreign regulatory authorities prior to release of product(s). fda regulations also require investigation and correction of any deviations from cgmp and impose reporting and documentation requirements upon us and our third-party suppliers. prescription drug manufacturers in the u.s. must comply with applicable provisions of the drug supply chain security act and provide and receive product tracing information, maintain appropriate licenses, ensure they only work with other properly licensed entities, and have procedures in place to identify and 26 table of contents properly handle suspect and illegitimate products. we may also be subject to state regulations related to the manufacturing and distribution of our products. failure to comply with these laws and regulations may lead the fda and comparable regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions to take regulatory action, which could include ordering the suspension of manufacturing or withdrawing fda approval of a product. pricing and reimbursement sales in the united states of our marketed products are dependent, in large part, on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payers, including private payer healthcare and insurance programs, health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit management companies, and government programs such as medicare and medicaid. sales of our marketed products in other countries are dependent, in large part, on coverage and reimbursement mechanisms and programs administered by health authorities in those countries. see part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to commercialization of our marketed products, product candidates, and new indications for our marketed products - sales of our marketed products are dependent on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payers, and changes to such reimbursement may materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. " we participate in, and have certain price reporting obligations to, the medicaid drug rebate program, several state medicaid supplemental rebate programs, and other governmental pricing programs. we also have obligations to report the average sales price for certain of our drugs to the medicare program. under the medicaid drug rebate program, we are required to pay a rebate to each state medicaid program for our covered outpatient drugs that are dispensed to medicaid beneficiaries and paid for by a state medicaid program as a condition of having federal funds being made available to the states for our drugs under medicaid and part b of the medicare program. medicaid is a joint federal and state program that is administered by the states for low income and disabled beneficiaries. medicaid rebates are based on pricing data reported by us on a monthly and quarterly basis to the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services (cms), the federal agency that administers the medicaid and medicare programs. these data include the average manufacturer price and, in the case of innovator products, the best price for each drug which, in general, represents the lowest price available from the manufacturer to any entity in the u.s. in any pricing structure, calculated to include all sales and associated rebates, discounts, and other price concessions. the amount of the rebate is adjusted upward if average manufacture price increases more than inflation (measured by reference to the consumer price index - urban). if we become aware that our reporting for a prior quarter was incorrect, or has changed as a result of recalculation of the pricing data, we are obligated to resubmit the corrected data for up to three years after those data originally were due, which revisions could affect our rebate liability for prior quarters. the federal patient protection and affordable care act (ppaca) made significant changes to the medicaid drug rebate program, and cms issued a final regulation, which became effective on april 1, 2016, to implement the changes to the medicaid drug rebate program under the ppaca. medicare is a federal program that is administered by the federal government that covers individuals age 65 and over or that are disabled as well as those with certain health conditions. medicare part b generally covers drugs that must be administered by physicians or other health care practitioners are provided in connection with certain durable medical equipment or are certain oral anti-cancer drugs and certain oral immunosuppressive drugs. medicare part b pays for such drugs under a payment methodology based on the average sales price of the drugs. manufacturers, including us, are required to report average sales price information to cms on a quarterly basis. the manufacturer-submitted information is used by cms to calculate medicare payment rates. civil monetary penalties can be applied if we are found to have knowingly submitted any false pricing or other information to the government, if we are found to have made a misrepresentation in the reporting of our average sales price, or if we fail to submit the required data on a timely basis. such conduct also could be grounds for cms to terminate our medicaid drug rebate agreement, in which case federal payments may not be available under medicaid or medicare part b for our covered outpatient drugs. federal law requires that any company that participates in the medicaid drug rebate program also participate in the public health service's 340b drug pricing program (340b program) in order for federal funds to be available for the manufacturer's drugs under medicaid and medicare part b. the 340b program, which is administered by the health resources and services administration, or hrsa, requires participating manufacturers to agree to charge statutorily defined covered entities no more than the 340b "ceiling price" for the manufacturer's covered outpatient drugs. covered entities include hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of financially needy patients, community health clinics, and other entities that receive certain types of grants under the public health service act. the ppaca expanded the list of covered entities to include certain free-standing cancer hospitals, critical access hospitals, rural referral centers, and sole community hospitals, but exempts "orphan drugs" from the ceiling price requirements for these covered entities. the 340b ceiling price is calculated using a statutory formula, which is based on the average manufacturer price and medicaid rebate amount for the covered outpatient drug as calculated under the medicaid drug rebate program. in general, products subject to medicaid price reporting and rebate liability are also subject to the 340b ceiling price calculation and discount requirement. 27 table of contents hrsa issued a final regulation regarding the calculation of the 340b ceiling price and the imposition of civil monetary penalties on manufacturers that knowingly and intentionally overcharge covered entities, which became effective on january 1, 2019. it is currently unclear how hrsa will apply its enforcement authority under the new regulation. any charge by hrsa that we have violated the requirements of the regulation could result in civil monetary penalties. hrsa also has announced that it will begin to implement a ceiling price reporting requirement related to the 340b program during the first quarter of 2019. in addition, legislation may be introduced that, if passed, would further expand the 340b program to additional covered entities or would require participating manufacturers to agree to provide 340b discounted pricing on drugs used in an inpatient setting. in order to be eligible to have our products paid for with federal funds under the medicaid and medicare part b programs and purchased by certain federal agencies and grantees, we participate in the u.s. department of veterans affairs (va) federal supply schedule (fss) pricing program. fss participation is required for our products to be purchased by the va, department of defense (dod), coast guard, and public health service (phs). prices for innovator drugs purchased by the va, dod, coast guard, and phs are subject to a cap (known as the federal ceiling price) equal to 76% of the annual non-federal average manufacturer price (non-famp) minus an additional discount. the additional discount applies if the current year q3 non-famp is greater than the prior year q3 non-famp by more than the allowable inflation rate (measured by reference to the consumer price index - urban). we also participate in the tricare retail pharmacy program, under which we pay quarterly rebates to dod for prescriptions of our innovator drugs dispensed to tricare beneficiaries through tricare retail network pharmacies. the governing statute provides for civil monetary penalties for failure to provide information timely or for knowing submission of false information to the government. medicare part d provides coverage to enrolled medicare patients for self-administered drugs ( i.e. , drugs that are not administered by a physician). medicare part d is administered by private prescription drug plans approved by the u.s. government and, subject to detailed program rules and government oversight, each drug plan establishes its own medicare part d formulary for prescription drug coverage and pricing, which the drug plan may modify from time to time. the prescription drug plans negotiate pricing with manufacturers and pharmacies, and may condition formulary placement on the availability of manufacturer discounts. in addition, for 2019, manufacturers, including us, are required to provide to cms a 70% discount on brand name prescription drugs utilized by medicare part d beneficiaries when those beneficiaries are in the coverage gap phase of the part d benefit design. private payor healthcare and insurance providers, health maintenance organizations, and pharmacy benefit managers in the united states are adopting more aggressive utilization management techniques and are increasingly requiring significant discounts and rebates from manufacturers as a condition to including products on formulary with favorable coverage and copayment/coinsurance. as a consequence, these payers may not cover or adequately reimburse for use of our products or may do so at levels that disadvantage them relative to competitive products. outside the united states, within the eu, our products are paid for by a variety of payors, with governments being the primary source of payment. government health authorities in the eu determine or influence reimbursement of products, and set prices or otherwise regulate pricing. negotiating prices with governmental authorities can delay commercialization of our products. governments may use a variety of cost-containment measures to control the cost of products, including price cuts, mandatory rebates, value-based pricing, and reference pricing ( i.e. , referencing prices in other countries or prices of competitive products and using those reference prices to set a price). budgetary pressures in many eu countries are continuing to cause governments to consider or implement various cost-containment measures, such as price freezes, increased price cuts and rebates, and expanded generic substitution and patient cost-sharing. other regulatory requirements we are subject to health care "fraud and abuse" laws, such as the federal false claims act, the anti-kickback provisions of the federal social security act, and other state and federal laws and regulations. federal and state anti-kickback laws prohibit, among other things, payments or other remuneration to induce or reward someone to purchase, prescribe, endorse, or recommend a product that is reimbursed under federal or state healthcare programs. federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. see part i, item 1a. "risk factors - regulatory and litigation risks - if we market and sell approved products in a way that violates federal or state healthcare laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties ." we are subject to the foreign corrupt practices act, or fcpa, and similar anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws, regulations or rules of other countries in which we operate, including the u.k. bribery act. see part i, item 1a. "risk factors - regulatory and litigation risks - risks from the improper conduct of employees, agents, contractors, or collaborators could adversely affect our reputation and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition ." numerous federal and state laws, including state security breach notification laws, state health information privacy laws, and federal and state consumer protection laws, govern the collection, use, and disclosure of personal information. in addition, most health care providers, including research institutions from which we or our collaborators obtain patient health information, are 28 table of contents subject to privacy and security regulations promulgated under the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, or hipaa, as amended by the health information technology for economic and clinical health act. although we are not directly subject to hipaa other than with respect to providing certain employee benefits, we could potentially be subject to criminal penalties if we, our affiliates, or our agents knowingly obtain or disclose individually identifiable health information maintained by a hipaa-covered entity in a manner that is not authorized or permitted by hipaa. outside the united states, our clinical trial programs and research collaborations may implicate international data protection laws, including the general data protection regulation (gdpr) in the eu. the gdpr became effective on may 25, 2018, increasing our responsibility and liability in relation to the processing of personal data of eu subjects. the gdpr, together with the national legislation of the eu member states governing the processing of personal data, impose strict obligations and restrictions on the ability to collect, analyze and transfer personal data, including health data from clinical trials and adverse event reporting. in particular, these obligations and restrictions concern the consent of the individuals to whom the personal data relates, the information provided to the individuals, the transfer of personal data out of the eu, security breach notifications, security and confidentiality of the personal data and imposition of substantial potential fines for breaches of the data protection obligations. data protection authorities from the different eu member states may interpret the gdpr and national laws differently and impose additional requirements, which add to the complexity of processing personal data in the eu. guidance on implementation and compliance practices are often updated or otherwise revised. see part i, item 1a. "risk factors - regulatory and litigation risks - we face potential liability related to the privacy of health information we obtain from clinical trials sponsored by us or our collaborators, from research institutions and our collaborators, and directly from individuals ." in addition to the foregoing, our present business is, and our future business will be, subject to regulation under the united states atomic energy act, the clean air act, the clean water act, the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act, the national environmental policy act, the toxic substances control act, the resource conservation and recovery act, national restrictions, and other current and potential future local, state, federal, and foreign regulations. business segments we manage our business as one segment which includes all activities related to the discovery, development, and commercialization of medicines for the treatment of serious medical conditions. for financial information related to our one segment, see part ii, item 6. "selected financial data" and our consolidated financial statements and related notes. employees as of december 31, 2018, we had approximately 7,400 full-time employees. we believe that we have been successful in attracting skilled and experienced personnel in a highly competitive environment; however, competition for these personnel is intense. our management considers its relations with our employees to be good. corporate information we were incorporated in the state of new york in 1988 and publicly listed in 1991. our principal executive offices are located at 777 old saw mill river road, tarrytown, new york 10591, and our telephone number at that address is (914) 847-7000. we make available free of charge on or through our internet website ( http://www.regeneron.com ) our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the securities and exchange commission (sec). investors and other interested parties should note that we use our media and investor relations website ( http://newsroom.regeneron.com ) and our social media channels to publish important information about regeneron, including information that may be deemed material to investors. we encourage investors and other interested parties to review the information we may publish through our media and investor relations website and the social media channels listed on our media and investor relations website, in addition to our sec filings, press releases, conference calls, and webcasts. the information contained on our websites and social media channels is not included as a part of, or incorporated by reference into, this report. 29 table of contents item 1a. risk factors we operate in an environment that involves a number of significant risks and uncertainties. we caution you to read the following risk factors, which have affected, and/or in the future could affect, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. the risks described below include forward-looking statements, and actual events and our actual results may differ materially from these forward-looking statements. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. furthermore, additional risks and uncertainties are described under other captions in this report and should also be considered by our investors. risks related to commercialization of our marketed products, product candidates, and new indications for our marketed products we are substantially dependent on the success of eylea. eylea net sales represent a substantial portion of our revenues and this concentration of our net sales in a single product makes us substantially dependent on that product. for the years ended december 31, 2018 and 2017, eylea net sales in the united states represented 61% and 63% of our total revenues, respectively. if we were to experience difficulty with the commercialization of eylea in the united states, if bayer were to experience any difficulty with the commercialization of eylea outside the united states, or if we and bayer are unable to maintain current marketing approvals of eylea, we may experience a reduction in revenue and may not be able to sustain profitability, and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be materially harmed. if we or our collaborators are unable to continue to successfully commercialize our products, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition will be materially harmed. we expect that the continued commercial success of our marketed products (in particular, eylea, dupixent, praluent, kevzara, and libtayo) will depend on many factors, including the following (as applicable): effectiveness of the commercial strategy in and outside the united states for the marketing of our products, including pricing strategy; sufficient coverage of, and reimbursement for, our marketed products by third-party payers, including medicare and medicaid in the united states and other government and private payers in the united states and foreign jurisdictions, as well as payer restrictions on eligible patient populations and the reimbursement process, both in the united states and abroad; our ability and our collaborators' ability to maintain sales of our marketed products in the face of competitive products and to differentiate our marketed products from competitive products, including as applicable product candidates currently in clinical development; and, in the case of eylea, the willingness of retinal specialists and patients to switch from lucentis or off-label use of repackaged avastin to eylea or to start treatment with eylea; maintaining and successfully monitoring commercial manufacturing arrangements for our marketed products with third parties who perform fill/finish or other steps in the manufacture of such products to ensure that they meet our standards and those of regulatory authorities, including the fda, which extensively regulate and monitor pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities; our ability to meet the demand for commercial supplies of our marketed products; the outcome of the pending patent infringement proceedings relating to eylea, dupixent, and praluent (described further in note 17 to our consolidated financial statements included in this report), and other risks relating to our marketed products associated with intellectual property of other parties and pending or future litigation relating thereto, as discussed under "risks related to intellectual property and market exclusivity" below; the results of post-approval studies, whether conducted by us or by others and whether mandated by regulatory agencies or voluntary, and studies of other products that could implicate an entire class of products or are perceived to do so; and the effect of existing and new health care laws and regulations currently being considered or implemented in the united states, including reporting and disclosure requirements of such laws and regulations and the potential impact of such requirements on physician prescribing practices. more detailed information about the risks related to the commercialization of our marketed products is provided in the risk factors below. 30 table of contents we and our collaborators are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight with respect to the products we or our collaborators commercialize. if we or our collaborators fail to maintain regulatory compliance for any of such products, the applicable marketing approval may be withdrawn, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. we and our collaborators are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight with respect to the products we or they commercialize (such as eylea, dupixent, praluent, kevzara, and libtayo) for the products' currently approved indications in the united states, eu, and other countries where such products are approved. if we or our collaborators fail to maintain regulatory compliance for such products' currently approved indications (including because the product does not meet the relevant endpoints of any required post-approval studies, or for any of the reasons discussed below under "risks related to maintaining approval of our marketed products and the development and obtaining approval of our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products - obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval for drug products is costly, time-consuming, and highly uncertain "), the applicable marketing approval may be withdrawn, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. failure to comply may also subject us to sanctions, product recalls, or withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications. see also "risks related to manufacturing and supply - our or our collaborators' failure to meet the stringent requirements of governmental regulation in the manufacture of drug products or product candidates could result in incurring substantial remedial costs, delays in the development or approval of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products and/or in their commercial launch if they obtain regulatory approval, and a reduction in sales " below. serious complications or side effects in connection with the use of our marketed products could materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. serious complications or serious, unexpected side effects in connection with the use of our marketed products (such as eylea, dupixent, praluent, kevzara, and libtayo) could materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. for additional information about some of these risks, see "risks related to maintaining approval of our marketed products and the development and obtaining approval of our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products - serious complications or side effects in connection with the use of our products and in clinical trials for our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products could cause our regulatory approvals to be revoked or limited or lead to delay or discontinuation of development of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, which could severely harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition " below. sales of our marketed products are dependent on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payers, and changes to such reimbursement may materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. sales of our marketed products (such as eylea, dupixent, praluent, kevzara, and libtayo) in the united states are dependent, in large part, on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payers, including private payer healthcare and insurance programs, health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit management companies, and government programs such as medicare and medicaid. sales of our marketed products in other countries are dependent, in large part, on similar reimbursement mechanisms and programs in those countries. our future revenues and profitability will be adversely affected in a material manner if such third-party payers do not adequately defray or reimburse the cost of our marketed products to patients. if these entities do not provide coverage and reimbursement with respect to our marketed products or provide an insufficient level of coverage and reimbursement, such products may be too costly for many patients to afford them, and physicians may not prescribe them. many third-party payers cover only selected drugs, or may prefer selected drugs, making drugs that are not covered or preferred by such payers more expensive for patients. third-party payers may also require prior authorization for reimbursement, or require failure on another type of treatment before covering a particular drug, particularly with respect to higher-priced drugs. as our currently marketed products and product candidates are biologics, bringing them to market may cost more than bringing traditional, small-molecule drugs to market due to the complexity associated with the research, development, production, supply and regulatory review of such products. given cost sensitivities in many health care systems, our currently marketed products and product candidates are likely to be subject to continued pricing pressures, which may have an adverse impact on our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. in addition, in order for private insurance and governmental payers (such as medicare and medicaid in the united states) to reimburse the cost of our marketed products, we must, among other things, maintain our fda registration and our national drug code, maintain formulary approval by pharmacy benefits managers, and maintain recognition by insurance companies and the cms. there is no certainty that we will be able to obtain or maintain the applicable requirements for reimbursement (including relevant formulary coverage, as discussed further below) of our current and future marketed products, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. 31 table of contents government and other third-party payers (including pharmacy benefit management companies) are challenging the prices charged for healthcare products and increasingly limiting, and attempting to limit, both coverage and level of reimbursement for prescription drugs, such as by requiring outcomes-based or other pay-for-performance pricing arrangements. they are also imposing restrictions on eligible patient populations and the reimbursement process, including by means of required prior authorizations and utilization management criteria. some states are also considering legislation that would control the prices and reimbursement of prescription drugs, and state medicaid programs are increasingly requesting manufacturers to pay supplemental rebates and requiring prior authorization by the state program for use of any prescription drug for which supplemental rebates are not being paid. it is likely that federal and state legislatures and health agencies will continue to focus on additional health care reform measures in the future that will impose additional constraints on prices and reimbursements for our marketed products. further, there have been several recent u.s. congressional inquiries and proposed federal and state legislation designed to, among other things, bring more transparency to drug pricing, review the relationship between pricing and manufacturer patient programs, reduce the out-of-pocket cost of prescription drugs, and reform government program reimbursement methodologies for drugs. at the federal level, the current administration's budget proposal for fiscal year 2019 contains drug price control measures that could be enacted during the 2019 budget process or in other future legislation, including, for example, measures to permit medicare part d plans to negotiate the price of certain drugs under medicare part b (such as eylea), to allow some states to negotiate drug prices under medicaid, and to eliminate cost sharing for generic drugs for low-income patients. additionally, on may 11, 2018, president trump laid out his administration's "blueprint to lower drug prices and reduce out-of-pocket costs" to reduce the cost of prescription drugs while preserving innovation and cures. the department of health and human services has been soliciting feedback on some of these measures and may implement others impacting our business under its existing authority. cms has also recently sought public comment on how best to leverage its authority provided under the competitive acquisition program and introduce competition into medicare part b by allowing cms to bring on vendors to negotiate payment amounts for medicare part b drugs. in addition, in august 2018, cms issued new guidance that recognizes that medicare advantage (ma) plans may use step therapy ( i.e. , requiring the use of less costly medications before more costly medications are approved for coverage) for part b drugs (such as eylea), beginning january 1, 2019, as part of a patient-centered care coordination program. cms will also consider rulemaking related to step therapy that might be appropriate for 2020 and future years. on october 25, 2018, president trump announced that cms was evaluating a pilot program that proposes to set the medicare payment amount for part b single-source drugs and biologics to more closely align with international drug prices (also referred to as reference pricing) and pay physicians and hospitals participating in such program a set drug add-on payment for administered drugs. cms also issued an advance notice of proposed rulemaking that requested public comment on the pilot program, which is proposed to initially cover fifty percent of medicare part b spending on separately payable part b drugs (such as eylea). congress and the u.s. administration have each indicated that they will continue to seek new legislative and/or administrative measures to control drug costs. at the state level, legislatures are becoming increasingly aggressive in passing legislation and implementing regulations designed to control pharmaceutical and biological product pricing, including price or patient reimbursement constraints, discounts, restrictions on certain product access, and marketing cost disclosure and transparency measures. in some cases, these measures are designed to encourage importation from other countries and bulk purchasing. a reduction in the availability or extent of reimbursement from u.s. government programs (including based on the proposals and initiatives described above) could have a material adverse effect on the sales of eylea or our other marketed products. economic pressure on state budgets may also have a similar impact. in addition, pharmacy benefit management companies often develop formularies to reduce their cost for medications. the breadth of the products covered by formularies varies considerably from one pharmacy benefit management company to another. failure to be included in such formularies or to achieve favorable formulary status may negatively impact the utilization and market share of our marketed products. if our marketed products are not included within an adequate number of formularies, adequate reimbursement levels are not provided, the eligible insured patient population for our products is limited, or a key payer refuses to provide reimbursement for our products in a particular jurisdiction altogether, this could have a material adverse effect on our and our collaborators' ability to commercialize the applicable product. in certain foreign countries, pricing, coverage, and level of reimbursement of prescription drugs are subject to governmental control, and we and our collaborators may be unable to obtain coverage, pricing, and/or reimbursement on terms that are favorable to us or necessary for us or our collaborators to successfully commercialize our marketed products in those countries. in some foreign countries, the proposed pricing for a drug must be approved before it may be lawfully marketed. the requirements governing drug pricing and reimbursement vary widely from country to country, and may take into account the clinical effectiveness, cost, and service impact of existing, new, and emerging drugs and treatments. for example, the eu provides options for its member states to restrict the range of medicinal products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices of medicinal products for human use. a member state may approve a specific price for the medicinal product or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the medicinal product on the market. our results of operations may suffer if we or our collaborators are unable to market our products in foreign countries or if coverage and reimbursement for our marketed products in foreign countries is limited or delayed. 32 table of contents the commercial success of our products and product candidates is subject to strong competition. marketed products there is substantial competition in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries from biotechnology, pharmaceutical, and chemical companies. many of our competitors have substantially greater research, preclinical and clinical product development and manufacturing capabilities, as well as financial, marketing, and human resources, than we do. our smaller competitors may also enhance their competitive position if they acquire or discover patentable inventions, form collaborative arrangements, or merge with large pharmaceutical companies. there is significant actual and potential future competition for each of our marketed products. eylea . the market for eye disease products is very competitive. for example, novartis and genentech/roche are collaborating on the commercialization and further development of a vegf antibody fragment, lucentis, for the treatment of various eye indications. lucentis is approved in one or more jurisdictions for the treatment of wet amd, macular edema following rvo (including crvo and brvo), dme, diabetic retinopathy, and mcnv. in addition, we are aware of several companies developing biosimilar versions of eylea. for example, momenta pharmaceuticals (in partnership with mylan) is developing m710 (currently in a pivotal trial in patients with dme). competitors are also exploring the development of a biosimilar version of lucentis; in particular, formycon (in collaboration with bioeq) is developing fyb201 (a phase 3 trial in patients with wet amd has been completed), samsung bioepis is developing sb11 (currently in a phase 3 trial in patients with wet amd), and pfenex is developing pf582 (a phase 1b/2a trial in patients with wet amd has been completed). other competitive or potentially competitive products include allergan's ozurdex (approved by the fda for the treatment of macular edema following rvo and for the treatment of dme) and alimera sciences' iluvien (approved by the fda for the treatment of dme in patients who have been previously treated with a course of corticosteroids and did not have a clinically significant rise in intraocular pressure), both of which are intravitreal implants of corticosteroids. many other companies are working on the development of product candidates and extended delivery devices for the potential treatment of wet amd, dme, and rvo, including those that act by blocking vegf and vegf receptors, as well as small interfering ribonucleic acids (sirnas) that modulate gene expression. novartis is developing rth258 (brolucizumab), a humanized monoclonal single-chain fv (scfv) antibody fragment targeting vegf-a for wet amd and dme. novartis announced in june 2017 that two phase 3 studies of rth258 met their primary endpoint of non-inferiority to eylea and has indicated that it is targeting approval by global regulatory authorities in 2019. allergan is developing abicipar pegol for wet amd and related conditions and announced in july 2018 that two phase 3 studies of abicipar pegol met their primary endpoint of non-inferiority to lucentis. chengdu kanghong pharmaceutical industry group is conducting non-inferiority phase 3 trials in the united states and europe comparing conbercept, an anti-vegf fusion protein, against eylea in wet amd. conbercept is approved in the wet amd and myopic choroidal neovascularization indications in china. genentech/roche is developing a port delivery system implant for ranibizumab (currently in a phase 3 study in patients with wet amd). kodiak sciences is developing ksi-301, an anti-vegf biologic therapy that is conjugated to a phosphorylcholine-based biopolymer to extend its half-life, for wet amd, dme, and rvo. a phase 1 study of ksi-301 in patients with dme met its primary safety and tolerability endpoint, and kodiak has initiated a phase 1b open label study in patients with wet amd, dme, and rvo. in addition, companies are developing products (or combinations of products) to treat wet amd that act by blocking vegf and vegf receptors, as well as other targets (for example, ang2). genentech/roche is developing a bi-specific antibody, faricimab (rg7716), that targets both vegf and ang2 for wet amd and dme (currently in phase 3 non-inferiority studies comparing rg7716 against eylea in dme). products that are being developed for use in combination with eylea and/or lucentis may also pose a competitive threat. opthea is developing opt-302, a vegfr-3 large molecule trap in combination with lucentis in a phase 2 trial for wet amd. santen (in partnership with tracon ) is developing de-122, an anti-endoglin antibody in combination with lucentis in a phase 2 trial for wet amd. small-molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitors that have activity against vegf may also compete against eylea, if approved for wet amd and/or related conditions. graybug is developing gb-102, an intravitreally administered depot formulation of the small molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitor, sunitinib, in a phase 1/2 trial for wet amd. panoptica is developing pan-90806, a topically administered tyrosine kinase inhibitor currently in a phase 1/2 trial for wet amd. competitors are also developing other eye-drop formulations, devices, oral therapies, and gene/cell therapies (such as regenxbio's rgx-314) for various indications that, if approved, would compete with eylea in one or more of its currently approved indications. in addition, ophthalmologists are using off-label, third-party repackaged versions of genentech/roche's approved vegf antagonist, avastin, for the treatment of wet amd, dme, and rvo. the relatively low cost of therapy with repackaged avastin presents a significant competitive challenge for eylea in these indications. avastin is also being evaluated in eye diseases in clinical trials in certain countries. amgen (in collaboration with allergan) has obtained regulatory approval of a biosimilar version of avastin in the united states and the eu, and other competitors are also developing a biosimilar version of avastin. off-label use of any such biosimilar in one or more of the eye indications for which eylea is approved may put further pressure on the commercialization of eylea. 33 table of contents finally, zaltrap has not been manufactured and formulated for use in intravitreal injections, and there is a risk that third parties may attempt to repackage zaltrap for off-label use and sale for the treatment of diseases of the eye, which would present a potential low-cost competitive threat to eylea for its approved indications. we are aware of claims by third parties, including those based on published clinical data, alleging that zaltrap may be safely administered to the eye. dupixent . the market for dupixent's current and potential future indications is competitive. in atopic dermatitis, pfizer's eucrisa, a topical ointment, competes with dupixent and there are several other topical agents in development. in addition, a number of companies are developing antibodies against il-13 for the treatment of atopic dermatitis, including leo pharma (in collaboration with astrazeneca) with tralokinumab (currently in several phase 3 trials) and dermira (in collaboration with genentech/roche) with lebrikizumab (currently in a phase 2b trial). antibodies targeting ox40 are also in development for atopic dermatitis, with glenmark pharmaceuticals and kyowa hakko kirin co. conducting phase 2 trials of their respective programs (gbr-830 and khk4083). galderma has completed a phase 2b trial of nemolizumab, an antibody against il-31r. xbiotech has completed a phase 2 trial of bermekimab, an anti-il-1alpha antibody. novartis, in partnership with morphosys, has a phase 2 trial in atopic dermatitis underway for mor-106, an anti-il-17c antibody. kiniksa pharmaceuticals has completed phase 1 trials in atopic dermatitis for kpl-716, an antibody against the oncostatin m receptor beta. orally administered small molecules are also being developed for atopic dermatitis, and, if approved, may compete with dupixent in atopic dermatitis and other potential future indications. several companies are studying jak inhibitors for atopic dermatitis, including abbvie's upadacitinib, pfizer's abrocitinib (pf-04965842), eli lilly's baricitinib (recently reported to have met the primary endpoints of two atopic dermatitis phase 3 studies), and asana biosciences' asn002. in asthma and potential future indications, competitors to dupixent include antibodies against the il-5 ligand or the il-5 receptor such as gsk's nucala, astrazeneca's fasenra, and teva's cinqair, all of which are approved for asthma in the united states and other jurisdictions. novartis and genentech/roche's xolair is also approved for asthma in multiple jurisdictions. orally administered small molecule agents may also compete with dupixent in asthma and potential future indications. for example, novartis is developing fevipiprant, an oral prostaglandin d2 receptor 2 (crth2/dp2) antagonist, in multiple phase 3 trials for asthma. inhaled products may also compete with dupixent in asthma and potential future indications, including pieris pharmaceuticals' prs-060 (an anticalin being developed in partnership with astrazeneca against il-4r) and novartis' csj117 (an antibody fragment against thymic stromal lymphopoietin). there are several other potentially competitive products in development that may compete with dupixent in both the atopic dermatitis and asthma indications, as well as potential future indications. for example, amgen/astrazeneca's tezepelumab, an antibody against thymic stromal lymphopoietin, or tslp, is currently in phase 3 development for asthma and phase 2 trials in atopic dermatitis have been completed. antibodies against the il-33 ligand or the il-33 receptor (st2) may also be competitive with dupixent across multiple indications. phase 2 trials are ongoing in atopic dermatitis and asthma for etiokimab (anb-020), an antibody against il-33 developed by anaptysbio. genentech/roche is developing rg6149, an anti-st2 antibody, in phase 2 trials for asthma and atopic dermatitis. gsk is developing gsk3772847, an anti-st2 antibody, in a phase 2 trial for asthma, and completed a phase 1 trial that included atopic dermatitis patients. praluent . amgen's repatha has already received regulatory approvals in jurisdictions including the u.s., the eu, and japan, and has captured a significant market share in certain jurisdictions. amgen may obtain marketing approval for repatha in one or more additional countries before praluent is approved in those countries. repatha has also received regulatory approval for cardiovascular risk reduction. other companies with development programs for injectables against pcsk9 include alnylam pharmaceuticals, inc. (in collaboration with the medicines company), which has a clinical program underway with inclisiran, an rnai molecule against pcsk9. in addition, there are therapeutic products targeting pcsk9 operating through other mechanisms of action in development, including oral products and vaccines. oral products that lower ldl-c, if approved, may also be competitive with pcsk9 inhibitors, including praluent. these include bempedoic acid, which is being developed by esperion therapeutics, inc. (currently in phase 3 clinical development). kevzara . genentech/roche and chugai are marketing an antibody against il-6r (actemra) for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis that competes with kevzara. in addition, several other companies, including r-pharm jsc and biocad, have antibodies against il-6 or il-6r in clinical development for rheumatoid arthritis. biosimilar versions of actemra may also compete with kevzara, such as mycenax's lucinex (a phase 1 trial has been completed). further, oral, small-molecule jak inhibitors such as pfizer's xeljanz, eli lilly's olumiant, gilead sciences' filgotinib, astellas pharma's peficitinib, and abbvie's upadacitinib may pose a competitive threat for kevzara. libtayo . there are several competitors that are marketing or developing antibodies against pd-1 and/or pdl-1, including bristol-myers squibb's opdivo, merck's keytruda, roche's tecentriq, astrazeneca's imfinzi, pfizer's bavencio, novartis' spartalizumab (pdr001), celgene/beigene's tislelizumab (bgb-a317), gsk's dostarlimab (tsr-042), agenus' agen2034, and incyte's incmga0012. see also part i. item 1. "business - competition" of this report. 34 table of contents product candidates our other late-stage and earlier-stage clinical candidates in development are all fully human antibodies, which were generated using our velocimmune technology. our antibody generation technologies and other late-stage and earlier-stage clinical candidates face competition from many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies using various technologies. we are aware of several pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies actively engaged in the research and development of antibody-based products against targets that are also the targets of our early- and late-stage product candidates. for example, pfizer (in collaboration with eli lilly) is developing an antibody-based product candidate against ngf. competitors to evinacumab include ionis pharmaceuticals/akcea therapeutics' akcea-angptl3-lrx, a ligand conjugated antisense drug against angptl3, and arrowhead pharmaceuticals' aro-ang3, an rnai therapeutic against angptl3. we are also aware of several companies developing or marketing small molecules that may compete with our antibody-based product candidates in various indications, if such product candidates obtain regulatory approval in those indications. see also part i. item 1. "business - competition" of this report. if any of these or other competitors announces a successful clinical study involving a product that may be competitive with one of our product candidates or the grant of marketing approval by a regulatory agency for a competitive product, such developments may have an adverse effect on our business or future prospects. in addition, the first product to reach the market in a therapeutic area is often at a significant competitive advantage relative to later entrants to the market. accordingly, the relative speed with which we, or our collaborators, can develop our products candidates, complete the clinical trials and approval processes, and, if such product candidates are approved for marketing and sale, supply commercial quantities to the market is expected to continue to be an important competitive factor. due to the uncertainties associated with developing biopharmaceutical products, we may not be the first to obtain marketing approval for a product against any particular target, which may have a material adverse effect on our business or future prospects. we rely on our collaborations with bayer and sanofi for commercializing eylea and dupixent, praluent, kevzara, and libtayo, respectively. while we have established our own sales and marketing organization for eylea in the united states for its currently approved indications, we have no sales, marketing, commercial, or distribution capabilities for eylea outside the united states. under the terms of our license and collaboration agreement with bayer (which is terminable by bayer at any time upon six or twelve months' advance notice, depending on the circumstances giving rise to termination), we rely on bayer for sales, marketing, and distribution of eylea in countries outside the united states. in addition, while we have elected to co-promote dupixent, praluent, and kevzara with sanofi in the united states in accordance with the terms of our antibody collaboration, we continue to rely in part on sanofi's sales and marketing organization in the united states for such products. moreover, even though we lead commercialization efforts for libtayo in the united states, sanofi has exercised its option to co-promote libtayo in the united states in accordance with the terms of our io collaboration. if we and sanofi fail to coordinate our united states sales and marketing efforts effectively, sales of dupixent, praluent, kevzara, or libtayo (as applicable) may be materially affected. sanofi also maintains other important responsibilities relating to dupixent, praluent, and kevzara in the united states. for example, sanofi records product sales for dupixent, praluent, and kevzara in the united states, serves as the lead regulatory party for certain products and product candidates included in the antibody collaboration ( e.g. , is responsible for regulatory filings and negotiations relating to such products and product candidates) in the united states, and may lead negotiations with payors relating to such products and product candidates. we also rely on sanofi for sales, marketing, and distribution of dupixent, praluent, kevzara, and (in the future) libtayo in countries outside the united states. if we and our collaborators are unsuccessful in continuing to commercialize the marketed products subject to such collaborations, or if bayer or sanofi terminate their respective collaborations with us, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be materially impaired. we have limited commercial capabilities outside the united states and would have to develop or outsource these capabilities. therefore, termination of the bayer collaboration agreement, our antibody collaboration, or our io collaboration would create substantial new and additional risks to the successful commercialization of the applicable products, particularly outside the united states. for additional information regarding our collaborations with bayer and sanofi, see "risks related to our reliance on third parties - if our collaboration with bayer for eylea is terminated, or bayer materially breaches its obligations thereunder, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition, and our ability to continue to develop eylea and commercialize eylea outside the united states in the time expected, or at all, would be materially harmed " below and "risks related to our reliance on third parties - if our antibody collaboration or our io collaboration with sanofi is terminated, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition, and our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize our pipeline of product candidates in the time expected, or at all, would be materially harmed " below. 35 table of contents sales of our marketed products recorded by us and our collaborators could be reduced by imports from countries where such products may be available at lower prices. our sales of products we commercialize in the united states and our collaborators' sales of products they commercialize under our collaboration agreements with them in the united states and other countries (which impact our share of any profits or losses from the commercialization of these products under the relevant collaboration agreements and, therefore, our results of operations) may be reduced if the applicable product is imported into those countries from lower priced markets, whether legally or illegally (a practice known as parallel trading or reimportation). parallel traders (who may repackage or otherwise alter the original product or sell it through alternative channels such as mail order or the internet) take advantage of the price differentials between markets arising from factors including sales costs, market conditions (such as intermediate trading stages), tax rates, or national regulation of prices. under our arrangement with bayer, pricing and reimbursement for eylea outside the united states is the responsibility of bayer. similarly, under our antibody collaboration and io collaboration with sanofi, pricing and reimbursement for the products commercialized thereunder outside the united states are the responsibility of sanofi. prices for our marketed products in jurisdictions outside the united states are based on local market economics and competition and are likely to differ from country to country. in the united states, prices for pharmaceuticals are generally higher than in the bordering nations of canada and mexico and sales of our marketed products in the united states may be reduced if the applicable product marketed in those bordering nations is imported into the united states. in addition, there are proposals to legalize the import of pharmaceuticals from outside the united states into the united states. if such proposals were implemented, our future revenues derived from sales of our marketed products could be reduced. parallel-trading practices also are of particular relevance to the eu, where they have been encouraged by the current regulatory framework. these types of imports may exert pressure on the pricing of our marketed products in a particular market or reduce sales recorded by us or our collaborators, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations. we may be unsuccessful in continuing the commercialization of our marketed products or in commercializing our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if approved, which would materially and adversely affect our business, profitability, and future prospects. even if clinical trials demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of any of our product candidates for a specific disease and the necessary regulatory approvals are obtained, the commercial success of any of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products will depend upon, among other things, their acceptance by patients, the medical community, and third-party payers and on our and our collaborators' ability to successfully manufacture, market, and distribute those products in substantial commercial quantities or to establish and manage the required infrastructure to do so, including large-scale information technology systems and a large-scale distribution network. establishing and maintaining sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities are expensive and time-consuming. even if we obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates or new indications, if they are not successfully commercialized, we will not be able to recover the significant investment we have made in developing such products and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be severely harmed. the commercial success of our products may also be adversely affected by guidelines or recommendations to healthcare providers, administrators, payers, and patient communities that result in decreased use of our products. such guidelines or recommendations may be published not only by governmental agencies, but also professional societies, practice management groups, private foundations, and other interested parties. our product candidates are delivered either by intravenous infusion or by intravitreal or subcutaneous injections, which are generally less well received by patients than tablet or capsule delivery and this could adversely affect the commercial success of those products if they receive marketing approval. we are dependent upon a small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of or significant reduction in sales to these customers would adversely affect our results of operations. we sell eylea and libtayo in the united states to several distributors and specialty pharmacies. under this distribution model, the distributors and specialty pharmacies generally take physical delivery of product and generally sell the product directly to healthcare providers. for the year ended december 31, 2018, product sales to two customers accounted on a combined basis for 92% of our total gross product revenue. we expect this significant customer concentration to continue for the foreseeable future. our ability to generate and grow sales of eylea and libtayo will depend, in part, on the extent to which our distributors and specialty pharmacies are able to provide adequate distribution of eylea and libtayo to healthcare providers. although we believe we can find additional distributors, if necessary, our revenue during any period of disruption could suffer and we might incur additional costs. in addition, these customers are responsible for a significant portion of our net trade accounts receivable balances. the loss of any large customer, a significant reduction in sales we make to them, any cancellation of orders they have made with us, or any failure to pay for the products we have shipped to them could adversely affect our results of operations. 36 table of contents if we need to establish commercial capabilities outside the united states and are unable to do so, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be adversely affected. we have limited commercial capabilities outside the united states and do not currently have an organization for the sales, marketing, and distribution of marketed products outside the united states. there may be circumstances in which we need to establish commercial capabilities outside the united states, including because we decide to exercise our option to co-promote a product outside the united states or commercialize a particular product independently; we are unable to find an appropriate collaborator; or our existing collaborator decides not to opt in, decides to opt out, or breaches its obligations to us with respect to a particular product. in order to commercialize any products outside the united states, we must build our sales, marketing, distribution, managerial, and other non-technical capabilities in the relevant markets or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services, which would likely be expensive and time consuming and could delay product launch in one or more markets outside the united states. we cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully develop commercial capabilities outside the united states within an acceptable time frame or at all. these and other difficulties relating to commercializing our products outside the united states may severely harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. risks related to maintaining approval of our marketed products and the development and obtaining approval of our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products if we do not maintain regulatory approval for our marketed products, and obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, we will not be able to market or sell them, which would materially and negatively impact our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. we cannot sell or market products without regulatory approval. if we do not maintain regulatory approval for our marketed products, and obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates or new indications of our marketed products (or are materially delayed in doing so), the value of our company and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition will be materially harmed. obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval for drug products is costly, time-consuming, and highly uncertain. in the united states, we must obtain and maintain approval from the fda for each drug we intend to sell. obtaining fda approval is typically a lengthy and expensive process, and approval is highly uncertain. we cannot predict with certainty if or when we might submit for regulatory approval for any of our product candidates currently under development. any approvals we may obtain may not cover all of the clinical indications for which we are seeking approval. also, an approval might contain significant limitations in the form of narrow indications, warnings, precautions, or contra-indications with respect to conditions of use. the fda has substantial discretion in the approval process (including with respect to setting specific conditions for submission) and may either refuse to accept an application for substantive review or may form the opinion after review of an application that the application is insufficient to allow approval of a product candidate. if the fda does not accept our application for review or approve our application, it may require that we conduct additional clinical, preclinical, or manufacturing validation studies and submit the data before it will reconsider our application. depending on the extent of these or any other studies that might be required, approval of any applications that we submit may be delayed significantly, or we may be required to expend more resources. it is also possible that any such additional studies, if performed and completed, may not be considered sufficient by the fda to make our applications approvable. if any of these outcomes occur, we may be forced to delay or abandon our applications for approval. in certain instances (such as when we use a biomarker-based test to identify and enroll specific patients in a clinical trial), regulatory approval of a companion diagnostic to our therapeutic product candidate may be required as a condition to regulatory approval of the therapeutic product candidate. we may need to rely on third parties to provide companion diagnostics for use with our product candidates. such third parties may be unable or unwilling on terms acceptable to us to provide such companion diagnostics or to obtain timely regulatory approval of such companion diagnostics, which could negatively impact regulatory approval of our product candidates or may result in increased development costs or delays. the fda may also require us to conduct additional clinical trials after granting approval of a product. its ability to do so has been enhanced by the food and drug administration amendments act of 2007, pursuant to which the fda has the explicit authority to require postmarketing studies (also referred to as post-approval or phase 4 studies), labeling changes based on new safety information, and compliance with fda-approved risk evaluation and mitigation strategies. post-approval studies, whether conducted by us or by others and whether mandated by regulatory agencies or voluntary, and other data about our marketed products (or data about products similar to our marketed products that implicate an entire class of products or are perceived to do so) may result in changes in product labeling, restrictions on use, product withdrawal or recall, loss of approval, or lower sales of our products. 37 table of contents according to the fda policies under the prescription drug user fee act, the fda system of review times for new drugs includes standard review and priority review. standard review can be accomplished in a 10-month time frame from the time the application is filed by the fda (filing date), which typically occurs approximately 60 days following submission of the application by the applicant. the fda has stated the goal to act on 90% of standard new molecular entity (nme) new drug application (nda) and original bla submissions within 10 months of the filing date. a priority review designation is given to drugs that treat a serious condition and offer major advances in treatment, or provide a treatment where no adequate therapy exists, and may also be afforded to a human drug application based on a priority review voucher. the fda has stated the goal to act on 90% of priority nme nda and original bla submissions within six months of the filing date. however, the fda's review goals are subject to change and the duration of the fda's review depends on a number of factors, including the number and types of other applications that are submitted to the fda around the same time period or are pending. even if any of our applications receives a priority review designation, we may not ultimately be able to obtain approval of our application within a time frame consistent with the fda's stated review goals or at all, and such designation may not actually lead to a faster development or regulatory review or approval process. the fda enforces good clinical practices (gcps) and other regulations through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, clinical research organizations (cros), principal investigators, and trial sites. if we or any of the third parties conducting our clinical studies are determined to have failed to fully comply with gcps, the study protocol or applicable regulations, the clinical data generated in those studies may be deemed unreliable. this could result in non-approval of our product candidates by the fda, or we or the fda may decide to conduct additional inspections or require additional clinical studies, which would delay our development programs, require us to incur additional costs, and could substantially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. before approving a new drug or biologic product, the fda requires that the facilities at which the product will be manufactured or advanced through the supply chain be in compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cgmp, requirements and regulations governing the manufacture, shipment, and storage of the product. these cgmp requirements and regulations are not prescriptive instructions on how to manufacture products, but rather a series of principles that must be observed during manufacturing; as a result, their implementation may not be clearly delineated and may present a challenging task. manufacturing product candidates in compliance with these regulatory requirements is complex, time-consuming, and expensive. to be successful, our products must be manufactured in compliance with regulatory requirements, and at competitive costs. if we or any of our product collaborators, or third-party manufacturers, product packagers, labelers, or other parties performing steps in the supply chain are unable to maintain regulatory compliance, the fda can impose regulatory sanctions, including, among other things, refusal to approve a pending application for a new drug or biologic product, or revocation of a pre-existing approval. for additional information, see "risks related to manufacturing and supply - our or our collaborators' failure to meet the stringent requirements of governmental regulation in the manufacture of drug products or product candidates could result in incurring substantial remedial costs, delays in the development or approval of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products and/or in their commercial launch if they obtain regulatory approval, and a reduction in sales. " our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed as a result of noncompliance with the requirements and regulations described in this paragraph. in addition to the fda and other regulatory agency regulations in the united states, we are subject to a variety of foreign regulatory requirements governing human clinical trials, manufacturing, marketing and approval of drugs, and commercial sale and distribution of drugs in foreign countries. the foreign regulatory approval process is similarly likely to be a lengthy and expensive process, the result of which is highly uncertain, and foreign regulatory requirements include all of the risks associated with fda approval as well as country specific regulations. in addition, actions by a regulatory agency in a country or region with respect to a product candidate may have an impact on the approval process for that product candidate in another country or region. foreign regulatory authorities often also have the authority to require post-approval studies, which involve various risks similar to those described above. whether or not we obtain fda approval for a product in the united states, we must obtain approval of the product by the comparable regulatory authorities in foreign countries before we can conduct clinical trials of or market that product or any other product in those countries. preclinical and clinical studies required for our product candidates and new indications of our marketed products are expensive and time-consuming, and their outcome is highly uncertain. if any such studies are delayed or yield unfavorable results, regulatory approval for our product candidates or new indications of our marketed products may be delayed or become unobtainable. as described above, we must conduct extensive testing of our product candidates and new indications of our marketed products before we can obtain regulatory approval to market and sell them. we need to conduct both preclinical animal testing and human clinical trials. conducting such studies is a lengthy, time-consuming, and expensive process. these tests and trials may not achieve favorable results for many reasons, including, among others, failure of the product candidate to demonstrate safety or efficacy, the development of serious or life-threatening adverse events (or side effects) caused by or connected with exposure to the product 38 table of contents candidate (or prior or concurrent exposure to other products or product candidates), difficulty in enrolling and maintaining subjects in a clinical trial, lack of sufficient supplies of the product candidate or comparator drug, and the failure of clinical investigators, trial monitors, contractors, consultants, or trial subjects to comply with the trial plan, protocol, or applicable regulations related to the fda's good laboratory practices (glps) or gcps. a clinical trial may fail because it did not include and retain a sufficient number of patients to detect the endpoint being measured or reach statistical significance. a clinical trial may also fail because the dose(s) of the investigational drug included in the trial were either too low or too high to determine the optimal effect of the investigational drug in the disease setting. we will need to reevaluate any drug candidate that does not test favorably and either conduct new studies, which are expensive and time consuming, or abandon that drug development program. if preclinical testing yields unfavorable results, product candidates may not advance to clinical trials. the failure of clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of our clinical candidates for the desired indication(s) would preclude the successful development of those candidates for such indication(s), in which event our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed. furthermore, some of our products and product candidates (such as libtayo and dupixent) are studied in combination with agents and treatments developed by us or our collaborators. there may be additional risks and unforeseen safety issues resulting from such combined administration, any of which may materially adversely impact clinical development of these product candidates and our ability to obtain regulatory approval. successful development of our current and future product candidates is uncertain. only a small minority of all research and development programs ultimately result in commercially successful drugs. clinical trials may not demonstrate statistically sufficient effectiveness and safety to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for these product candidates in these indications. many companies in the biopharmaceutical industry, including our company, have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, even after promising results have been obtained in earlier trials. in a number of instances, we have terminated the development of product candidates due to a lack of or only modest effectiveness, and clinical trials evaluating our product candidates failed to meet the relevant endpoints. for example, in august 2017, we reported that the phase 3 study evaluating suptavumab, an antibody to rsv, did not meet its primary endpoint of preventing medically-attended rsv infections in infants; as a result, we have discontinued further clinical development of this antibody. moreover, even if we obtain positive results from preclinical testing or clinical trials, we may not achieve the same success in future trials, or the fda and analogous foreign regulatory authorities may deem the results insufficient for an approval. many of our clinical trials are conducted under the oversight of independent data monitoring committees (dmcs). these independent oversight bodies are made up of external experts who review the progress of ongoing clinical trials, including available safety and efficacy data, and make recommendations concerning a trial's continuation, modification, or termination based on interim, unblinded data. any of our ongoing clinical trials may be discontinued or amended in response to recommendations made by responsible dmcs based on their review of such interim trial results. for example, in april 2018, the dmc monitoring the ongoing safety and efficacy of our phase 3 clinical trials of fasinumab recommended that the higher dose-regimens be discontinued based on the risk-benefit assessment and that the program may continue with lower dose-regimens of fasinumab. as a result, the ongoing osteoarthritis trials have been modified accordingly and we discontinued dosing patients in the clinical study of fasinumab in chronic low back pain in patients with concomitant osteoarthritis of the knee and hip since this study was using only higher doses. the recommended termination or material modification of any of our ongoing late-stage clinical trials by a dmc could negatively impact the future development of our product candidate(s), and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed. we are studying our antibody-based product candidates in a wide variety of indications in clinical trials. many of these trials are exploratory studies designed to evaluate the safety profile of these compounds and to identify what diseases and uses, if any, are best suited for these product candidates. these product candidates may not demonstrate the requisite efficacy and/or safety profile to support continued development for some or all of the indications that are being, or are planned to be, studied, which would diminish our clinical "pipeline" and could negatively affect our future prospects and the value of our company. 39 table of contents serious complications or side effects in connection with the use of our products and in clinical trials for our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products could cause our regulatory approvals to be revoked or limited or lead to delay or discontinuation of development of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, which could severely harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. during the conduct of clinical trials, patients report changes in their health, including illnesses, injuries, and discomforts, to their study doctor. often, it is not possible to determine whether or not the drug candidate being studied caused these conditions. various illnesses, injuries, and discomforts have been reported from time-to-time during clinical trials of our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products. it is possible that as we test our drug candidates or new indications in larger, longer, and more extensive clinical programs, or as use of these drugs becomes more widespread if they receive regulatory approval, illnesses, injuries, and discomforts that were observed in earlier trials, as well as conditions that did not occur or went undetected in previous trials, will be reported by patients. many times, side effects are only detectable after investigational drugs are tested in large-scale, phase 3 clinical trials or, in some cases, after they are made available to patients after approval. if additional clinical experience indicates that any of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products has many side effects or causes serious or life-threatening side effects, the development of the product candidate may be delayed or fail, or, if the product candidate has received regulatory approval, such approval may be revoked, which would severely harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. with respect to eylea, there are many potential safety concerns associated with significant blockade of vegf that may limit our ability to further successfully develop and/or commercialize eylea. these serious and potentially life-threatening risks, based on clinical and preclinical experience of vegf inhibitors, include bleeding, intestinal perforation, hypertension, proteinuria, congestive heart failure, heart attack, and stroke. other vegf blockers have reported side effects that became evident only after large-scale trials or after marketing approval when large numbers of patients were treated. there are risks inherent in the intravitreal administration of drugs like aflibercept (such as intraocular inflammation (ioi), sterile and culture positive endophthalmitis, corneal decomposition, retinal detachment, and retinal tear), which can cause injury to the eye and other complications. the side effects previously reported for eylea include conjunctival hemorrhage, macular degeneration, eye pain, retinal hemorrhage, and vitreous floaters. in addition, commercialization of eylea or our other products may be impacted by actions of third parties on which we rely, such as manufacturers of syringes or other devices used in the administration of our products. for example, in february 2018, we issued a letter to healthcare professionals providing updated guidance relating to reports of ioi following eylea injections. in this letter, we noted that while our review did not identify any association of ioi rates with the eylea drug itself, an association was seen with certain batches of the syringe that were included in specific lots of final packaged eylea kits. these and other complications or issues or side effects could harm further development and/or commercialization of eylea. dupixent is being studied in additional indications, including atopic dermatitis in pediatric patients, crswnp, and eosinophilic esophagitis. there is no guarantee that marketing approval of dupixent in any of these indications will be successfully obtained. the side effects previously reported for dupixent include hypersensitivity reactions, conjunctivitis and keratitis, injection-site reactions, eye and eyelid inflammation, and cold sores. these and other complications or side effects could harm further development and/or commercialization of dupixent. libtayo is also being studied in additional indications, as shown in the table under part i, item 1. "business - programs in clinical development." there is no guarantee that marketing approval of libtayo in any of these indications will be successfully obtained. the side effects previously reported for libtayo include certain immune-mediated adverse reactions, such as pneumonitis, colitis, hepatitis, endocrinopathies, nephritis, and dermatologic reactions, as well as infusion-related reactions, cellulitis, sepsis, pneumonia, urinary tract infection, fatigue, rash, and diarrhea. there also are risks inherent in subcutaneous injections (which are used for administering our antibody-based products and product candidates, including dupixent, praluent, and kevzara), such as injection-site reactions (including redness, itching, swelling, pain, and tenderness) and other side effects. these and other complications or side effects could harm further development and/or commercialization of our antibody-based products and product candidates, including dupixent, praluent, or kevzara. our product candidates in development are recombinant proteins that could cause an immune response, resulting in the creation of harmful or neutralizing antibodies against the therapeutic protein. in addition to the safety, efficacy, manufacturing, and regulatory hurdles faced by our product candidates, the administration of recombinant proteins frequently causes an immune response, resulting in the creation of antibodies against the therapeutic protein. the antibodies can have no effect or can totally neutralize the effectiveness of the protein, or require that higher doses be used to obtain a therapeutic effect. in some cases, the antibody can cross-react with the patient's own proteins, resulting in an "auto-immune" type disease. whether antibodies will be created can often not be predicted from preclinical or clinical experiments, and their detection or appearance is often delayed, so neutralizing antibodies may be detected at a later date, in some cases even after pivotal clinical trials have been completed. 40 table of contents we may be unable to formulate or manufacture our product candidates in a way that is suitable for clinical or commercial use, which would delay or prevent continued development of such candidates and/or receipt of regulatory approval or commercial sale, which could materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. if we are unable to continue to develop suitable product formulations or manufacturing processes to support large-scale clinical testing of our product candidates, including our antibody-based product candidates, we may be unable to supply necessary materials for our clinical trials, which would delay or prevent the development of our product candidates. similarly, if we are unable, directly or through our collaborators or third parties, to supply sufficient quantities of our products or develop formulations of our product candidates suitable for commercial use, we will be unable to obtain regulatory approval for those product candidates. many of our products are intended to be used and, if approved, our product candidates may be used in combination with drug-delivery devices, which may result in additional regulatory and other risks. many of our products (including dupixent, praluent, and kevzara) are used and, if approved, some of our product candidates may be used in combination with a drug-delivery device, including a pre-filled syringe, patch pump, auto-injector, or other delivery system. the success of our product candidates may depend to a significant extent on the performance of such devices, some of which may be novel or comprised of complex components. given the increased complexity of the review process when approval of the product and device is sought under a single marketing application and the additional risks resulting from a product candidate's designation as a combination product discussed below, our product candidates used with such drug-delivery devices may be substantially delayed in receiving regulatory approval or may not be approved at all. the fda review process and criteria for such applications is not a well-established area, which could also lead to delays in the approval process. in addition, some of these drug-delivery devices may be provided by single-source, third-party providers or our collaborators. in any such case, we may be dependent on the sustained cooperation of those third-party providers or collaborators to supply the devices; to conduct the studies required for approval or clearance by the applicable regulatory agencies; and to continue to meet the applicable regulatory and other requirements to maintain approval or clearance once it has been received. failure to successfully develop or supply the devices, delays in or failure of the studies conducted by us, our collaborators, or third-party providers, or failure of our company, our collaborators, or the third-party providers to obtain or maintain regulatory approval or clearance of the devices could result in increased development costs, delays in or failure to obtain regulatory approval, and associated delays in a product candidate reaching the market. loss of regulatory approval or clearance of a device that is used with our product may also result in the removal of our product from the market. further, failure to successfully develop or supply these devices, or to gain or maintain their approval, could adversely affect sales of the related products. in the united states, each component of a combination product is subject to the requirements established by the fda for that type of component, whether a drug, biologic, or device. the determination whether a product is a combination product or two separately regulated products is made by the fda on a case-by-case basis. although a single marketing application is generally sufficient for the approval, clearance, or licensure of a combination product, the fda may determine that separate marketing applications are necessary. in addition, submitting separate marketing applications may be necessary to receive some benefit that accrues only from approval under a particular type of application. this could significantly increase the resources and time required to bring a particular combination product to market. 41 table of contents risks related to intellectual property and market exclusivity if we cannot protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets, or our patents or other means of defending our intellectual property are insufficient to protect our proprietary rights, our business and competitive position will be harmed. our business requires using sensitive and proprietary technology and other information that we protect as trade secrets. we seek to prevent improper disclosure of these trade secrets through confidentiality agreements. if our trade secrets are improperly disclosed, by our current or former employees, our collaborators, or otherwise, it would help our competitors and adversely affect our business. we will be able to protect our proprietary rights only to the extent that our proprietary technologies and other information are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. the patent position of biotechnology companies, including our company, involves complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, enforceability cannot be predicted with certainty. our patents may be challenged, invalidated, held to be unenforceable, or circumvented. patent applications filed outside the united states may be challenged by other parties, for example, by filing third-party observations that argue against patentability or an opposition. such opposition proceedings are increasingly common in the eu and are costly to defend. for example, our european patent no. 2,264,163 is the subject of opposition proceedings in the european patent office (epo) (currently pending before its boards of appeal), as described in note 17 to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. we have pending patent applications in the united states patent and trademark office (uspto), the epo, and the patent offices of other foreign jurisdictions, and it is likely that we will need to defend patents from challenges by others from time to time in the future. certain of our u.s. patents may also be challenged by parties who file a request for post-grant review or inter partes review under the america invents act of 2011 or ex parte reexamination. post-grant proceedings are increasingly common in the united states and are costly to defend. our patent rights may not provide us with a proprietary position or competitive advantages against competitors. furthermore, even if the outcome is favorable to us, the enforcement of our intellectual property rights can be extremely expensive and time consuming. we also currently hold issued trademark registrations and have trademark applications pending in the united states and other jurisdictions, any of which may be the subject of a governmental or third-party objection, which could prevent the maintenance or issuance of the trademark. as our products mature, our reliance on our trademarks to differentiate us from our competitors increases and as a result, if we are unable to prevent third parties from adopting, registering, or using trademarks that infringe, dilute or otherwise violate our trademark rights, our business could be adversely affected. we may be restricted in our development, manufacturing, and/or commercialization activities by patents or other proprietary rights of others, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed such patents or rights. our commercial success depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of others (including those relating to trademarks, copyrights, and trade secrets). other parties may allege that they own blocking patents to our products in clinical development or even to products that have received regulatory approval and are being or have been commercialized, either because they claim to hold proprietary rights to the composition of a product or the way it is manufactured or the way it is used. moreover, other parties may allege that they have blocking patents to antibody-based products made using our velocimmune technology, or any other of our technologies, either because of the way the antibodies are discovered or produced or because of a proprietary composition covering an antibody or the antibody's target. we have been in the past, are currently, and may in the future be involved in patent litigation and other proceedings involving patents and other intellectual property. for example, we and/or our collaborator sanofi are currently party to patent infringement proceedings initiated by amgen against us and sanofi relating to praluent and patent infringement proceedings relating to dupixent, as described in note 17 to our consolidated financial statements. in addition, we are currently party to patent infringement proceedings initiated by us relating to our patents that concern genetically altered mice capable of producing chimeric antibodies that are part human and part mouse, as described in note 17 to our consolidated financial statements. we are aware of patents and pending patent applications owned by others that respectively claim antibodies to il-4r and methods of treating conditions including atopic dermatitis and asthma with such antibodies; antibodies to il-6r and methods of treating conditions including rheumatoid arthritis with such antibodies; antibodies to pcsk9 and methods of treating hypercholesterolemia with such antibodies; and antibodies to pd-1 and methods of treating cancer with such antibodies. in addition to dupixent (dupilumab), praluent (alirocumab), kevzara (sarilumab), and libtayo (cemiplimab), our late-stage antibody-based pipeline includes fasinumab, an antibody to ngf, and evinacumab, an antibody to angptl3. although we do not believe that any of our products or our late-stage antibody-based product candidates infringes any valid claim in these patents or patent applications, these other parties could initiate lawsuits for patent infringement and assert that their patents are valid and cover our products or our late-stage antibody-based product candidates, similar to the patent infringement proceedings referred to above. further, we are aware of a number of patent applications of others that, if granted with claims as currently drafted, may cover our current or planned activities. it could be determined that our products and/or actions in manufacturing or selling our products or product candidates infringe such patents. 42 table of contents patent holders could assert claims against us for damages and seek to prevent us from manufacturing, selling, or developing our products or product candidates, and a court may find that we are infringing validly issued patents of others. in the event that the manufacture, use, or sale of any of our products or product candidates infringes on the patents or violates other proprietary rights of others, we may be prevented from pursuing product development, manufacturing, and commercialization of those drugs and may be required to pay costly damages. in addition, in the event that we assert our patent rights against other parties that we believe are infringing our patent rights, such parties may challenge the validity of our patents and we may become the target of litigation, which may result in an outcome that is unfavorable to us. any of these adverse developments may materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. in any event, legal disputes are likely to be costly and time consuming to defend. we seek to obtain licenses to patents when, in our judgment, such licenses are needed or advisable. for example, in august 2018, we and sanofi entered into a license agreement with bristol-myers squibb, e. r. squibb &amp; sons, and ono pharmaceutical to obtain a license under certain patents owned and/or exclusively licensed by one or more of these parties that includes the right to develop and sell libtayo, as discussed further under part i, item 1. "business - marketed products - additional information on 2018 developments." if any licenses are required, we may not be able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. the failure to obtain any such license could prevent us from developing or commercializing any one or more of our products or product candidates, which could severely harm our business. loss or limitation of patent rights, and new regulatory pathways for biosimilar competition, could reduce the duration of market exclusivity for our products. in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, the majority of an innovative product's commercial value is usually realized during the period in which it has market exclusivity. in the united states and some other countries, when market exclusivity expires and generic versions of a product are approved and marketed, there usually are very substantial and rapid declines in the product's sales. if our late-stage product candidates or other clinical candidates are approved for marketing in the united states or elsewhere, market exclusivity for those products will generally be based upon patent rights and/or certain regulatory forms of exclusivity. as described above under " if we cannot protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets, or our patents or other means of defending our intellectual property are insufficient to protect our proprietary rights, our business and competitive position will be harmed, " the scope and enforceability of our patent rights may vary from country to country. the failure to obtain patent and other intellectual property rights, or limitations on the use, or the loss, of such rights could materially harm us. absent patent protection or regulatory exclusivity for our products, it is possible, both in the united states and elsewhere, that generic, biosimilar, and/or interchangeable versions of those products may be approved and marketed, which would likely result in substantial and rapid reductions in revenues from sales of those products. under the ppaca, there is an abbreviated path in the united states for regulatory approval of products that are demonstrated to be "biosimilar" or "interchangeable" with an fda-approved biological product. the ppaca provides a regulatory mechanism that allows for fda approval of biologic drugs that are similar to innovative drugs on the basis of less extensive data than is required by a full bla. under this regulation, an application for approval of a biosimilar may be filed four years after approval of the innovator product. however, qualified innovative biological products receive 12 years of regulatory exclusivity, meaning that the fda may not approve a biosimilar version until 12 years after the innovative biological product was first approved by the fda. however, the term of regulatory exclusivity may not remain at 12 years in the united states and could be shortened if, for example, the ppaca is amended. a number of jurisdictions outside of the united states have also established abbreviated pathways for regulatory approval of biological products that are biosimilar to earlier versions of biological products. for example, the eu has had an established regulatory pathway for biosimilars since 2005. the increased likelihood of biosimilar competition has increased the risk of loss of innovators' market exclusivity. due to this risk, and uncertainties regarding patent protection, if our late-stage product candidates or other clinical candidates are approved for marketing, it is not possible to predict the length of market exclusivity for any particular product with certainty based solely on the expiration of the relevant patent(s) or the current forms of regulatory exclusivity. it is also not possible to predict changes in united states regulatory law that might reduce biological product regulatory exclusivity. the loss of market exclusivity for a product would likely materially and negatively affect revenues from product sales of that product and thus our financial results and condition. 43 table of contents risks related to manufacturing and supply we rely on limited internal and contracted manufacturing and supply chain capacity, which could result in our being unable to continue to successfully commercialize eylea, to successfully commercialize dupixent, praluent, kevzara, and libtayo and, if approved, our product candidates or other indications for our marketed products, and to advance our clinical pipeline. our manufacturing facilities would be inadequate to produce the active pharmaceutical ingredients of (a) our current marketed products, including eylea, dupixent, praluent, kevzara, and libtayo, and (b) our antibody-based product candidates in sufficient clinical quantities if our clinical pipeline advances as planned. in addition to expanding our internal capacity, we intend to continue to rely on our collaborators, and may also rely on contract manufacturers, to produce commercial quantities of drug material needed for commercialization of our products. as we increase our production in anticipation of potential regulatory approval for our late-stage antibody-based product candidates, our current manufacturing capacity will likely not be sufficient, and our dependence on our collaborators and/or contract manufacturers may increase, to produce adequate quantities of drug material for both commercial and clinical purposes. we rely entirely on other parties and our collaborators for filling and finishing services. generally, in order for other parties to perform any step in the manufacturing and supply chain, we must transfer technology to the other party, which can be time consuming and may not be successfully accomplished without considerable cost and expense, or at all. we will have to depend on these other parties to perform effectively on a timely basis and to comply with regulatory requirements. if for any reason they are unable to do so, and as a result we are unable to directly or through other parties manufacture and supply sufficient commercial and clinical quantities of our products on acceptable terms, or if we should encounter delays or other difficulties in our relationships with our collaborators, contract manufacturers, or other parties involved in our supply chain which adversely affect the timely manufacture and supply of our products or product candidates, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed. expanding our manufacturing capacity will be costly and we may be unsuccessful in doing so in a timely manner, which could delay or prevent the launch and successful commercialization of our marketed products and late-stage product candidates or other indications for our marketed products if they are approved for marketing and could jeopardize our current and future clinical development programs. we own an approximately 445,000-square-foot facility in limerick, ireland, which we purchased and subsequently renovated to expand our manufacturing capacity and support our global supply chain. in the future, we may lease, operate, purchase, or construct additional facilities to conduct expanded manufacturing activities. expanding our manufacturing capacity to supply commercial quantities of the active pharmaceutical ingredients for our marketed products and our late-stage product candidates if they are approved for marketing, and to supply clinical drug material to support the continued growth of our clinical programs, will require substantial additional expenditures and various regulatory approvals and permits. further, we will need to hire and train significant numbers of employees and managerial personnel to staff our expanding manufacturing and supply chain operations. start-up costs can be large, and scale-up entails significant risks related to process development and manufacturing yields. in addition, we may face difficulties or delays in developing or acquiring the necessary production equipment and technology to manufacture sufficient quantities of our product candidates at reasonable costs and in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. the fda and analogous foreign regulatory authorities must determine that our existing and any expanded manufacturing facilities comply, or continue to comply, with cgmp requirements for both clinical and commercial production and license them, or continue to license them, accordingly, and such facilities must also comply with applicable environmental, safety, and other governmental permitting requirements. we may not successfully expand or establish sufficient manufacturing capabilities or manufacture our products economically or in compliance with cgmps and other regulatory requirements, and we and our collaborators may not be able to build or procure additional capacity in the required timeframe to meet commercial demand for our late-stage product candidates if they receive regulatory approval, and to continue to meet the requirements of our clinical programs. this would interfere with our efforts to successfully commercialize our marketed products, including eylea, dupixent, praluent, kevzara, and libtayo, and could also delay or require us to discontinue one or more of our clinical development programs. as a result, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition could be materially harmed. our ability to manufacture products may be impaired if any of our or our collaborators' manufacturing activities, or the activities of other third parties involved in our manufacture and supply chain, are found to infringe patents of others. our ability to continue to manufacture products in our rensselaer, new york and limerick, ireland facilities and at additional facilities (if any) in the future, the ability of our collaborators to manufacture products at their facilities, and our ability to utilize other third parties to produce our products, to supply raw materials or other products, or to perform fill/finish services or other steps in our manufacture and supply chain, depends on our and their ability to operate without infringing the patents or other intellectual property rights of others. other parties may allege that our or our collaborators' manufacturing activities, or the activities of other third parties involved in our manufacture and supply chain (which may be located in jurisdictions outside the united states), infringe patents or other intellectual property rights. a judicial or regulatory decision in favor of one or more parties making such allegations could directly or indirectly preclude the manufacture of our products to which those intellectual property rights 44 table of contents apply on a temporary or permanent basis, which could materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. if sales of eylea, dupixent, praluent, kevzara, or libtayo do not meet the levels currently expected, or if the launch of any of our product candidates is delayed or unsuccessful, we may face costs related to excess inventory or unused capacity at our manufacturing facilities and at the facilities of third parties or our collaborators. we have large-scale manufacturing operations in rensselaer, new york and limerick, ireland. we use our manufacturing facilities primarily to produce bulk product for commercial supply of our marketed products and clinical and preclinical candidates for ourselves and our collaborations. we also plan to use such facilities to produce bulk product for commercial supply of new indications of our marketed products and new product candidates if they are approved for marketing. if our clinical candidates are discontinued or their clinical development is delayed, if the launch of new indications for our marketed products or new product candidates is delayed or does not occur, or if such products are launched and the launch is unsuccessful or the product is subsequently recalled or marketing approval is rescinded, we may have to absorb one hundred percent of related overhead costs and inefficiencies, as well as similar costs of third-party contract manufacturers performing services for us. in addition, if we or our collaborators experience excess inventory, it may be necessary to write down or write off such excess inventory or incur an impairment charge with respect to the facility where such product is manufactured, which could adversely affect our operating results. third-party service or supply failures, or other failures, business interruptions, or other disasters affecting our manufacturing facilities in rensselaer, new york and limerick, ireland, the manufacturing facilities of our collaborators, or the facilities of any other party participating in the supply chain, would adversely affect our ability to supply our products. bulk drug materials are currently manufactured at our manufacturing facilities in rensselaer, new york and limerick, ireland, as well as at our collaborator facilities. we and our collaborators would be unable to manufacture these materials if the relevant facility were to cease production due to regulatory requirements or actions, business interruptions, labor shortages or disputes, contaminations, fire, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, or other problems. many of our products and product candidates are very difficult to manufacture. as our products and product candidates are biologics, they require processing steps that are more difficult than those required for most chemical pharmaceuticals. accordingly, multiple steps are needed to control the manufacturing processes. problems with these manufacturing processes, even minor deviations from the normal process or from the materials used in the manufacturing process (which may not be detectable by us or our collaborators in a timely manner), could lead to product defects or manufacturing failures, resulting in lot failures, product recalls, product liability claims, and insufficient inventory. also, the complexity of our manufacturing process may make it difficult, time-consuming, and expensive to transfer our technology to our collaborators or contract manufacturers. also, certain raw materials or other products necessary for the manufacture and formulation of our marketed products and product candidates, some of which are difficult to source, are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. in addition, we rely on certain third parties or our collaborators to perform filling, finishing, distribution, laboratory testing, and other services related to the manufacture of our marketed products and product candidates, and to supply various raw materials and other products. we would be unable to obtain these raw materials, other products, or services for an indeterminate period of time if any of these third parties were to cease or interrupt production or otherwise fail to supply these materials, products, or services to us for any reason, including due to regulatory requirements or actions (including recalls), adverse financial developments at or affecting the supplier, failure by the supplier to comply with cgmps, contaminations, business interruptions, or labor shortages or disputes. in any such circumstances, we may not be able to engage a backup or alternative supplier or service provider in a timely manner or at all. this, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our or our collaborators' ability to manufacture or supply marketed products and product candidates, which could materially and adversely affect our business and future prospects. certain of the raw materials required in the manufacture and the formulation of our product candidates may be derived from biological sources, including mammalian tissues, bovine serum, and human serum albumin. there are certain european regulatory restrictions on using these biological source materials. if we or our collaborators are required to substitute for these sources to comply with european regulatory requirements, our clinical development or commercial activities may be delayed or interrupted. 45 table of contents our or our collaborators' failure to meet the stringent requirements of governmental regulation in the manufacture of drug products or product candidates could result in incurring substantial remedial costs, delays in the development or approval of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products and/or in their commercial launch if they obtain regulatory approval, and a reduction in sales. we and our collaborators and other third-party providers are required to maintain compliance with cgmps, and are subject to inspections by the fda or comparable agencies in other jurisdictions to confirm such compliance. changes of suppliers or modifications of methods of manufacturing may require amending our application(s) to the fda or such comparable foreign agencies and acceptance of the change by the fda or such comparable foreign agencies prior to release of product(s). because we produce multiple products and product candidates at our facilities in rensselaer, new york and limerick, ireland, there are increased risks associated with cgmp compliance. our inability, or the inability of our collaborators and third-party fill/finish or other service providers, to demonstrate ongoing cgmp compliance could require us to engage in lengthy and expensive remediation efforts, withdraw or recall product, halt or interrupt clinical trials, and/or interrupt commercial supply of any marketed products, and could also delay or prevent our obtaining regulatory approval for our late-stage product candidates or new indications for our marketed products. for example, on october 28, 2016, the fda issued a complete response letter relating to the bla for kevzara, which referred to certain deficiencies identified during a routine cgmp inspection of the sanofi fill-and-finish facility in le trait, france. while the bla for kevzara has since been approved by the fda, this delayed the fda approval of kevzara. any delay, interruption, or other issue that arises in the manufacture, fill/finish, packaging, or storage of any drug product or product candidate as a result of a failure of our facilities or the facilities or operations of our collaborators or other third parties to pass any regulatory agency inspection or maintain cgmp compliance could significantly impair our ability to develop, obtain approval for, and successfully commercialize our products, which would substantially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. any finding of non-compliance could also increase our costs, cause us to delay the development of our product candidates, result in delay in our obtaining, or our not obtaining, regulatory approval of product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, and cause us to lose revenue from any marketed products, which could be seriously detrimental to our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. regulatory and litigation risks if the testing or use of our products harms people, or is perceived to harm them even when such harm is unrelated to our products, we could be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims. the testing, manufacturing, marketing, and sale of drugs for use in people expose us to product liability risk. any informed consent or waivers obtained from people who enroll in our clinical trials may not protect us from liability or the cost of litigation. we may also be subject to claims by patients who use our approved products, or our product candidates if those product candidates receive regulatory approval and become commercially available, that they have been injured by a side effect associated with the drug. even in a circumstance in which we do not believe that an adverse event is related to our products or product candidates, the related investigation may be time consuming or inconclusive and may have a negative impact on our reputation or business. we may face product liability claims and be found responsible even if injury arises from the acts or omissions of third parties who provide fill/finish or other services. to the extent we maintain product liability insurance in relevant periods, such insurance may not cover all potential liabilities or may not completely cover any liability arising from any such litigation. moreover, in the future we may not have access to liability insurance or be able to maintain our insurance on acceptable terms. if we market and sell approved products in a way that violates federal or state healthcare laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. the fda regulates the marketing and promotion of our products, which must comply with the food, drug, and cosmetic act and applicable fda implementing standards. the fda's review of promotional activities includes healthcare provider-directed and direct-to-consumer advertising as well as sales representatives' communications. the fda may take enforcement action for promoting unapproved uses of a product or other violations of its advertising laws and regulations. in addition to fda and related regulatory requirements, we are subject to health care "fraud and abuse" laws, such as the federal false claims act, the anti-kickback provisions of the federal social security act, and other state and federal laws and regulations. federal and state anti-kickback laws prohibit, among other things, payments or other remuneration to induce or reward someone to purchase, prescribe, endorse, or recommend a product that is reimbursed under federal or state healthcare programs. if we provide payments or other remuneration to a healthcare professional to induce the prescribing of our products, we could face liability under state and federal anti-kickback laws. recently, the bipartisan budget act of 2018 increased the criminal and civil penalties that can be imposed for violating certain federal health care laws, including the federal anti-kickback statute. federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, such as allegedly 46 table of contents providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; reporting to pricing services inflated average wholesale prices that were then used by federal programs to set reimbursement rates; engaging in promotion for uses that the fda has not approved, known as off-label uses, that caused claims to be submitted to medicaid for non-covered off-label uses; and submitting inflated best price information to the medicaid rebate program. the majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payer. sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer's products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines, and imprisonment. even if it is determined that we have not violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which would harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the safe harbors, it is possible that some of our business activities could be challenged under one or more of such laws. as part of the ppaca, the federal government requires that pharmaceutical manufacturers record any "transfers of value" made to u.s. prescribers and certain other healthcare providers and teaching hospitals. information provided by companies is aggregated and posted annually on an "open payments" website, which is managed by cms, the agency responsible for implementing these disclosure requirements. we will need to continue to dedicate significant resources to comply with these requirements and to be prepared to comply with additional reporting obligations outside of the united states that may apply in the future. the ppaca also includes various provisions designed to strengthen fraud-and-abuse enforcement, such as increased funding for enforcement efforts and the lowering of the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback statute and criminal health care fraud statute such that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. in addition, several states have legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, file periodic reports with the state, or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, and other activities. many of these requirements and standards are new or uncertain, and the penalties for failure to comply with these requirements may be unclear. if we are found not to be in full compliance with these laws, we could face enforcement actions, fines, and other penalties, and could receive adverse publicity, which would harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. additionally, access to such data by fraud-and-abuse investigators and industry critics may draw scrutiny to our collaborations with reported entities. risks from the improper conduct of employees, agents, contractors, or collaborators could adversely affect our reputation and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. we cannot ensure that our compliance controls, policies, and procedures will in every instance protect us from acts committed by our employees, agents, contractors, or collaborators that would violate the laws or regulations of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including, without limitation, healthcare, employment, foreign corrupt practices, trade restrictions and sanctions, environmental, competition, and patient privacy and other privacy laws and regulations. such improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations, and monetary and injunctive penalties, and could adversely impact our ability to conduct business, operating results, and reputation. in particular, our business activities outside of the united states are subject to the foreign corrupt practices act, or fcpa, and similar anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws, regulations or rules of other countries in which we operate, including the u.k. bribery act. the fcpa generally prohibits offering, promising, giving, or authorizing others to give anything of value, either directly or indirectly, to a non-u.s. government official in order to influence official action, or otherwise obtain or retain business. the fcpa also requires public companies to make and keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect the transactions of the corporation and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls. our business is heavily regulated and therefore involves significant interaction with public officials, including officials of non-u.s. governments. additionally, in many other countries, the health care providers who prescribe pharmaceuticals are employed by their government, and the purchasers of pharmaceuticals are government entities; therefore, our dealings with these prescribers and purchasers are subject to regulation under the fcpa. recently the securities and exchange commission, or sec, and department of justice have increased their fcpa enforcement activities with respect to pharmaceutical companies. there is no certainty that all of our employees, agents, contractors, or collaborators, or those of our affiliates, will comply with all applicable laws and regulations, particularly given the high level of complexity of these laws. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, requirements to obtain export licenses, cessation of business activities in sanctioned countries, implementation of compliance programs, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business. any such violations could include prohibitions on our ability to offer our products in one or more countries and could materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. 47 table of contents our operations may involve hazardous materials and are subject to environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations. compliance with these laws and regulations is costly, and we may incur substantial liability arising from our activities involving the use of hazardous materials. as a biopharmaceutical company with significant research and development and manufacturing operations, we are subject to extensive environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations, including those governing the use of hazardous materials. our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of chemicals, infectious agents (such as viruses, bacteria, and fungi), radioactive compounds, and other hazardous materials. the cost of compliance with environmental, health, and safety regulations is substantial. if an accident involving these materials or an environmental discharge were to occur, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, or face regulatory actions, which could exceed our resources or insurance coverage. our business is subject to increasingly complex corporate governance, public disclosure, and accounting requirements and regulations that could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. we are subject to changing rules and regulations of various federal and state governmental authorities as well as the stock exchange on which our common stock is listed. these entities, including the sec and the nasdaq stock market llc, have issued a significant number of new and increasingly complex requirements and regulations over the course of the last several years and continue to develop additional requirements and regulations in response to laws enacted by congress, including the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and the dodd-frank wall street reform and protection act, or the dodd-frank act. there are significant corporate governance and executive compensation-related provisions in the dodd-frank act that expressly authorized or required the sec to adopt additional rules in these areas, a number of which have yet to be fully implemented. our efforts to comply with these requirements and regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, an increase in expenses and a diversion of management's time from other business activities. changes in laws and regulations affecting the healthcare industry could adversely affect our business. all aspects of our business, including research and development, manufacturing, marketing, pricing, sales, litigation, and intellectual property rights, are subject to extensive legislation and regulation. changes in applicable federal and state laws and agency regulations could have a materially negative impact on our business. these include: changes in the fda and foreign regulatory processes for new therapeutics that may delay or prevent the approval of any of our current or future product candidates; new laws, regulations, or judicial decisions related to healthcare availability or the payment for healthcare products and services, including prescription drugs, that would make it more difficult for us to market and sell products once they are approved by the fda or foreign regulatory agencies; changes in fda and foreign regulations that may require additional safety monitoring prior to or after the introduction of new products to market, which could materially increase our costs of doing business; and changes in fda and foreign cgmps that may make it more difficult and costly for us to maintain regulatory compliance and/or manufacture our marketed product and product candidates in accordance with cgmps. as described above, the ppaca and potential regulations thereunder easing the entry of competing follow-on biologics into the marketplace, other new legislation or implementation of existing statutory provisions on importation of lower-cost competing drugs from other jurisdictions, and legislation on comparative effectiveness research are examples of previously enacted and possible future changes in laws that could adversely affect our business. the current u.s. administration and congress could carry out significant changes in legislation, regulation, and government policy (including with respect to the possible repeal of all or portions of the ppaca, government reimbursement changes and drug price control measures, and changes in the existing treaty and trade relationships with other countries), as evidenced by statements and actions of president trump and certain members of congress (including those discussed above under "risks related to commercialization of our marketed products, product candidates, and new indications for our marketed products - sales of our marketed products are dependent on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payers, and changes to such reimbursement may materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition "). while it is not possible to predict whether and when any such changes will occur, changes in the laws, regulations, and policies governing the development and approval of our product candidates and the commercialization, importation, and reimbursement of our products could adversely affect our business. in addition, our development and commercialization activities could be harmed or delayed by a shutdown of the u.s. government, including the fda. for example, a prolonged shutdown may significantly delay the fda's ability to timely review and process any submissions we have filed or may file or cause other regulatory delays, which could materially and adversely affect our business. 48 table of contents risks associated with our operations outside of the united states could adversely affect our business. we have operations and conduct business outside the united states and we plan to expand these activities. consequently, we are, and will continue to be, subject to risks related to operating in foreign countries, which include: unfamiliar foreign laws or regulatory requirements or unexpected changes to those laws or requirements; other laws and regulatory requirements to which our business activities abroad are subject, such as the fcpa and the u.k. bribery act (discussed in greater detail above under " risks from the improper conduct of employees, agents, contractors, or collaborators could adversely affect our reputation and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition "); changes in the political or economic condition of a specific country or region; fluctuations in the value of foreign currency versus the u.s. dollar; tariffs, trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements, trade embargoes, and sanctions (including those administered by the office of foreign assets control of the u.s. department of the treasury), and other trade barriers; difficulties in attracting and retaining qualified personnel; and cultural differences in the conduct of business. for example, in a referendum held in the united kingdom, voters have approved an exit from the eu, commonly referred to as "brexit." as a result of the referendum, the british government has been negotiating the terms of the united kingdom's future relationship with the eu. we do not know to what extent brexit will impact the business and regulatory environment in the united kingdom, the rest of the eu, or other countries. we have large-scale manufacturing operations in limerick, ireland and have also established an office in the vicinity of london. changes impacting our ability to conduct business in the united kingdom or other eu countries, or changes to the regulatory regime applicable to our operations in those countries (such as with respect to the approval of our product candidates), may materially and adversely impact our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. we may incur additional tax liabilities related to our operations. we are subject to income tax in the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide tax liabilities, and our effective tax rate is derived from a combination of the applicable statutory rates in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. we record liabilities that involve significant management judgment for uncertain tax positions. the internal revenue service or other domestic or foreign taxing authorities may disagree with our interpretation of tax law as applied to the operations of regeneron and its subsidiaries or with the positions we may take with respect to particular tax issues on our tax returns. consequently, our reported effective tax rate and our after-tax cash flows may be materially and adversely affected by tax assessments or judgments in excess of accrued amounts we have estimated in preparing our financial statements. further, our effective tax rate may also be adversely affected by numerous other factors, including changes in the mix of our profitability from country to country, changes in tax laws and regulations, and tax effects of the accounting for stock-based compensation (which depend in part on the price of our stock and, therefore, are beyond our control). changes in tax laws of various jurisdictions in which we do business could also result from the base erosion and profits shifting, or beps, recommendations by the organization for economic co-operation and development. if these recommendations (or other changes in law) were adopted by the countries in which we do business, it could adversely affect our provision for income tax and our current rate. on december 22, 2017, president trump signed into law h.r.1., "an act to provide for reconciliation pursuant to titles ii and v of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2018" (also known as the "tax cuts and jobs act") (the act). most of the provisions of the act went into effect on january 1, 2018. the act includes a number of provisions that have impacted and are expected to continue to impact our operating results, cash flows, and financial condition, including reducing the u.s. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, changing the taxation of foreign earnings (including taxation of certain global intangible low-taxed income), allowing for a foreign-derived intangible income deduction and immediate expensing of qualified assets, repealing the deduction for domestic manufacturing, and imposing further limitations on the deductibility of executive compensation. we face potential liability related to the privacy of health information we obtain from clinical trials sponsored by us or our collaborators, from research institutions and our collaborators, and directly from individuals. most health care providers, including research institutions from which we or our collaborators obtain patient health information, are subject to privacy and security regulations promulgated under the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, or hipaa, as amended by the health information technology for economic and clinical health act. for example, as part of our human genetics initiative, our wholly-owned subsidiary, regeneron genetics center llc, has entered into collaborations with research institutions, including the geisinger health system, which are subject to such regulations. regeneron is not currently classified as a covered entity or business associate under hipaa and thus is not subject to its requirements or penalties. however, any person may be prosecuted under hipaa's criminal provisions either directly or under aiding-and-abetting or conspiracy 49 table of contents principles. consequently, depending on the facts and circumstances, we could face substantial criminal penalties if we knowingly receive individually identifiable health information from a hipaa-covered health care provider or research institution that has not satisfied hipaa's requirements for disclosure of individually identifiable health information. in addition, we may maintain sensitive personally identifiable information, including health information, that we receive throughout the clinical trial process, in the course of our research collaborations, and directly from individuals (or their healthcare providers) who enroll in our patient assistance programs. as such, we may be subject to state laws requiring notification of affected individuals and state regulators in the event of a breach of personal information, which is a broader class of information than the health information protected by hipaa. our clinical trial programs and research collaborations outside the u.s. (such as our consortium with a group of companies to fund the generation of genetic exome sequence data from the uk biobank health resource) may implicate international data protection laws, including the general data protection regulation (gdpr) that recently replaced the eu data protection directive and is being enforced in the european union. the gdpr has created a range of new compliance obligations, including increased transparency requirements and new data subject rights. violations of the gdpr carry significant financial penalties for noncompliance (including possible fines of up to 4% of global annual turnover for the preceding financial year or 20 million (whichever is higher) for the most serious infringements). in addition to the gdpr, certain eu member states will be issuing their own implementation legislation. while we continue to monitor these developments, there remains some uncertainty surrounding the legal and regulatory environment for these evolving privacy and data protection laws. complying with varying jurisdictional requirements could increase the costs and complexity of compliance, including the new risk of substantial financial penalties for data breach or improper processing of personal data under the gdpr. failure by our collaborators to comply with the strict rules on the transfer of personal data outside of the eu into the u.s. may result in the imposition of criminal and administrative sanctions on such collaborators, which could adversely affect our business and could create liability for us. furthermore, certain health privacy laws, data breach notification laws, consumer protection laws, and genetic testing laws may apply directly to our operations and/or those of our collaborators and may impose restrictions on our collection, use, and dissemination of individuals' health information. moreover, patients about whom we or our collaborators obtain health information, as well as the providers who share this information with us, may have statutory or contractual rights that limit our ability to use and disclose the information. we are likely to be required to expend significant capital and other resources to ensure ongoing compliance with applicable privacy and data security laws both inside and outside the united states. claims that we have violated individuals' privacy rights or breached our contractual obligations, even if we are not found liable, could be expensive and time-consuming to defend and could result in adverse publicity that could harm our business. if we or any collaborators fail to comply with applicable federal, state, or local regulatory requirements, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions that could affect our or any collaborators' ability to commercialize our products and could harm, prevent, or substantially increase the cost of marketing and sales of any affected products that we are able to commercialize. any threatened or actual government enforcement action could also generate adverse publicity and require that we devote substantial resources that could otherwise be used in other aspects of our business. increasing use of social media could give rise to liability, breaches of data security, or reputational damage. we and our employees are increasingly utilizing social media tools as a means of communication both internally and externally. despite our efforts to monitor evolving social media communication guidelines and comply with applicable rules, there is risk that the use of social media by us or our employees to communicate about our products or business may cause us to be found in violation of applicable requirements. in addition, our employees may knowingly or inadvertently make use of social media in ways that may not comply with our social media policy or other legal or contractual requirements, which may give rise to liability, lead to the loss of trade secrets or other intellectual property, or result in public exposure of personal information of our employees, clinical trial patients, customers, and others. furthermore, negative posts or comments about us or our products in social media could seriously damage our reputation, brand image, and goodwill. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. risks related to our reliance on third parties if our antibody collaboration or our io collaboration with sanofi is terminated, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition, and our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize certain of our products and product candidates in the time expected, or at all, would be materially harmed. we rely on funding and support from sanofi to develop, manufacture, and commercialize certain of our products and product candidates. with respect to dupixent, praluent, kevzara, and regn3500, which we are co-developing with sanofi under our antibody collaboration, sanofi funds a significant portion of development expenses incurred in connection with the development of these products. in addition, we rely on sanofi to lead much of the clinical development efforts, assist with or lead efforts to obtain and maintain regulatory approvals, and lead the commercialization efforts for these products and product candidates. 50 table of contents as a result of the amendment and restatement of our io discovery and development agreement with sanofi (which forms part of our io collaboration), we will fund and conduct on our own all research, development, manufacturing, and commercialization activities to support all of our immuno-oncology product candidates other than regn4018 and regn5458, unless we enter into arrangements with other parties. in addition, if sanofi does not elect to co-develop regn4018 or regn5458 under our io collaboration, or opts out of their development under our io collaboration, we will be required to fund and conduct on our own all such efforts to support those product candidates, unless we enter into arrangements with other parties. if sanofi elects to co-develop regn5458 and/or regn4018 under our io collaboration, sanofi will initially fund almost all of the development expenses incurred in connection with the development of regn5458, for which sanofi will be the principal controlling party, and half of the development expenses incurred in connection with the clinical development of regn4018, for which we will be the principal controlling party. under our io collaboration, sanofi also funds half of the development expenses incurred in connection with the clinical development of libtayo, subject to an agreed-upon development budget. in addition, for regn5458, we will rely on sanofi to lead much of the clinical development efforts and assist with obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval. following regulatory approval, we will rely on sanofi to lead (i) the commercialization efforts in the united states for regn5458 and (ii) the commercialization efforts outside the united states to support libtayo, regn4018, and regn5458. if sanofi terminates the antibody collaboration or the io collaboration or fails to comply with its payment obligations under any of our collaborations, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be materially harmed. we would be required to either expend substantially more resources than we have anticipated to support our research and development efforts, which could require us to seek additional funding that might not be available on favorable terms or at all, or materially cut back on such activities. if sanofi does not perform its obligations with respect to the product candidates that it elects to co-develop, our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize these product candidates will be significantly adversely affected. we have limited commercial capabilities outside the united states and would have to develop or outsource these capabilities for products commercialized under our antibody collaboration, such as dupixent, praluent, and kevzara, or our io collaboration, such as libtayo (see also "risks related to commercialization of products - if we need to establish commercial capabilities outside the united states and are unable to do so, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be adversely affected " above). termination of the antibody collaboration or the io collaboration would create substantial new and additional risks to the successful development and commercialization of (i) dupixent, praluent, and kevzara and (ii) libtayo, respectively, particularly outside the united states. if our collaboration with bayer for eylea is terminated, or bayer materially breaches its obligations thereunder, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition, and our ability to continue to commercialize eylea outside the united states would be materially harmed. we rely heavily on bayer with respect to the commercialization of eylea outside the united states. bayer is responsible for obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval outside the united states, as well as providing all sales, marketing, and commercial support for the product outside the united states. in particular, bayer has responsibility for selling eylea outside the united states using its sales force and, in japan, in cooperation with santen pursuant to a co-promotion and distribution agreement with bayer's japanese affiliate. if bayer and, in japan, santen do not perform their obligations in a timely manner, or at all, our ability to commercialize eylea outside the united states will be significantly adversely affected. bayer has the right to terminate its collaboration agreement with us at any time upon six or twelve months' advance notice, depending on the circumstances giving rise to termination. if bayer were to terminate its collaboration agreement with us, we may not have the resources or skills to replace those of our collaborator, which could require us to seek another collaboration that might not be available on favorable terms or at all, and could cause significant delays in the commercialization of eylea outside the united states and result in substantial additional costs and/or lower revenues to us. we have limited commercial capabilities outside the united states and would have to develop or outsource these capabilities (see also "risks related to commercialization of products - if we need to establish commercial capabilities outside the united states and are unable to do so, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be adversely affected " above). termination of the bayer collaboration agreement would create substantial new and additional risks to the successful commercialization of eylea outside the united states. our collaborators and service providers may fail to perform adequately in their efforts to support the development, manufacture, and commercialization of our drug candidates and current and future products. we depend upon third-party collaborators, including sanofi, bayer, and service providers such as cros, outside testing laboratories, clinical investigator sites, third-party manufacturers, fill/finish providers, and product packagers and labelers, to assist us in the manufacture and preclinical and clinical development of our product candidates. we also depend, or will depend, on some of these third parties in connection with the commercialization of our marketed products and our late-stage product candidates and new indications for our marketed products if they are approved for marketing. if any of our existing collaborators or service providers breaches or terminates its agreement with us or does not perform its development or manufacturing services under an agreement in a timely manner (including as a result of its inability to perform due to financial or other relevant constraints) or in 51 table of contents compliance with applicable gmps, glps, or gcp standards, we could experience additional costs, delays, and difficulties in the manufacture or development of, or in obtaining approval by regulatory authorities for, or successfully commercializing our product candidates. we and our collaborators rely on third-party service providers to support the distribution of our marketed products and for many other related activities in connection with the commercialization of these marketed products. despite our or our collaborators' arrangements with them, these third parties may not perform adequately. if these service providers do not perform their services adequately, sales of our marketed products will suffer. risk related to employees we are dependent on our key personnel and if we cannot recruit and retain leaders in our research, development, manufacturing, and commercial organizations, our business will be harmed. we are highly dependent on certain of our executive officers, other key members of our senior management team, and our chairman. if we are not able to retain (or for any other reason lose the services of) any of these persons, our business may suffer. in particular, we depend on the services of p. roy vagelos, m.d., the chairman of our board of directors; leonard s. schleifer, m.d., ph.d., our president and chief executive officer; and george d. yancopoulos, m.d., ph.d., our president and chief scientific officer. we are also highly dependent on the expertise and services of other senior management members leading our research, development, manufacturing, and commercialization efforts. there is intense competition in the biotechnology industry for qualified scientists and managerial personnel in the research, development, manufacture, and commercialization of drugs. we may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary to continue to advance our business and achieve our strategic objectives. information technology risks significant disruptions of information technology systems or breaches of data security could adversely affect our business. our business is increasingly dependent on critical, complex, and interdependent information technology systems, including internet-based systems, to support business processes as well as internal and external communications. the size and complexity of our computer systems make us potentially vulnerable to it system breakdowns, internal and external malicious intrusion, and computer viruses, which may impact product production and key business processes. we also have outsourced significant elements of our information technology infrastructure and operations to third parties, which may allow them to access our confidential information and may also make our systems vulnerable to service interruptions or to security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions by such third parties or others. in addition, our systems are potentially vulnerable to data security breaches - whether by employees or others - which may expose sensitive data to unauthorized persons. data security breaches could lead to the loss of trade secrets or other intellectual property, result in demands for ransom or other forms of blackmail, or lead to the public exposure of personal information (including sensitive personal information) of our employees, clinical trial patients, customers, and others. such attacks are of ever-increasing levels of sophistication and are made by groups and individuals with a wide range of motives (including industrial espionage) and expertise, including by organized criminal groups, "hacktivists," nation states, and others. as a company with an increasingly global presence, our systems are subject to frequent attacks. due to the nature of some of these attacks, there is a risk that an attack may remain undetected for a period of time. while we continue to make investments to improve the protection of data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent service interruptions or security breaches. such disruptions and breaches of security could result in legal proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, disruptions to our operations, and damage to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. risks related to our financial results, liquidity, and need for additional financing if we cannot sustain profitability, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be materially harmed. if we cannot sustain profitability, we may be unable to continue our operations. in the absence of substantial revenue from the sale of products on an ongoing basis, including our sales of eylea, our share of the profits from bayer's sales of eylea outside the united states, funding we receive under our collaboration agreements, or from other sources, the amount, timing, nature, or source of which cannot be predicted, we may incur substantial losses again as we conduct our research and development activities, commercialize our approved products, and prepare for possible commercialization of our other product candidates and new indications of our marketed products. 52 table of contents we may need additional funding in the future, which may not be available to us, and which may force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts. we expend substantial resources for research and development, including costs associated with clinical testing of our product candidates and new indications of our marketed products, the commercialization of products, and capital expenditures. we believe our existing capital resources and borrowing availability under our revolving credit facility, together with funds generated by current and anticipated eylea net product sales and funding we are entitled to receive under our collaboration agreements, will enable us to meet our anticipated operating needs for the foreseeable future. however, one or more of our collaboration agreements may terminate, our revenues may fall short of our projections or be delayed, or our expenses may increase, any of which could result in our capital being consumed significantly faster than anticipated. in addition, our expenses may increase for many reasons, including expenses in connection with the commercialization of our marketed products and the potential commercial launches of our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products, manufacturing scale-up, expenses related to clinical trials testing of antibody-based product candidates we are developing on our own (without a collaborator), and expenses for which we are responsible in accordance with the terms of our collaboration agreements. we cannot be certain that our existing capital resources and our current and anticipated revenues will be sufficient to meet our operating needs. we may require additional financing in the future and we may not be able to raise additional funds on acceptable terms or at all. for example, in march 2017, we completed a $720.0 million lease financing for our existing corporate headquarters and other rentable area consisting of approximately 150 acres of predominately office buildings and laboratory space located in the towns of mount pleasant and greenburgh, ny, which will become due and payable in full on the five-year anniversary of the closing date unless extended with the consent of all the participants and subject to certain other conditions. our ability to refinance or to obtain additional financing could be adversely affected if there is a significant decline in the demand for our products or other significantly unfavorable changes in economic conditions. volatility in the financial markets could increase borrowing costs or affect our ability to raise capital. if additional financing is necessary and we obtain it through the sale of equity securities, such sales will likely be dilutive to our shareholders. debt financing arrangements may require us to pledge certain assets or enter into covenants that would restrict our business activities or our ability to incur further indebtedness and may be at interest rates and contain other terms that are not favorable to our shareholders. should we require and be unable to raise sufficient funds (i) to complete the development of our product candidates, (ii) to successfully commercialize our late-stage product candidates or new indications for our marketed products if they obtain regulatory approval, and (iii) to continue our manufacturing and marketing of our marketed products, we may face delay, reduction, or elimination of our research and development or preclinical or clinical programs and our commercialization activities, which would significantly limit our potential to generate revenue. changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. our revenue from outside of the united states will increase as our products, whether marketed by us or our collaborators, gain marketing approval in such jurisdictions. our primary foreign currency exposure relates to movements in the japanese yen, euro, british pound sterling, and australian dollar. if the u.s. dollar weakens against a specific foreign currency, our revenues will increase, having a positive impact on net income, but our overall expenses will increase, having a negative impact. likewise, if the u.s. dollar strengthens against a specific foreign currency, our revenues will decrease, having a negative impact on net income, but our overall expenses will decrease, having a positive impact. therefore, significant changes in foreign exchange rates can impact our operating results and the financial condition of our company. our investments are subject to risks and other external factors that may result in losses or affect the liquidity of these investments. as of december 31, 2018, we had $1,467.7 million in cash and cash equivalents and $3,097.2 million in marketable securities (including $88.0 million in equity securities). our investments consist primarily of debt securities, including investment-grade corporate bonds. these fixed-income investments are subject to external factors that may adversely affect their market value or liquidity, such as interest rate, liquidity, market, and issuer credit risks, including actual or anticipated changes in credit ratings. the equity securities we hold may experience significant volatility and may decline in value or become worthless if the issuer experiences an adverse development. furthermore, our equity investments could be subject to dilution (and decline in value) as a result of the issuance of additional equity interests by the applicable issuer. if any of our investments suffer market price declines, such declines may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. 53 table of contents risks related to our common stock our stock price is extremely volatile. there has been significant volatility in our stock price and generally in the market prices of biotechnology companies' securities. various factors and events may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. these factors include, by way of example: net product sales of our marketed products (as recorded by us or our collaborators), in particular eylea, dupixent, and libtayo, as well as our overall operating results; if any of our product candidates or our new indications for our marketed products receive regulatory approval, net product sales of, and profits from, these product candidates and new indications; market acceptance of, and the market share for, our marketed products, especially eylea, dupixent, and libtayo; whether our net product sales and net profits underperform, meet, or exceed the expectations of investors or analysts; announcement of actions by the fda or foreign regulatory authorities or their respective advisory committees regarding our, or our collaborators', or our competitors', currently pending or future application(s) for regulatory approval of product candidate(s) or new indications for marketed products; announcement of submission of an application for regulatory approval of one or more of our, or our competitors', product candidates or new indications for marketed products; progress, delays, or results in clinical trials of our or our competitors' product candidates or new indications for marketed products; announcement of technological innovations or product candidates by us or competitors; claims by others that our products or technologies infringe their patents; challenges by others to our patents in the epo and in the uspto; public concern as to the safety or effectiveness of any of our marketed products or product candidates or new indications for our marketed products; pricing or reimbursement actions, decisions, or recommendations by government authorities, insurers, or other organizations (such as health maintenance organizations and pharmacy benefit management companies) affecting the coverage, reimbursement, or use of any of our marketed products or competitors' products; our ability to raise additional capital as needed on favorable terms; developments in our relationships with collaborators or key customers; developments in the biotechnology industry or in government regulation of healthcare, including those relating to compounding ( i.e. , a practice in which a pharmacist, a physician, or, in the case of an outsourcing facility, a person under the supervision of a pharmacist, combines, mixes, or alters ingredients of a drug to create a medication tailored to the needs of an individual patient); large sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors, or significant shareholders; changes in tax rates, laws, or interpretation of tax laws; arrivals and departures of key personnel; general market conditions; trading activity that results from the rebalancing of stock indices in which our common stock is included, or the inclusion or exclusion of our common stock from such indices; other factors identified in these "risk factors"; and the perception by the investment community or our shareholders of any of the foregoing factors. the trading price of our common stock has been, and could continue to be, subject to wide fluctuations in response to these and other factors, including the sale or attempted sale of a large amount of our common stock in the market. as discussed in greater detail under " future sales of our common stock by our significant shareholders or us may depress our stock price and impair our ability to raise funds in new share offerings " below, a large percentage of our common stock is owned by a small number of our principal shareholders, and our largest shareholder, sanofi, has been maintaining its percentage ownership of our common stock but has previously publicly disclosed that it may opportunistically increase its percentage ownership of our common stock (note, however, that we have agreed to grant a limited waiver of the requirement that sanofi maintain the highest percentage threshold (as defined below) as a condition to its director designation right during the term of the letter agreement with sanofi described below under " our existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval and over our management "). as a result, the public float of our common stock ( i.e. , the portion of our common stock held by public investors, as opposed to the common stock held by our directors, officers, and principal shareholders) is low relative to many large public companies. as our common stock is less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership, its trading price may fluctuate significantly more than the stock market as a whole. these factors may exacerbate the volatility in the trading price of our common stock and may negatively impact your ability to liquidate your investment in regeneron at the time you wish at a price you consider satisfactory. broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the market price of our common stock. in the past, securities class action litigation has often been initiated against companies following periods of 54 table of contents volatility in their stock price. this type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources, and could also require us to make substantial payments to satisfy judgments or to settle litigation, which may harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. future sales of our common stock by our significant shareholders or us may depress our stock price and impair our ability to raise funds in new share offerings. a small number of our shareholders beneficially own a substantial amount of our common stock. as of december 31, 2018 , our five largest shareholders plus dr. schleifer, our chief executive officer, beneficially owned approximately 44.4% of our outstanding shares of common stock, assuming, in the case of our chief executive officer, the conversion of his class a stock into common stock and the exercise of all options held by him which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2018 . as of december 31, 2018 , sanofi beneficially owned 23,654,384 shares of our common stock, representing approximately 22.1% of the shares of common stock then outstanding. under our january 2014 amended and restated investor agreement with sanofi, sanofi has three demand rights to require us to use all reasonable efforts to conduct a registered underwritten offering with respect to shares of our common stock held by sanofi from time to time; however, shares of our common stock held by sanofi from time to time are subject to a "lock-up" and may not be sold until december 20, 2020 (other than with respect to an aggregate of up to 1,173,847 shares, as to which we have agreed to waive the lock-up during the term of the letter agreement with sanofi described below under " our existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval and over our management " and which currently remain available to be sold in accordance with the letter agreement). these restrictions on dispositions are subject to earlier termination upon the occurrence of certain events, such as the consummation of a change-of-control transaction involving us or a dissolution or liquidation of our company. in december 2015, sanofi disclosed in an amendment to its schedule 13d filed with the sec its intention to purchase (subject to market conditions, including the price and availability of shares of our common stock, and legal and regulatory requirements) additional shares of our common stock to maintain and opportunistically increase its beneficial ownership on a percentage basis up to the maximum allowed under the "standstill" provisions of our amended and restated investor agreement with sanofi, or 30% of our class a stock and common stock (taken together). if sanofi, our other significant shareholders, or we sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market (including, in the case of sanofi, as a result of the lock-up waiver referred to above), or there is a perception that such sales may occur, the market price of our common stock could fall. sales of common stock by our significant shareholders, including sanofi, also might make it more difficult for us to raise funds by selling equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. our existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval and over our management. holders of class a stock, who are generally the shareholders who purchased their stock from us before our initial public offering, are entitled to ten votes per share, while holders of common stock are entitled to one vote per share. as of december 31, 2018 , holders of class a stock held 15.1% of the combined voting power of all shares of common stock and class a stock then outstanding. these shareholders, if acting together, would be in a position to significantly influence the election of our directors and the vote on certain corporate transactions that require majority or supermajority approval of the combined classes, including mergers and other business combinations. this may result in our taking corporate actions that other shareholders may not consider to be in their best interest and may affect the price of our common stock. as of december 31, 2018 : our current executive officers and directors beneficially owned 9.7% of our outstanding shares of common stock, assuming conversion of their class a stock into common stock and the exercise of all options held by such persons which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2018 , and 20.4% of the combined voting power of our outstanding shares of common stock and class a stock, assuming the exercise of all options held by such persons which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2018 ; and our five largest shareholders plus dr. schleifer, our chief executive officer, beneficially owned approximately 44.4% of our outstanding shares of common stock, assuming, in the case of our chief executive officer, the conversion of his class a stock into common stock and the exercise of all options held by him which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2018 . in addition, these five shareholders plus our chief executive officer held approximately 50.5% of the combined voting power of our outstanding shares of common stock and class a stock, assuming the exercise of all options held by our chief executive officer which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2018 . pursuant to the january 2014 amended and restated investor agreement with us, sanofi has agreed to vote its shares as recommended by our board of directors, except that it may elect to vote proportionally with the votes cast by all of our other shareholders with respect to certain change-of-control transactions and to vote in its sole discretion with respect to liquidation or dissolution of our company, stock issuances equal to or exceeding 20% of the outstanding shares or voting rights of common stock and class a stock (taken together), and new equity compensation plans or amendments if not materially consistent with our historical equity compensation practices. 55 table of contents in addition, we are required under the amended and restated investor agreement to appoint an individual agreed upon by us and sanofi to our board of directors. subject to certain exceptions, we are required to use our reasonable efforts (including recommending that our shareholders vote in favor) to cause the election of this designee at our annual shareholder meetings for so long as (other than during the term of the letter agreement described below) sanofi maintains an equity interest in us that is the lower of (i) the highest percentage ownership sanofi attains following its acquisition of 20% of our outstanding shares of class a stock and common stock (taken together) (which occurred in april 2014), and (ii) 25% of our outstanding shares of class a stock and common stock (taken together) (highest percentage threshold). this designee is required to be "independent" of our company, as determined under nasdaq rules, and not to be a current or former officer, director, employee, or paid consultant of sanofi. the current sanofi designee, n. anthony coles, m.d., is a class ii director whose current term expires at the 2020 annual shareholder meeting. effective january 7, 2018, we and sanofi and certain of sanofi's direct and indirect subsidiaries entered into a letter agreement in connection with (a) the increase of the development budget amount for libtayo set forth in the io license and collaboration agreement and (b) the allocation of additional funds to certain proposed activities relating to the dupilumab/regn3500 eligible investments. pursuant to the letter agreement, we have agreed, among other things, to grant a limited waiver of sanofi's obligation to maintain the highest percentage threshold during the term of the letter agreement in order to allow sanofi to satisfy in whole or in part (a) its funding obligations with respect to the libtayo development costs under the io license and collaboration agreement for the quarterly periods commencing on october 1, 2017 and ending on september 30, 2020 by selling up to 800,000 shares of our common stock directly or indirectly owned by sanofi (of which 584,613 currently remains available) and (b) its funding obligations with respect to the costs incurred by or on behalf of the parties to the antibody license and collaboration agreement with respect to the dupilumab/regn3500 eligible investments for the quarterly periods commencing on january 1, 2018 and ending on september 30, 2020 by selling up to 600,000 shares of our common stock directly or indirectly owned by sanofi (of which 589,234 currently remains available). if sanofi desires to sell shares of our common stock during the term of the letter agreement to satisfy a portion or all of its funding obligations for the libtayo development and/or dupilumab/regn3500 eligible investments, we may elect to purchase, in whole or in part, such shares from sanofi. if we do not elect to purchase such shares, sanofi may sell the applicable number of shares (subject to certain daily and quarterly limits) in one or more open-market transactions. in addition, we and sanofi have agreed that, upon termination of the letter agreement, the amended and restated investor agreement will be amended to define "highest percentage threshold" as the lower of (i) 25% of our outstanding shares of class a stock and common stock (taken together) and (ii) the higher of (a) sanofi's percentage ownership of class a stock and common stock (taken together) on such termination date and (b) the highest percentage ownership of our outstanding shares of class a stock and common stock (taken together) sanofi attains following such termination date. the anti-takeover effects of provisions of our charter, by-laws, and of new york corporate law, as well as the contractual provisions in our investor and collaboration agreements and certain provisions of our compensation plans and agreements, could deter, delay, or prevent an acquisition or other "change of control" of us and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. our certificate of incorporation, our by-laws, and the new york business corporation law contain various provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company or our management that shareholders may consider favorable or beneficial. some of these provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. these provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. these provisions include: authorization to issue "blank check" preferred stock, which is preferred stock that can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior shareholder approval, with rights senior to those of our common stock and class a stock; a staggered board of directors, so that it would take three successive annual shareholder meetings to replace all of our directors; a requirement that removal of directors may only be effected for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of at least eighty percent (80%) of the outstanding shares entitled to vote for directors, as well as a requirement that any vacancy on the board of directors may be filled only by the remaining directors; a provision whereby any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of shareholders may be taken without a meeting, only if, prior to such action, all of our shareholders consent, the effect of which is to require that shareholder action may only be taken at a duly convened meeting; a requirement that any shareholder seeking to bring business before an annual meeting of shareholders must provide timely notice of this intention in writing and meet various other requirements; and under the new york business corporation law, in addition to certain restrictions which may apply to "business combinations" involving our company and an "interested shareholder," a plan of merger or consolidation of our company must be approved by two-thirds of the votes of all outstanding shares entitled to vote thereon. see the risk factor above captioned " our existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval and over our management. " 56 table of contents pursuant to the january 2014 amended and restated investor agreement between us and sanofi, sanofi is bound by certain "standstill" provisions, which contractually prohibit sanofi from seeking to directly or indirectly exert control of our company or acquiring more than 30% of our class a stock and common stock (taken together). this prohibition will remain in place until the earliest of (i) the later of the fifth anniversaries of the expiration or earlier termination of our license and collaboration agreement with sanofi relating to our antibody collaboration or our zaltrap collaboration agreement with sanofi, each as amended; (ii) our announcement recommending acceptance by our shareholders of a tender offer or exchange offer that, if consummated, would constitute a change of control involving us; (iii) the public announcement of any definitive agreement providing for a change of control involving us; (iv) the date of any issuance of shares of common stock by us that would result in another party having more than 10% of the voting power of our outstanding class a stock and common stock (taken together) unless such party enters into a standstill agreement containing certain terms substantially similar to the standstill obligations of sanofi; or (v) other specified events, such as a liquidation or dissolution of our company. similarly, pursuant to our 2016 ang2 license and collaboration agreement with bayer (which was terminated on november 1, 2018 by agreement of the parties but whose "standstill" provisions continue to be in effect as described below), bayer is bound by certain "standstill" provisions, which contractually prohibit bayer from seeking to influence the control of our company or acquiring more than 20% of our outstanding class a stock and common stock (taken together). this prohibition will remain in place until the earliest of (i) november 1, 2023; (ii) the public announcement of a tender offer, exchange offer, or other proposal that would constitute a change of control of our company; (iii) the acquisition by a third party or a group of third parties (other than by dr. schleifer or his affiliates) of more than 20% of the voting power of our outstanding class a stock and common stock (taken together); (iv) the issuance of shares of capital stock to another party (other than to an underwriter in a public offering) that would result in such party's having more than 7% of the voting power of our outstanding class a stock and common stock (taken together) unless such third party enters into a standstill agreement containing terms substantially similar to the standstill obligations of bayer; or (v) other specified events, such as a liquidation or dissolution of our company. further, pursuant to the 2016 collaboration agreement between us and teva, teva and its affiliates are bound by certain "standstill" provisions, which contractually prohibit them from seeking to directly or indirectly exert control of our company or acquiring more than 5% of our class a stock and common stock (taken together). this prohibition will remain in place until the earliest of (i) the fifth anniversary of the expiration or earlier termination of the agreement; (ii) our announcement recommending acceptance by our shareholders of a tender offer or exchange offer that, if consummated, would constitute a change of control involving us; (iii) the public announcement of any definitive agreement providing for a change of control involving us; (iv) the acquisition by a third party or a group of third parties of more than 30% of the voting power of our outstanding class a stock and common stock (taken together); (v) the date of any issuance of shares of capital stock by us that would result in another party having more than 10% of the voting power of our outstanding class a stock and common stock (taken together) unless such party enters into a standstill agreement containing certain terms substantially similar to the standstill obligations of teva; or (vi) other specified events, such as a liquidation or dissolution of our company. in addition, our change in control severance plan and the employment agreement with our chief executive officer, each as amended and restated, provide for severance benefits in the event of termination as a result of a change in control of our company. also, stock option awards issued under our second amended and restated 2000 long-term incentive plan, our 2014 long-term incentive plan, and our amended and restated 2014 long-term incentive plan may become fully vested in connection with a "change in control" of our company, as defined in the plans. further, under the amended and restated investor agreement between us and sanofi, we are required to appoint an individual agreed upon by us and sanofi to our board of directors and to use our reasonable efforts to cause the election of this designee at our annual shareholder meetings for so long as sanofi maintains a specified equity interest in us. as described above under " our existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval and over our management ," a sanofi designee currently serves on our board of directors. these contractual provisions may also have the effect of deterring, delaying, or preventing an acquisition or other change in control. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 76 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our earnings and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to changes in interest rates, principally in connection with our investments in marketable securities, which consist primarily of corporate bonds, direct obligations of the u.s. government and its agencies and other debt securities guaranteed by the u.s. government, and municipal bonds. we do not believe we are materially exposed to changes in interest rates related to our investments, and we do not currently use interest rate derivative instruments to manage exposure to interest rate changes of our investments. we estimate that a 100 basis point, or 1%, unfavorable change in interest rates would have resulted in approximately a $27.7 million and $23.2 million decrease in the fair value of our investment portfolio as of december 31, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. we have exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates, including the interest rate risk relating to our march 2017 variable rate tarrytown, new york lease (as described in item 7. "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - liquidity and capital resources - tarrytown, new york leases "). our interest rate exposure is primarily offset by our investments in marketable securities. in addition, we further manage our interest rate exposure through the use of derivative instruments. all of our derivative instruments are utilized for risk management purposes and are not used for trading or speculative purposes. we continue to monitor our interest rate risk and may utilize additional derivative instruments and/or other strategies in the future to further mitigate our interest rate exposure. we have hedged a portion of our floating interest rate exposure using interest rate swap and interest rate cap contracts (see note 6 to our consolidated financial statements). we estimate that a 100 basis point, or 1%, unfavorable change in interest rates would not have a material impact on the fair value of our interest rate swap or interest rate cap contracts. the following table summarizes the notional amounts of our outstanding interest rate swap and cap contracts as of december 31, 2018 : (in millions) notional amount interest rate swap contracts $ 75.0 interest rate cap contracts $ 75.0 credit quality risk we have an investment policy that includes guidelines on acceptable investment securities, minimum credit quality, maturity parameters, and concentration and diversification. nonetheless, deterioration of the credit quality of an investment security subsequent to purchase may subject us to the risk of not being able to recover the full principal value of the security. in 2018, 2017, and 2016, we did not record any charges for other-than-temporary impairments of our available-for-sale debt securities. we are subject to credit risk associated with the receivables due from our collaborators bayer, sanofi, and teva. we are also subject to credit risk in connection with trade accounts receivable from our product sales. these trade accounts receivable are primarily due from several distributors and specialty pharmacies, who are our customers. we have contractual payment terms with each of our customers, and we monitor our customers' financial performance and credit worthiness so that we can properly assess and respond to any changes in their credit profile. during 2018 , 2017 , and 2016, we did not recognize any charges for write-offs of accounts receivable related to our marketed products. as of december 31, 2018 and 2017, three customers accounted on a combined basis for 99% of our net trade accounts receivables. 76 table of contents foreign exchange risk as discussed further above, bayer markets eylea outside the united states and sanofi markets dupixent, praluent, and kevzara worldwide, and we share in profits and losses with these collaborators from commercialization of products (including the receipt of a percentage of eylea sales in japan). in addition, pursuant to the applicable terms of the agreements with our collaborators, we also share in certain worldwide development expenses incurred by our collaborators. we also incur worldwide development expenses for clinical products we are developing independently, in addition to incurring expenses outside of the united states in connection with our international operations. therefore, significant changes in foreign exchange rates of the countries outside the united states where our product is sold, where development expenses are incurred by us or our collaborators, or where we incur operating expenses can impact our operating results and financial condition. as sales outside the united states continue to grow, and as we expand our international operations, we will continue to assess potential steps, including foreign currency hedging and other strategies, to mitigate our foreign exchange risk. market price risk we are exposed to price risk on equity securities included in our investment portfolio. our marketable securities include equity investments in publicly traded stock of companies, including common stock of companies with which we have entered into collaboration arrangements. changes in the fair value of our equity investments are included in other income (expense), net on the consolidated statements of income. for the year ended december 31, 2018, there were $41.9 million of net unrealized losses on equity securities recognized in other income (expense), net.risk factors 27 "risk factors," which could cause actual events and results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. we do not undertake any obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. general regeneron pharmaceuticals, inc. is a fully integrated biotechnology company that discovers, invents, develops, manufactures, and commercializes medicines for the treatment of serious diseases. our commercialized medicines and product candidates in development are designed to help patients with eye diseases, allergic and inflammatory diseases, cancer, cardiovascular and metabolic diseases, pain, infectious diseases, and rare diseases. our core business strategy is to maintain a strong foundation in basic scientific research and discovery-enabling technologies, and to build on that foundation with our clinical development, manufacturing, and commercial capabilities. our objective is to continue to be an integrated, multi-product biotechnology company that provides patients and medical professionals with important options for preventing and treating human diseases. 2 table of contents selected financial information is summarized as follows: year ended december 31, (in millions, except per share data) 2019 2018 2017 revenues $ 7,863.4 $ 6,710.8 $ 5,872.2 net income $ 2,115.8 $ 2,444.4 $ 1,198.5 net income per share - diluted $ 18.46 $ 21.29 $ 10.34 in december 2019, we and sanofi announced our intent to restructure the antibody collaboration for kevzara and praluent; completion of the proposed arrangement is expected to be finalized in the first quarter of 2020. refer to "collaboration agreements - collaborations with sanofi - antibody " section below for further details. 3 table of contents marketed products we currently have seven products that have received marketing approval, which are currently marketed by us, bayer, and/or sanofi: product disease area (1) territory u.s. eu japan row (6) eylea (aflibercept) injection (2) - neovascular age-related macular degeneration ("wet amd") a a a a - diabetic macular edema ("dme") a a a a - macular edema following retinal vein occlusion ("rvo"), which includes macular edema following central retinal vein occlusion ("crvo") and macular edema following branch retinal vein occlusion ("brvo") a a a a - myopic choroidal neovascularization ("mcnv") a a a - diabetic retinopathy a dupixent (dupilumab) injection (3) - atopic dermatitis (in adults and adolescents) (7) a a a a - asthma (in adults and adolescents) a a a a - chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyposis ("crswnp") a a a libtayo (cemiplimab) injection (3)(4) - metastatic or locally advanced cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma ("cscc") a a a praluent (alirocumab) injection (3) - ldl-lowering in heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia ("hefh") or clinical atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease ("ascvd") (in adults) a a a a - cardiovascular risk reduction in patients with established cardiovascular disease a a a kevzara (sarilumab) solution for subcutaneous injection (3) - rheumatoid arthritis ("ra") (in adults) a a a a arcalyst (rilonacept) injection for subcutaneous use - cryopyrin-associated periodic syndromes ("caps"), including familial cold auto-inflammatory syndrome ("fcas") and muckle-wells syndrome ("mws") a zaltrap (ziv-aflibercept) injection for intravenous infusion (5) - metastatic colorectal cancer ("mcrc") a a a a (1) refer to label information in each territory for specific indication (2) in collaboration with bayer (outside the united states) (3) in collaboration with sanofi (4) marketed as libtayo (cemiplimab-rwlc) injection in the united states (5) pursuant to a 2015 amended and restated zaltrap agreement, sanofi is solely responsible for the development and commercialization of zaltrap, and sanofi pays us a percentage of aggregate net sales of zaltrap (6) rest of world. checkmark in this column indicates that the product has received marketing approval in at least one country outside of the united states, european union (eu), or japan (7) approval in japan is for adults and adolescents 15 years of age and older 4 table of contents net product sales of regeneron-discovered products (1) year ended december 31, (in millions) 2019 2018 2017 u.s. row total u.s. row total u.s. row total eylea (1) $ 4,644.2 $ 2,897.4 $ 7,541.6 $ 4,076.7 $ 2,668.9 $ 6,745.6 $ 3,701.9 $ 2,226.9 $ 5,928.8 libtayo (1) 175.7 18.1 193.8 14.8 14.8 arcalyst 14.5 14.5 14.7 14.7 16.6 16.6 net product sales recorded by regeneron $ 4,834.4 $ 4,106.2 $ 3,718.5 net product sales recorded by sanofi (1) : dupixent $ 1,871.2 $ 444.4 $ 2,315.6 $ 776.3 $ 145.7 $ 922.0 $ 253.8 $ 2.7 $ 256.5 praluent $ 126.0 $ 162.7 $ 288.7 $ 181.3 $ 125.5 $ 306.8 $ 131.4 $ 63.3 $ 194.7 kevzara $ 129.0 $ 77.7 $ 206.7 $ 74.7 $ 21.9 $ 96.6 $ 11.6 $ 1.7 $ 13.3 zaltrap $ 7.3 $ 101.1 $ 108.4 $ 9.0 $ 98.8 $ 107.8 $ 10.7 $ 73.1 $ 83.8 (1) bayer records net product sales of eylea outside the u.s., and sanofi records net product sales of libtayo outside the u.s. and global net product sales of dupixent, praluent, kevzara, and zaltrap. refer to "collaboration agreements" section below for further details. programs in clinical development all 22 of our product candidates in clinical development, including the five u.s. food and drug administration ("fda") approved products which we are investigating in additional indications, were discovered in our research laboratories and are summarized in the table below. we believe that our ability to develop product candidates is enhanced by the application of our velocisuite technology platforms (refer to "research and development technologies - velocisuite " section below). we continue to invest in the development of enabling technologies to assist in our efforts to identify, develop, manufacture, and commercialize new product candidates. there are numerous uncertainties associated with drug development, including uncertainties related to safety and efficacy data from each phase of drug development (including any post-approval studies), uncertainties related to the enrollment and performance of clinical trials, changes in regulatory requirements, changes to drug pricing and reimbursement regulations and requirements, and changes in the competitive landscape affecting a product candidate. the planning, execution, and results of our clinical programs are significant factors that can affect our operating and financial results. refer to part i, item 1a. "risk factors" for a description of these and other risks and uncertainties that may affect our clinical programs. 5 table of contents clinical program phase 1 phase 2 phase 3 regulatory review (i) 2019 and 2020 events to date select upcoming milestones ophthalmology eylea - high-dose formulation in wet amd - retinopathy of prematurity ("rop") (c) - approved by fda for the treatment of diabetic retinopathy - initiate phase 3 studies of a high-dose formulation of aflibercept in wet amd and dme (mid-2020) - pre-filled syringe approved by fda immunology &amp; inflammatory diseases dupixent (dupilumab) (a) antibody to il-4r alpha subunit - grass allergy - atopic dermatitis in pediatrics (6 months 5 years of age) (phase 2/3) (d) - atopic dermatitis in pediatrics (6 11 years of age) (u.s. and eu) (d) - approved by fda and european commission ("ec") for expanded atopic dermatitis indication in adolescent patients (12 17 years of age) - fda decision (target action date of may 26, 2020) on supplemental biologics license application ("sbla") and ec decision (second half 2020) for expanded atopic dermatitis indication in pediatric patients (6 11 years of age) - peanut allergy - asthma in pediatrics (6 11 years of age) - crswnp (japan) - eosinophilic esophagitis ("eoe") (c) - auto-injector for 300 mg dose (u.s. and japan) - reported that phase 3 study in pediatric patients (6 11 years of age) with severe atopic dermatitis met its primary and secondary endpoints - chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ("copd") - report results from phase 3 study for atopic dermatitis in pediatric patients (6 months 5 years of age) (2022) - bullous pemphigoid (phase 2/3) (c) - approved by ec for treatment of asthma in adults and adolescents - chronic spontaneous urticaria - report results from phase 3 study for asthma in pediatric patients (6 11 years of age) (second half 2020) - prurigo nodularis - approved by fda and ec for crswnp - eu approval for 200 mg and 300 mg auto-injector - japan decision on application for crswnp (first half 2020) - fda issued complete response letter ("crl") on sbla for 200 mg auto-injector - fda decision on application for 300 mg auto-injector (target action date of march 20, 2020) - completed phase 2a trial in grass allergy - resubmit sbla for 200 mg auto-injector (first half 2020) - present results from phase 2a trial in grass allergy at medical meeting (first half 2020) 6 table of contents clinical program (continued) phase 1 phase 2 phase 3 regulatory review (i) 2019 and 2020 events to date select upcoming milestones - report results from phase 2 study in peanut allergy (first half 2021) - initiate phase 3 study in pediatric patients with eoe (second half 2020) - report results from phase 2 portion of phase 2/3 study in eoe (mid-2020) - initiate phase 3 studies in hand and foot atopic dermatitis and allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis ("abpa") (first half 2020) kevzara (sarilumab) (a) antibody to il-6r - polyarticular-course juvenile idiopathic arthritis ("pcjia") - polymyalgia rheumatica ("pmr") - systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis ("sjia") - giant cell arteritis ("gca") regn3500 (a) antibody to il-33. studied as monotherapy and in combination with dupixent. - asthma - reported that phase 2 study in asthma met its primary and key secondary endpoints - report results from phase 2 study in atopic dermatitis (second half 2020) - copd - atopic dermatitis - sanofi reported that phase 2 study in copd demonstrated reduced exacerbations in the overall study population, but results were not statistically significant - initiate phase 2b study in asthma (second half 2020) regn1908-1909 (f) multi-antibody therapy to feld1 - cat allergy - report results from phase 2 study in cat allergic asthmatics (first half 2020) regn5713-5714-5715 antibody to betv1 - birch allergy 7 table of contents clinical program (continued) phase 1 phase 2 phase 3 regulatory review (i) 2019 and 2020 events to date select upcoming milestones oncology libtayo (cemiplimab) (a)(h) antibody to pd-1 - solid tumors and advanced hematologic malignancies - basal cell carcinoma ("bcc") (potentially pivotal study) - first-line non-small cell lung cancer ("nsclc") - conditionally approved by ec for treatment of advanced cscc - report results from potentially pivotal phase 2 study in bcc (mid-2020) - metastatic or locally advanced cscc (d) - second-line cervical cancer (e) - independent data monitoring committee conducted an interim analysis for overall survival in a phase 3 nsclc trial, and recommended trial continue as planned - report results from phase 3 study in cervical cancer (first half 2021) - neoadjuvant cscc - adjuvant cscc - interim analysis of overall survival from phase 3 nsclc monotherapy study (2020) regn1979 bispecific antibody targeting cd20 and cd3 - certain b-cell malignancies (c) - b-cell non-hodgkin lymphoma ("b-nhl") (potentially pivotal study) - reported updated results from phase 1 trial in b-cell malignancies - report updated results from initial study in certain b-cell malignancies (2020) - continued to expand potentially pivotal phase 2 program with different subtypes of nhl - continue to expand potentially pivotal phase 2 study (2020) regn5458 (a) bispecific antibody targeting bcma and cd3 - multiple myeloma - reported positive preliminary results from phase 1 trial in multiple myeloma - report updated results from initial study in multiple myeloma (2020) regn5459 (a) bispecific antibody targeting bcma and cd3 - multiple myeloma regn4018 (a) bispecific antibody targeting muc16 and cd3 - platinum-resistant ovarian cancer regn5678 bispecific antibody targeting psma and cd28 - prostate cancer regn5093 bispecific antibody targeting two distinct met epitopes - met-altered advanced nsclc regn3767 (f) antibody to lag-3 - solid tumors and advanced hematologic malignancies 8 table of contents clinical program (continued) phase 1 phase 2 phase 3 regulatory review (i) 2019 and 2020 events to date select upcoming milestones cardiovascular/metabolic diseases praluent (alirocumab) (a) antibody to pcsk9 - homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia ("hofh") (c) in adults and pediatrics - approved by ec for a new indication to reduce cardiovascular risk in adults with established ascvd - report results from phase 3 study in hofh and submit sbla (2020) - hefh in pediatrics - approved by fda for a new indication to reduce the risk of heart attack, stroke and unstable angina requiring hospitalization in adults with established cv disease - approved by fda for treatment of adults with primary hyperlipidemia (including hefh) to reduce low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ("ldl-c") evinacumab (f) (regn1500) antibody to angptl3 - refractory hypercholesterolemia (both hefh and non-fh) - hofh (c)(d) - reported positive top-line results from phase 3 trial in hofh - submit bla and marketing authorization application ("maa") for hofh (2020) - severe hypertriglyceridemia pozelimab (f) (regn3918) antibody to c5 - paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria ("pnh") (c) - reported positive top-line results from phase 2 trial in pnh - initiate combination program with alnylam's cemdisiran (second half 2020) - initiate phase 3 program in pnh (second half 2020) garetosmab (f) (regn2477) antibody to activin a - fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva ("fop") (c)(e) (potentially pivotal study) - reported results from phase 2 study in fop - discuss regulatory submission for fop with regulatory authorities (first half 2020) regn4461 (f) agonist antibody to leptin receptor ("lepr") - generalized lipodystrophy (e) 9 table of contents clinical program (continued) phase 1 phase 2 phase 3 regulatory review (i) 2019 and 2020 events to date select upcoming milestones pain fasinumab (b)(f) (regn475) antibody to ngf - osteoarthritis pain of the knee or hip (e) - report results from phase 3 studies in osteoarthritis pain of the knee or hip (mid-2020) regn5069 antibody to gfr 3 - osteoarthritis pain of the knee (e) - report results from phase 2 study in osteoarthritis pain of the knee (second half 2020) infectious diseases regn-eb3 (f)(g) (regn3470-3471-3479) multi-antibody therapy to ebola virus infection ("ebola") - ebola (u.s.) (c)(d)(j) - investigational trial in the democratic republic of congo was stopped early based on data showing that regn-eb3 was superior to zmapp in preventing death - complete rolling bla submission for ebola (first half 2020) note 1: for purposes of the table above, a program is classified in phase 1, 2, or 3 clinical development after recruiting for the corresponding study or studies has commenced note 2: we have discontinued further clinical development of regn4659, an antibody to ctla4, which was previously being studied in advanced nsclc (a) in collaboration with sanofi (b) in collaboration with teva and mitsubishi tanabe pharma (c) fda granted orphan drug designation (d) fda granted breakthrough therapy designation (e) fda granted fast track designation (f) sanofi did not opt-in to or elected not to continue to co-develop the product candidate. under the terms of our agreement, sanofi is entitled to receive royalties on any future sales of the product candidate. (g) we and the biomedical advanced research development authority ("barda") of the u.s. department of health and human services ("hhs") are parties to agreements whereby hhs provides certain funding to support research, development, and manufacturing of these antibodies. (h) studied as monotherapy and in combination with other antibodies and treatments (i) information in this column relates to u.s., eu, and japan regulatory submissions only (j) included as part of the extension phase of a trial coordinated by world health organization 10 table of contents additional information - marketed products studied in additional indications and product candidates in late-stage clinical development eylea eylea is a soluble fusion protein that acts as a vascular endothelial growth factor ("vegf") inhibitor, formulated as an injection for the eye. it is designed to block the growth of new blood vessels and decrease the ability of fluid to pass through blood vessels (vascular permeability) in the eye by blocking vegf-a and plgf, two growth factors involved in angiogenesis. dupixent (dupilumab) dupixent is a fully-human monoclonal antibody that inhibits the signaling pathway of il-4 and il-13. data from dupixent clinical trials have shown that il-4 and il-13 are key drivers of the type 2 inflammation that plays a major role in atopic dermatitis, asthma, and crswnp, as well as other immunological and inflammatory diseases. kevzara (sarilumab) kevzara is a fully-human monoclonal antibody that binds specifically to the il-6 receptor and inhibits il-6-mediated signaling. il-6 is a signaling protein produced in increased quantities in patients with ra and has been associated with disease activity, joint destruction, and other systemic problems. libtayo (cemiplimab) and regn1979 regeneron is developing a diverse and comprehensive oncology portfolio, including libtayo, which is being studied as monotherapy and in combination with other anti-cancer agents in various indications. libtayo is a fully-human monoclonal antibody targeting the immune checkpoint receptor pd-1. the pd-1/pd-l1 immune checkpoint pathway has emerged as a major mechanism by which cancers evade immune destruction. libtayo is also being studied by other companies in combination with their proprietary assets. regn1979 is an investigational bispecific monoclonal antibody designed to bridge t-cells and tumor cells. it is designed to trigger tumor killing by binding to both a protein expressed on b-cell cancers (cd20) and a component of the t-cell receptor ("tcr") complex (cd3). at the tumor site, it activates t-cells by engaging their cd3 molecules and promotes t-cell mediated killing of the cancer cells. praluent (alirocumab) praluent is a fully-human monoclonal antibody that inhibits the binding of pcsk9 to the ldl receptor. through inhibiting pcsk9, praluent increases the number of available ldl receptors on the surface of liver cells to clear ldl, which lowers ldl cholesterol levels in the blood. evinacumab evinacumab is an investigational, fully-human monoclonal antibody that specifically binds to and blocks angptl3. angptl3 plays a key role in regulating plasma lipid levels, including triglycerides, ldl cholesterol, and hdl cholesterol, through inhibition of lipase enzymes (lipoprotein lipase and endothelial lipase). pozelimab pozelimab is an investigational, fully-human monoclonal antibody designed to block complement factor c5 and prevent the destruction of red blood cells that cause the symptoms of pnh and other diseases mediated by abnormal complement pathway activity. pnh is an ultra-rare, chronic, life-threatening disease where genetic mutations cause hemolysis, resulting in a range of symptoms including fatigue, shortness of breath, and blood clots. pozelimab binds with high affinity to wild-type and variant human c5 and blocks its activity. garetosmab garetosmab is an investigational, fully-human monoclonal antibody that binds and neutralizes activin a, which is required for the development of additional bone outside the normal skeleton in patients with the ultra-rare genetic disorder, fop. the abnormal bone formation in soft tissue outside of the normal skeleton, a process known as heterotopic ossification, leads to loss of mobility and premature death in fop patients. garetosmab reduces the formation of heterotopic bone lesions by neutralizing the activin a protein. 11 table of contents fasinumab fasinumab is an investigational, fully-human monoclonal antibody that targets ngf, a protein that plays a central role in the regulation of pain signaling. ngf expression is elevated in many acute and chronic pain conditions and ngf blockade has demonstrated efficacy in clinical trials. targeting ngf is a potential new way to manage pain without resorting to opioids. regn-eb3 regn-eb3 is an investigational cocktail of three fully-human monoclonal antibodies that each bind to the ebola virus at different points, which may serve to increase efficacy, reduce the development of viral sequences that lead to resistance, and potentially enable utility in future outbreaks as viruses continue to evolve. regn-eb3 is being developed, tested, and manufactured through contracts awarded in 2015 and 2017 by barda, under the assistant secretary for preparedness and response within the u.s. department of health and human services. other programs our preclinical research programs include the areas of oncology/immuno-oncology, angiogenesis, ophthalmology, metabolic and related diseases, muscle diseases and disorders, inflammation and immune diseases, bone and cartilage, pain and neurobiology, cardiovascular diseases, infectious diseases, and diseases related to aging. research and development technologies many proteins that play an important role in biology and disease are secreted by cells or located on the cell surface. moreover, cells communicate through secreted factors and surface molecules. our scientists have developed two different technologies to make protein therapeutics that potently and specifically block, activate, or inhibit the action of specific cell surface or secreted molecules. the first technology fuses receptor components to the constant region of an antibody molecule to make a class of drugs we call "traps". eylea, zaltrap, and arcalyst are drugs generated using our trap technology. velocisuite is our second technology platform, which is used for discovering, developing, and producing fully human antibodies that can address both secreted and cell-surface targets. velocisuite velocisuite consists of velocimmune , velocigene , velocimouse , velocimab , veloci-bi , velocit , and other related technologies. the velocimmune mouse platform is utilized to produce fully human antibodies. velocimmune was generated by leveraging our velocigene technology (see below), in a process in which six megabases of mouse immune gene loci were replaced, or "humanized," with corresponding human immune gene loci. velocimmune mice can be used efficiently to generate fully human antibodies to targets of therapeutic interest. velocimmune and our entire velocisuite offer the potential to increase the speed and efficiency through which human antibody therapeutics may be discovered and validated, thereby improving the overall efficiency of our early stage drug development activities. we are utilizing the velocimmune technology to produce our next generation of drug candidates for preclinical and clinical development. our velocigene platform allows custom and precise manipulation of very large sequences of dna to produce highly customized alterations of a specified target gene, or genes, and accelerates the production of knock-out and transgenic expression models without using either positive/negative selection or isogenic dna. in producing knock-out models, a color or fluorescent marker may be substituted in place of the actual gene sequence, allowing for high-resolution visualization of precisely where the gene is active in the body during normal body functioning as well as in disease processes. for the optimization of preclinical development and pharmacology programs, velocigene offers the opportunity to humanize targets by replacing the mouse gene with the human homolog. thus, velocigene allows scientists to rapidly identify the physical and biological effects of deleting or over-expressing the target gene, as well as to characterize and test potential therapeutic molecules. our velocimouse technology platform allows for the direct and immediate generation of genetically altered mice from embryonic stem cells ("es cells"), thereby avoiding the lengthy process involved in generating and breeding knockout mice from chimeras. mice generated through this method are normal and healthy and exhibit a 100% germ-line transmission. furthermore, mice developed using our velocimouse technology are suitable for direct phenotyping or other studies. we have also developed our velocimab platform for the rapid screening of antibodies and rapid generation of expression cell lines for our traps and our velocimmune human antibodies. we have utilized our velocisuite technologies to develop a class of potential drug candidates, known as bi-specific antibodies. veloci-bi allows for the generation of full-length bi-specific antibodies similar to native antibodies that are amenable to production by standard antibody manufacturing techniques, and are likely to have favorable antibody-like pharmacokinetic properties. in the area of immunotherapies in oncology, we are exploring the use of bi-specific antibodies that target tumor antigens and the cd3 receptor on t-cells to harness the oncolytic properties of t-cells. our first such cd3 bi-specific antibody, regn1979, targets cd20. we are 12 table of contents exploring additional indications and applications for our bi-specific technologies, such as other cd3 bi-specific antibodies to muc16 (regn4018) and bcma (regn5458 and regn5459), as well as a new class of cd28 co-stimulatory bi-specifics, including an antibody that targets psma (regn5678). the velocit mouse extends our research and drug discovery capabilities into cell-mediated immunity and therapeutic tcrs for oncology and other indications. velocit was developed by using our velocigene technology to humanize genes encoding tcra and tcrb variable sequences, cd4 and cd8 co-receptors, 2m, and class-i and -ii major histocompatibility complexes. as a result, velocit mice generate fully human tcrs, providing for customized modeling of t-cell function in different diseases and a powerful platform for the discovery of unique tcr-based therapies. regeneron genetics center regeneron genetics center ("rgc"), a wholly owned subsidiary of regeneron pharmaceuticals, inc., leverages de-identified clinical, genomic, and molecular data from human volunteers to identify medically relevant associations in a blinded fashion designed to preserve patients' privacy. the objective of rgc is to expand the use of human genetics for discovering and validating genetic factors that cause or influence a range of diseases where there are major unmet medical needs, with the prospect of improving the drug discovery and development process. rgc is undertaking multiple approaches, including large population-based efforts as well as family- and founder-based approaches. rgc utilizes laboratory automation and innovative approaches to cloud computing to achieve high-quality throughput. central to the work of rgc is a collaboration with the geisinger health system of pennsylvania. geisinger collects samples from consented patient volunteers, while rgc performs sequencing and genotyping to generate de-identified genomic data. in addition, rgc has expanded on its foundational population-based collaboration with geisinger with a growing number of other organizations worldwide. in addition, rgc has formed a consortium to fund the generation of genetic exome sequence data from 500,000 volunteer participants who make up the uk biobank health resource. the current members of the consortium consist of abbvie inc., alnylam pharmaceuticals inc., astrazeneca plc, biogen inc., pfizer inc., millennium pharmaceuticals, inc. (a subsidiary of takeda pharmaceutical company unlimited), and bristol-myers squibb. the consortium members have each committed up to $10.0 million in funding for regeneron to sequence the uk biobank's samples, which is performed at the rgc facility. consortium members have a limited period of exclusive access to the sequencing data before the data are made available to other health researchers by uk biobank. researchers from the rgc discovered a potential new therapeutic target to reduce the risk of chronic liver disease and progression to more advanced stages of disease, such as nonalcoholic steatohepatitis ("nash"), by analyzing extensive genetic sequencing data linked with electronic health records. in 2018, we announced a publication describing this discovery in the new england journal of medicine , which identified for the first time a variant in the hsd17b13 gene that is associated with reduced risk of, or protection from, various chronic liver diseases for which there are currently no approved therapeutics. we are collaborating with alnylam to discover rna interference ("rnai") therapeutics for nash and potentially other related diseases. collaboration agreements collaborations with sanofi antibody we are collaborating with sanofi on the global development and commercialization of dupixent, praluent, kevzara, and regn3500 (the "antibody collaboration"). under the terms of the antibody license and collaboration agreement (the "lca"), following receipt of the first positive phase 3 trial results for a co-developed drug candidate, subsequent phase 3 trial-related costs for that drug candidate are shared 80% by sanofi and 20% by us. all other agreed-upon development costs incurred by both companies are funded 100% by sanofi. we are obligated to reimburse sanofi for 50% of worldwide development expenses that were fully funded by sanofi and 30% of shared phase 3 trial-related costs based on our share of collaboration profits from commercialization of collaboration products. however, we are only required to apply 10% of our share of the profits from the antibody collaboration in any calendar quarter to reimburse sanofi for these development costs. in january 2018, we and sanofi entered into a letter agreement (the "letter agreement") amending the lca in connection with, among other matters, the allocation of additional funds to certain proposed activities relating to dupilumab and regn3500 (collectively, the "dupilumab/regn3500 eligible investments"). pursuant to the letter agreement, we have agreed to allow sanofi to satisfy in whole or in part its funding obligations with respect to the dupilumab/regn3500 eligible investments for the quarterly periods commencing on january 1, 2018 and ending on september 30, 2020 by selling up to an aggregate of 600,000 shares (of which 495,948 currently remains available) of our common stock directly or indirectly owned by sanofi. refer to the " immuno-oncology " section below for further details regarding the letter agreement. 13 table of contents under our collaboration agreement, sanofi records product sales for commercialized products, and regeneron has the right to co-commercialize such products on a country-by-country basis. we have exercised our option to co-commercialize dupixent, praluent, and kevzara in the united states, and have exercised our option to co-commercialize dupixent in certain countries outside the united states. we currently anticipate commencing co-commercialization of dupixent outside the united states at the end of 2020. we supply certain commercial bulk product to sanofi. we and sanofi equally share profits and losses from sales within the united states. we and sanofi share profits outside the united states on a sliding scale based on sales starting at 65% (sanofi)/35% (us) and ending at 55% (sanofi)/45% (us), and share losses outside the united states at 55% (sanofi)/45% (us). in addition to profit and loss sharing, we are entitled to receive up to an aggregate of $250.0 million in milestone payments upon achievement of specified aggregate annual sales of antibodies (subject to this agreement) outside the united states on a rolling twelve-month basis. the company will be entitled to receive the first sales milestone payment from sanofi, in the amount of $50.0 million, when such sales outside the united states exceed $1.0 billion. in december 2019, we and sanofi announced our intent to restructure the antibody collaboration for kevzara and praluent and enter into a royalty-based arrangement. under the proposed terms of the agreement, sanofi is expected to gain sole global rights to kevzara and sole rights to praluent outside of the united states. regeneron is expected to gain sole u.s. rights to praluent. under the proposed terms, each party will be solely responsible for funding development and commercialization expenses in their respective territories. in connection with the proposed agreement, the company has eliminated certain commercialization activities and related headcount. the proposed agreement, which is expected to be finalized in the first quarter of 2020, will not impact the companies' existing collaboration relating to dupixent and regn3500. immuno-oncology we are collaborating with sanofi on the development and commercialization of antibody-based cancer treatments in the field of immuno-oncology (the "io collaboration"). the io collaboration is governed by an amended and restated immuno-oncology discovery and development agreement (the "amended io discovery agreement"), and an immuno-oncology license and collaboration agreement (the "io license and collaboration agreement"). effective december 31, 2018, the company and sanofi entered into the amended io discovery agreement, which narrowed the scope of the existing discovery and development activities conducted by the company ("io development activities") under the original 2015 immuno-oncology discovery and development agreement (the "2015 io discovery agreement") to developing therapeutic bispecific antibodies targeting (i) bcma and cd3 (the "bcmaxcd3 program") and (ii) muc16 and cd3 (the "muc16xcd3 program") through clinical proof-of-concept. the amended io discovery agreement provided for sanofi's payment of $461.9 million to the company as consideration for (x) the termination of the 2015 io discovery agreement, (y) the prepayment for certain io development activities regarding the bcmaxcd3 program and the muc16xcd3 program, and (z) the reimbursement of costs incurred by the company under the 2015 io discovery agreement during the fourth quarter of 2018. under the terms of the amended io discovery agreement, the company is required to conduct development activities with respect to (i) the bcmaxcd3 program through the earlier of clinical proof-of-concept or the expenditure of $70.0 million (the "bcmaxcd3 program costs cap") and (ii) the muc16xcd3 program through the earlier of clinical proof-of-concept or the expenditure of $50.0 million (the "muc16xcd3 program costs cap"); provided that under certain circumstances, sanofi will have the option to increase the muc16xcd3 program costs cap to $70.0 million by making a payment to the company in the amount of $20.0 million. pursuant to the amended io discovery agreement, we are primarily responsible for conducting the io development activities (other than certain clinical trials that may be funded separately by sanofi), including antibody development, preclinical activities, toxicology studies, manufacture of clinical supplies, filing of investigational new drug applications ("inds"), and clinical development through proof-of-concept. we are obligated to reimburse sanofi for half of the development costs they funded that are attributable to clinical development of antibody product candidates under the amended io discovery agreement from our share of profits from commercialized io collaboration products. with regard to the bcmaxcd3 program and the muc16xcd3 program, when (i) clinical proof-of-concept is established, (ii) the applicable program costs cap is reached, or (iii) in certain other limited circumstances, sanofi will have the option to license rights to the product candidate and other antibodies targeting the same targets for, with regard to bcmaxcd3, immuno-oncology indications, and with regard to muc16xcd3, all indications, pursuant to the io license and collaboration agreement, as amended. if sanofi does not exercise its option to license rights to a product candidate, we will retain the exclusive right to develop and commercialize such product candidate and sanofi will receive a royalty on sales. pursuant to the amended io discovery agreement, the parties agreed that (i) if sanofi exercises its option with respect to a bcmaxcd3 program antibody, sanofi will lead the development and global commercialization of such bcmaxcd3 program antibody; and (ii) if sanofi exercises its option with respect to a muc16xcd3 program antibody, (x) we will lead the development of such muc16xcd3 program antibody and commercialization of such muc16xcd3 program antibody within the united states and (y) sanofi will lead the commercialization of such muc16xcd3 program antibody outside of the united states. 14 table of contents in connection with the io license and collaboration agreement, sanofi made a $375.0 million non-refundable up-front payment to us. if sanofi exercises its option to license rights to a bcmaxcd3 program antibody or muc16xcd3 program antibody thereunder, it will co-develop these drug candidates with us through product approval under the terms of the io license and collaboration agreement. sanofi will fund development costs up front for a bcmaxcd3 program antibody and we will reimburse half of the total development costs for such antibody from our share of future io collaboration profits to the extent they are sufficient for this purpose. in addition, we and sanofi will share equally, on an ongoing basis, the development costs for a muc16xcd3 program antibody. each party will have the right to co-commercialize licensed products in countries where it is not the lead commercialization party. the parties will share equally in profits and losses in connection with the commercialization of collaboration products. we are obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to supply clinical requirements of each drug candidate under the io license and collaboration agreement until commercial supplies of that io drug candidate are being manufactured. under the terms of the io license and collaboration agreement, the parties are also co-developing and co-commercializing libtayo (cemiplimab), an antibody targeting pd-1. we have principal control over the development of libtayo, and the parties share equally, on an ongoing basis, development and commercialization expenses for libtayo. under the letter agreement, we have agreed to allow sanofi to satisfy in whole or in part its funding obligation with respect to libtayo development costs for the quarterly periods commencing on october 1, 2017 and ending on september 30, 2020 by selling up to an aggregate of 800,000 shares (of which 373,880 currently remains available) of our common stock directly or indirectly owned by sanofi. if sanofi desires to sell shares of our common stock during the term of the letter agreement to satisfy a portion or all of its funding obligations for the libtayo development and/or, as noted above, dupilumab/regn3500 eligible investments, we may elect to purchase, in whole or in part, such shares from sanofi. if we do not elect to purchase such shares, sanofi may sell the applicable number of shares (subject to certain daily and quarterly limits) in one or more open-market transactions. refer to the "antibody" section above for a description of share transactions related to dupilumab/regn3500 eligible investments. with regard to libtayo, we lead commercialization activities in the united states, while sanofi leads commercialization activities outside of the united states and the parties equally share profits from worldwide sales. sanofi has exercised its option to co-commercialize libtayo in the united states. we will be entitled to a milestone payment of $375.0 million in the event that global sales of certain licensed products targeting pd-1 (including libtayo), together with sales of any other products licensed under the io license and collaboration agreement and sold for use in combination with any of such licensed products targeting pd-1, equal or exceed $2.0 billion in any consecutive twelve-month period. collaboration with bayer eylea outside the united states since 2006, we and bayer have been parties to a license and collaboration agreement for the global development and commercialization outside the united states of eylea. under the agreement, we and bayer collaborate on, and share the costs of, the development of eylea. bayer markets eylea outside the united states, where, for countries other than japan, the companies share equally in profits and losses from sales of eylea. in japan, we are entitled to receive a tiered percentage of between 33.5% and 40.0% of eylea net sales through 2021, and thereafter, the companies will share equally in profits and losses from the sales of eylea. we are obligated to reimburse bayer for 50% of the development costs that it has incurred under the agreement from our share of the collaboration profits (including payments to us based on sales in japan). the reimbursement payment in any quarter will equal 5% of the then outstanding repayment obligation, but never more than our share of the collaboration profits in the quarter unless we elect to reimburse bayer at a faster rate. within the united states, we retain exclusive commercialization rights to eylea and are entitled to all profits from such sales. collaboration with teva fasinumab in 2016, we entered into a collaboration agreement with teva to develop and commercialize fasinumab globally, excluding certain asian countries that are subject to our collaboration agreement with mitsubishi tanabe pharma corporation ("mtpc"). in connection with the agreement, teva made a $250.0 million non-refundable up-front payment. we lead global development activities, and the parties will share equally, on an ongoing basis, development costs under a global development plan. as of december 31, 2019, we had earned an aggregate of $120.0 million of development milestones from teva, and we are entitled to receive up to an aggregate of $340.0 million in additional development milestones and up to an aggregate of $1,890.0 million in contingent payments upon achievement of specified annual net sales amounts. we are responsible for the manufacture and supply of fasinumab globally. within the united states, we will lead commercialization activities, and the parties will share equally in any profits or losses in connection with commercialization of fasinumab. in the territory outside of the united states, teva will lead commercialization 15 table of contents activities and we will supply product to teva at a tiered purchase price, which is calculated as a percentage of net sales of the product (subject to adjustment in certain circumstances). collaboration with alnylam in april 2019, we and alnylam pharmaceuticals, inc. entered into a global, strategic collaboration to discover, develop, and commercialize rnai therapeutics for a broad range of diseases by addressing therapeutic disease targets expressed in the eye and central nervous system ("cns"), in addition to a select number of targets expressed in the liver. the collaboration is governed by a master collaboration agreement (the "master agreement") (including the form of a license agreement and a co-commercialization collaboration agreement). under the terms of the master agreement, we made an up-front payment of $400.0 million to alnylam. for each program, we will provide alnylam with a specified amount of funding at program initiation and at lead candidate designation, and alnylam is eligible to receive up to $200.0 million in clinical proof-of-principle milestones for eye or cns programs. under the collaboration, the parties plan to perform discovery research until designation of lead candidates. following designation of a lead candidate, the parties may further advance such lead candidate under either a license agreement or a co-commercialization collaboration agreement structure. the initial target nomination and discovery period is five years (which may under certain situations automatically be extended for up to seven years in the aggregate) (the "research term"). in addition, we have an option to extend the research term for an additional five-year period for a research extension fee ranging from $200.0 million to $400.0 million; the actual amount of the fee will be determined based on the acceptance of one or more inds (or their equivalent in certain other countries) for programs in the eye and cns. at the stage of designation of a lead candidate for cns programs and liver programs, the parties have alternating rights to be a lead party for collaboration products. at the stage of designation of a lead candidate for eye programs, we have the sole right to take the product forward as a licensee. the lead party is required to take the program forward under the license agreement structure unless the other party exercises its rights to opt-in to a co-commercialization collaboration agreement, in which case the lead party is required to take the program forward under the co-commercialization collaboration agreement structure. alnylam does not have rights to opt-in to a co-commercialization collaboration agreement for eye programs. under a license agreement, the lead party is designated as the licensee and has the right to develop and commercialize the collaboration product under such program. the licensee will be responsible for its own costs and expenses incurred in connection with the development and commercialization of the collaboration products under the license agreement. the licensee will pay to the licensor certain development and/or commercialization milestone payments totaling up to $150.0 million for each collaboration product. in addition, following the first commercial sale of the applicable collaboration product under a license agreement, the licensee is required to make certain tiered royalty payments, ranging from low double-digits up to 20%, to the licensor based on the aggregate annual net sales of the collaboration product, subject to customary reductions. for cns programs and liver programs, as soon as a party is designated as a lead party, the other company has rights to opt-in to a co-commercialization collaboration agreement as a participating party. under a co-commercialization collaboration agreement, the party designated as the lead party has operational responsibility and final decision-making authority on development and commercialization of the program and the parties will split profits and share costs equally, subject to certain co-funding opt-outs at specified clinical trial phases or under other conditions. if a party exercises its co-funding opt-out right, the lead party will be required to make certain tiered royalty payments, ranging from low double-digits up to 20%, to the other party based on the aggregate annual net sales of the collaboration product and the timing of the exercise of the co-funding opt-out right, subject to customary reductions. if the non-lead party does not initially opt-in to a co-commercialization collaboration agreement, the lead party has the right to take the program forward under a license agreement structure. under the collaboration, when we are the licensee under a license agreement or the lead party under a co-commercialization collaboration agreement, alnylam will be responsible for the manufacture and supply of the product to us for phase 1 and phase 2 clinical trials. in connection with the collaboration, we and alnylam also entered into a stock purchase agreement. pursuant to the terms of the stock purchase agreement, we purchased 4,444,445 shares of alnylam common stock for aggregate cash consideration of $400.0 million. in august 2019, the parties entered into a co-commercialization collaboration agreement for a silencing rna ("sirna") therapeutic targeting the c5 component of the human complement pathway being developed by alnylam, with alnylam as the lead party, and a license agreement for a combination product consisting of such sirna therapeutic and a fully human monoclonal antibody targeting c5 being developed by us, with us as the licensee. the c5 sirna co-commercialization collaboration agreement is consistent with the financial terms contained in the form of the existing co-commercialization collaboration agreement with alnylam. the c5 sirna license agreement contains a flat low double-digit royalty payable to alnylam on our potential future net sales of the combination product only subject to customary reductions, as well as up to $325.0 million in commercial milestones. 16 table of contents manufacturing we currently manufacture bulk drug materials and products at our manufacturing facilities in rensselaer, new york and limerick, ireland. these facilities consist of owned and leased research, manufacturing, office, laboratory, and warehouse space. in addition, during 2020, we expect to continue the construction of a fill/finish facility in rensselaer, new york. we currently have approximately 100,000 liters of cell culture capacity at our rensselaer facility, and are approved by the fda and other regulatory agencies to manufacture our bulk drug materials and products. in addition, we currently have approximately 130,000 liters of cell culture capacity at our limerick facility which has received certain manufacturing approvals by regulatory agencies, including the fda, and is in the process of further validation, as required by regulatory authorities, for the manufacture of our bulk drug materials and products. certain bulk drug materials and products are also manufactured by our collaborators, and certain raw materials or products necessary for the manufacture and formulation of our products and product candidates are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. in addition, we rely on our collaborators or third parties to perform packaging, filling, finishing, labeling, distribution, laboratory testing, and other services related to the manufacture of our products and product candidates, and to supply various raw materials and other products. see part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to manufacturing and supply" for further information. among the conditions for regulatory marketing approval of a medicine is the requirement that the prospective manufacturer's quality control and manufacturing procedures conform to the good manufacturing practice ("gmp") regulations of the health authority. in complying with standards set forth in these regulations, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money, and effort in the areas of production and quality control to ensure full technical compliance. manufacturing establishments, both foreign and domestic, are also subject to inspections by or under the authority of the fda and by other national, federal, state, and local agencies. sales and marketing we have a new products marketing and planning group, a market research group, and a market access group to evaluate commercial opportunities for our targets and drug candidates, assess the competitive environment, analyze the commercial potential of our product portfolio, and prepare for market launch of new products. these groups are fully functional to support our product and product candidates that we are independently developing and/or commercializing, and work closely with our collaborators for co-developed products to create marketing plans and forecasts and to establish and execute pre-launch market development programs. we also have a full-service commercialization group to handle various aspects of our commercial programs. the group includes experienced professionals in the fields of marketing, communications, professional education, patient education and advocacy, reimbursement and market access, trade and distribution, commercial operations, commercial analytics, market research, and forecasting. moreover, for our marketed products, we have hired, trained, and deployed a field-based organization including regional directors, medical specialists, and reimbursement managers, each typically with a number of years of experience in the biopharmaceutical industry in a variety of therapeutic areas including oncology, ophthalmology, inflammation, and cardiovascular. we have approximately 500 field-based employees in the united states. customers we sell eylea and libtayo in the united states to several distributors and specialty pharmacies. we sell arcalyst in the united states to two specialty pharmacies. under these distribution models, the distributors and specialty pharmacies generally take physical delivery of the product. for eylea and libtayo, the distributors and specialty pharmacies generally sell the product directly to healthcare providers, whereas for arcalyst, the specialty pharmacies sell the product directly to patients. we had sales to two customers (besse medical, a subsidiary of amerisourcebergen corporation, and mckesson corporation) that each accounted for more than 10% of total gross product revenue for the year ended december 31, 2019. on a combined basis, our product sales to these customers accounted for approximately 90% of our gross product revenue for the year ended december 31, 2019. we are also a party to collaboration agreements with bayer and sanofi, whereby our collaborator is responsible for recording product sales of eylea outside the united states and global sales of dupixent, praluent, and kevzara, respectively (refer to "collaboration agreements" section above for additional information). 17 table of contents competition we face substantial competition from pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and chemical companies. many of our competitors have substantially greater research, preclinical and clinical product development, manufacturing capabilities, and financial, marketing, and human resources than we do. competition from smaller competitors may also be or become more significant if those competitors acquire or discover patentable inventions, form collaborative arrangements, or merge with large pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies. even if we are able to commercialize additional product candidates, one or more of our competitors may have brought a competitive product to market earlier than us or may have patent protection that dominates or adversely affects our activities or products. our ability to compete depends, to a great extent, on how fast we can develop safe and effective product candidates, complete clinical testing and approval processes, and supply commercial quantities of the product to the market. competition among product candidates approved for sale is based on efficacy, safety, reliability, availability, price, patent position, and other factors. marketed products the table below provides an overview of the current competitive landscape for the key products marketed by us and/or our collaborators under our collaboration agreements with them in such products' currently approved indications. the table below is provided for illustrative purposes only and is not exhaustive. for additional information regarding the substantial competition these marketed products face, including potential future competition from product candidates in clinical development, see also part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to commercialization of our marketed products, product candidates, and new indications for our marketed products - the commercial success of our products and product candidates is subject to significant competition. " 18 table of contents marketed product competitor product competitor indication territory (1) eylea lucentis (ranibizumab) novartis ag and genentech/roche wet amd, dme, macular edema following rvo (including crvo and brvo), diabetic retinopathy, mcnv, and rop worldwide avastin (bevacizumab) (off-label and repackaged) genentech/roche wet amd, dme, and macular edema following rvo worldwide beovu (brolucizumab) novartis wet amd united states ozurdex (dexamethasone intravitreal implant) allergan, plc dme, rvo worldwide iluvien (fluocinolone acetonide intravitreal implant) alimera sciences, inc. dme worldwide conbercept chengdu kanghong pharmaceutical group co., ltd. wet amd, mcnv china dupixent eucrisa (crisaborole) pfizer mild-to-moderate atopic dermatitis united states xolair (omalizumab) roche/novartis asthma worldwide nucala (mepolizumab) glaxosmithkline ("gsk") asthma worldwide cinqair (reslizumab) teva asthma united states, eu fasenra (benralizumab) astrazeneca asthma worldwide libtayo keytruda (pembrolizumab) merck &amp; co., inc. various cancers worldwide opdivo (nivolumab) bristol-myers squibb various cancers worldwide tecentriq (atezolizumab) roche various cancers worldwide imfinzi (durvalumab) astrazeneca various cancers worldwide bavencio (avelumab) pfizer/merck kgaa various cancers worldwide praluent repatha (evolocumab) amgen (1) reduce the risk of myocardial infarction, stroke, and coronary revascularization in adults with established cardiovascular disease, (2) primary hyperlipidemia, and (3) hofh worldwide kevzara actemra (tocilizumab) genentech/roche/ chugai pharmaceutical co., ltd. rheumatoid arthritis worldwide orencia (abatacept) bristol-myers squibb rheumatoid arthritis worldwide xeljanz (tofacitinib) pfizer rheumatoid arthritis worldwide olumiant (baricitinib) eli lilly/incyte rheumatoid arthritis worldwide rinvoq (upadacitinib) abbvie rheumatoid arthritis worldwide (1) this table focuses primarily on the united states, eu, and japan. "worldwide" indicates that the relevant product is approved in at least the united states, eu, and japan. 19 table of contents antibodies in development our antibody-based clinical candidates in development are all fully-human antibodies which were generated using our velocimmune technology. our antibody generation technologies and clinical candidates face competition from many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies using various technologies. numerous other companies are developing therapeutic antibody products. companies have generated therapeutic products that are currently in development or on the market that are derived from recombinant dna that comprise human antibody sequences. we are also aware of several companies developing or marketing small molecules that may compete with our antibody product candidates in various indications, if such product candidates obtain regulatory approval in those indications. for additional information regarding our antibody programs and the substantial competition they face, see also part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to commercialization of our marketed products, product candidates, and new indications for our marketed products - the commercial success of our products and product candidates is subject to significant competition ." other areas many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are attempting to discover new therapeutics for indications in which we invest substantial time and resources. in these and related areas, intellectual property rights have been sought and certain rights have been granted to competitors and potential competitors of ours, and we may be at a substantial competitive disadvantage in such areas as a result of, among other things, our lack of experience, trained personnel, and expertise. a number of corporate and academic competitors are involved in the discovery and development of novel therapeutics that are the focus of other research or development programs we are now conducting. some of these competitors are currently conducting advanced preclinical and clinical research programs in these areas. these and other competitors may have established substantial intellectual property and other competitive advantages. if any of these or other competitors announces a successful clinical study involving a product that may be competitive with one of our product candidates or the grant of marketing approval by a regulatory agency for a competitive product, such developments may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, cash flows, or future prospects. we also compete with academic institutions, governmental agencies, and other public or private research organizations, which conduct research, seek patent protection, and establish collaborative arrangements for the development and marketing of products that would provide royalties or other consideration for use of their technology. these institutions are becoming more active in seeking patent protection and licensing arrangements to collect royalties or other consideration for use of the technology they have developed. products developed in this manner may compete directly with products we develop. we also compete with others in acquiring technology from these institutions, agencies, and organizations. patents, trademarks, and trade secrets we rely on a combination of intellectual property laws, including patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret, and domain name protection laws, as well as confidentiality and license agreements, to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain patents, maintain trade secret protection, and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties (see part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to intellectual property and market exclusivity - we may be restricted in our development, manufacturing, and/or commercialization activities by patents or other proprietary rights of others, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed such patents or rights "; and note 16 to our consolidated financial statements). our policy is to file patent applications to protect technology, inventions, and improvements that we consider important to our business and operations. we hold an ownership interest in a number of issued patents in the united states and foreign countries with respect to our products and technologies. in addition, we hold an ownership interest in thousands of patent applications in the united states and foreign countries. our patent portfolio includes granted patents and pending patent applications covering our velocisuite technologies, including our velocimmune mouse platform which produces fully human antibodies. our issued patents covering these technologies generally expire between 2020 and 2030. however, we continue to file patent applications directed to improvements to these technology platforms. our patent portfolio also includes issued patents and pending applications relating to commercialized products and our product candidates in clinical development. these patents cover the proteins and dna encoding the proteins, manufacturing patents, method of use patents, and pharmaceutical compositions. the following table describes our u.s. patents and european patents ("ep") that we currently consider of primary importance to our marketed products, including the territory, patent number, general subject matter class, and expected expiration dates. the noted expiration dates include any patent term adjustments. certain of these patents may also be entitled to term extensions. we continue 20 table of contents to pursue additional patents and patent term extensions in the united states and other jurisdictions covering various aspects of our products that may, if issued, extend exclusivity beyond the expiration of the patents listed in the table below. one or more patents with the same or earlier expiry date may fall under the same "general subject matter class" for certain products and are not separately listed. product molecule territory patent no. general subject matter class expiration eylea aflibercept us 7,070,959 composition of matter june 16, 2023 * us 8,092,803 formulation june 21, 2027 us 9,254,338 methods of treatment may 22, 2032 us 10,406,226 method of manufacturing march 22, 2026 ep 1183353 composition of matter may 23, 2020 ** ep 1183353 supplementary protection certificate (may 23, 2025) ** ep 2364691 formulation june 14, 2027 ep 1544299 methods of treatment may 23, 2020 dupixent *** dupilumab us 7,608,693 composition of matter march 28, 2031 **** us 8,945,559 formulation october 17, 2032 us 8,075,887 methods of treatment april 17, 2028 us 8,337,839 methods of treatment october 2, 2027 us 9,290,574 methods of treatment july 10, 2034 us 9,574,004 methods of treatment december 22, 2033 ep 2356151 composition of matter october 27, 2029 ** ep 2356151 supplementary protection certificate (september 28, 2032) ** libtayo cemiplimab us 9,987,500 composition of matter september 18, 2035 praluent *** alirocumab us 8,062,640 composition of matter december 15, 2029 us 10,023,654 composition of matter december 15, 2029 us 10,472,425 formulation july 27, 2032 us 8,357,371 methods of treatment december 21, 2029 us 9,550,837 methods of treatment december 15, 2029 us 9,724,411 methods of treatment january 15, 2031 ep 2358756 composition of matter december 15, 2029 ** ep 2358756 supplementary protection certificate (september 25, 2030) ** kevzara sarilumab us 7,582,298 composition of matter january 4, 2028 us 10,072,086 formulation september 19, 2031 us 8,080,248 methods of treatment june 1, 2027 us 8,568,721 methods of treatment june 1, 2027 ep 2041177 composition of matter june 1, 2027 ** ep 2041177 supplementary protection certificate (june 1, 2032) ** ep 2766039 methods of treatment october 10, 2032 * a patent term extension has been granted by the u.s. patent and trademark office, extending the original patent term (may 23, 2020), insofar as it covers eylea, to june 16, 2023. ** supplementary protection certificates ("spcs") are pending and/or have been granted in various european countries, extending the original patent terms in those countries, where granted, to the applicable dates indicated in parentheses. *** see note 16 to our consolidated financial statements for information regarding the patent infringement proceedings relating to dupixent and praluent. **** a patent term extension has been granted by the u.s. patent and trademark office, extending the original patent term (october 2, 2027), insofar as it covers dupixent, to march 28, 2031. 21 table of contents in addition, in the united states and certain other countries, our competitive position may be enhanced due to the availability of market exclusivity under relevant law (for additional information regarding market exclusivity, see part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to intellectual property and market exclusivity - loss or limitation of patent rights, and new regulatory pathways for biosimilar competition, could reduce the duration of market exclusivity for our products "). the effect of expiration of a patent relating to a particular product also depends upon other factors, such as the nature of the market and the position of the product in it, the growth of the market, the complexities and economics of the process for manufacture of the active ingredient of the product, and the requirements of new drug provisions of the federal food, drug and cosmetic act or similar laws and regulations in other countries. we also are the nonexclusive licensee of a number of additional patents and patent applications. these include a license agreement with bristol-myers squibb, e. r. squibb &amp; sons, l.l.c., and ono pharmaceutical co., ltd. to obtain a license under certain patents owned and/or exclusively licensed by one or more of these parties that includes the right to develop and sell libtayo. under the agreement, we and sanofi pay royalties of 8.0% on worldwide sales of libtayo through december 31, 2023, and royalties of 2.5% from january 1, 2024 through december 31, 2026. the royalties are shared equally by us and sanofi. patent law relating to the patentability and scope of claims in the biotechnology field is evolving and our patent rights are subject to this additional uncertainty. the degree of patent protection that will be afforded to our products in the united states and other important commercial markets is uncertain and is dependent upon the scope of protection decided upon by the patent offices, courts, and governments in these countries. there is no certainty that our existing patents or others, if obtained, will provide us protection from competition or provide commercial benefit. others may independently develop similar products or processes to those developed by us, duplicate any of our products or processes or, if patents are issued to us, design around any products and processes covered by our patents. we expect to continue, when appropriate, to file product and process applications with respect to our inventions. however, we may not file any such applications or, if filed, the patents may not be issued. patents issued to or licensed by us may be infringed by the products or processes of others. we seek to file and maintain trademarks around the world based on commercial activities in most jurisdictions where we have, or desire to have, a business presence for a particular product or service. trademark protection varies in accordance with local law, and continues in some countries as long as the trademark is used and in other countries as long as the trademark is registered. trademark registrations generally are for fixed but renewable terms. defense and enforcement of our intellectual property rights is expensive and time consuming, even if the outcome is favorable to us. it is possible that patents issued or licensed to us will be successfully challenged, that a court may find that we are infringing validly issued patents of third parties, or that we may have to alter or discontinue the development of our products or pay licensing fees to take into account patent rights of third parties (see part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to intellectual property and market exclusivity - we may be restricted in our development, manufacturing, and/or commercialization activities by patents or other proprietary rights of others, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed such patents or rights "; and note 16 to our consolidated financial statements). government regulation regulation by government authorities in the united states and foreign countries is a significant factor in the research, development, manufacture, and marketing of our products and our product candidates. a summary of the primary areas of government regulation that are relevant to our business is provided below. for a description of material regulatory risks we face, also refer to part i, item 1a. "risk factors." preclinical requirements the activities required before a product candidate may be marketed in the united states begin with preclinical tests. preclinical tests include laboratory evaluations and animal studies to assess the potential safety and efficacy of the product candidate and its formulations. certain preclinical trials must comply with the fda's good laboratory practice requirements ("glps") and the u.s. department of agriculture's animal welfare act. the results of these studies must be submitted to the fda as part of an ind, which must be reviewed by the fda before proposed clinical testing can begin. in other countries, the data are reviewed by regulatory authorities as part of clinical trial applications. the fda or other regulatory authorities may ask for additional data in order to begin a clinical study. product approval all of our product candidates require regulatory approval before they can be commercialized. in particular, human therapeutic products are subject to rigorous preclinical and clinical trials and other pre-market approval requirements by the fda and foreign authorities. the structure and substance of the fda and foreign pharmaceutical regulatory practices may evolve over time. the ultimate outcome and impact of such developments cannot be predicted. 22 table of contents typically, clinical testing involves a three-phase process. in phase 1, trials are usually conducted with a small number of healthy volunteers to determine the early safety profile of the product candidate. in phase 2, clinical trials are conducted with subjects afflicted with a specific disease or disorder to provide enough data to evaluate the preliminary safety, tolerability, and efficacy of different potential doses of the product candidate. in phase 3, larger clinical trials are conducted with patients afflicted with the specific disease or disorder in order to provide enough data to understand the efficacy and safety profile of the product candidate, as required by the fda. if concerns arise about the safety of the product candidate, the fda or other regulatory authorities can stop clinical trials by placing them on a "clinical hold" pending receipt of additional data, which can result in a delay or termination of a clinical development program. the results of the preclinical and clinical testing of a biologic product candidate are then submitted to the fda in the form of a bla for evaluation to determine whether the product candidate may be approved for commercial sale under the public health service act. under the prescription drug user fee act, we typically must pay fees to the fda for review of any bla, which can exceed $2 million per filing. in responding to a bla, the fda may grant marketing approval, request additional information, or deny the application. before approving a new drug or biologic product, the fda also requires that the facilities at which the product will be manufactured or advanced through the supply chain be in compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cgmp, requirements and regulations governing, among other things, the manufacture, shipment, and storage of the product. the fda also can audit the sponsor of the bla to determine if the clinical studies were conducted in compliance with current good clinical practice, or cgcp, requirements. any approval required by the fda for any of our product candidates may not be obtained on a timely basis, or at all. the designation of a clinical trial as being of a particular phase is not necessarily indicative that such a trial will be sufficient to satisfy the parameters of a particular phase, and a clinical trial may contain elements of more than one phase notwithstanding the designation of the trial as being of a particular phase. the results of preclinical studies or early stage clinical trials may not predict long-term safety or efficacy of our compounds when they are tested or used more broadly in humans. approval of a product candidate by comparable regulatory authorities in foreign countries is generally required prior to commencement of marketing of the product in those countries. the approval procedure varies among countries and may involve different or additional testing, and the time required to obtain such approval may differ from that required for fda approval. approval by a regulatory authority in one jurisdiction does not guarantee approval by comparable regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions. various federal, state, and foreign statutes and regulations also govern or influence the research, manufacture, safety, labeling, storage, record keeping, marketing, transport, and other aspects of developing and commercializing pharmaceutical product candidates. the lengthy process of seeking these approvals and the compliance with applicable statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial resources. any failure by us or our collaborators or licensees to obtain, or any delay in obtaining, regulatory approvals could adversely affect the manufacturing or marketing of our products and our ability to receive product or royalty revenue. for additional information regarding u.s. and foreign regulatory approval processes and requirements, see part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to maintaining approval of our marketed products and the development and obtaining approval of our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products - obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval for drug products is costly, time-consuming, and highly uncertain. " post-approval regulation the fda and comparable regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions may also require us to conduct additional clinical trials or to make certain changes related to a product after granting approval of the product. the fda has the explicit authority to require postmarketing studies (also referred to as post-approval or phase 4 studies), labeling changes based on new safety information, and compliance with fda-approved risk evaluation and mitigation strategies. following approval, the fda regulates the marketing and promotion of our products, which must comply with the food, drug, and cosmetic act and applicable fda regulations and standards thereunder. the fda's review of promotional activities includes, but is not limited to, healthcare provider-directed and direct-to-consumer advertising as well as sales representatives' communications. the fda may take enforcement action for promoting unapproved uses of a product or other violations of its advertising and promotion laws and regulations. see part i, item 1a. "risk factors - regulatory and litigation risks - if we market and sell approved products in a way that violates federal or state healthcare laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties ." adverse-event reporting and submission of periodic reports are required following marketing approval. the fda requires bla holders to employ a system for obtaining and reviewing safety information, adverse events, and product complaints associated with each drug and to submit safety reports to the fda, with expedited reporting timelines in certain situations. based on new safety information after approval, the fda can, among other things, mandate product labeling changes, require new post-marketing studies, impose or modify a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy for the product, or suspend or withdraw approval of the product. we may be subject to audits by the fda and other regulatory authorities to ensure that we are complying with the applicable requirements. 23 table of contents in addition, we and our third-party suppliers are required to maintain compliance with cgmps, and are subject to inspections by the fda or comparable regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions to confirm such compliance. changes of suppliers or modifications of methods of manufacturing may require amending our application(s) to the fda or such comparable foreign regulatory authorities and acceptance of the change by the fda or such comparable foreign regulatory authorities prior to release of product(s). fda regulations also require investigation and correction of any deviations from cgmp and impose reporting and documentation requirements upon us and our third-party suppliers. prescription drug manufacturers in the u.s. must comply with applicable provisions of the drug supply chain security act and provide and receive product tracing information, maintain appropriate licenses, ensure they only work with other properly licensed entities, and have procedures in place to identify and properly handle suspect and illegitimate products. we may also be subject to state regulations related to the manufacturing and distribution of our products. failure to comply with these laws and regulations may lead the fda and comparable regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions to take regulatory action, which could include ordering the suspension of manufacturing or withdrawing fda approval of a product. pricing and reimbursement sales in the united states of our marketed products are dependent, in large part, on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payors, including private payor healthcare and insurance programs, health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit management companies, and government programs such as medicare and medicaid. sales of our marketed products in other countries are dependent, in large part, on coverage and reimbursement mechanisms and programs administered by health authorities in those countries. see part i, item 1a. "risk factors - risks related to commercialization of our marketed products, product candidates, and new indications for our marketed products - sales of our marketed products are dependent on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payors, and changes to such reimbursement may materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. " we participate in, and have certain price reporting obligations to, the medicaid drug rebate program, several state medicaid supplemental rebate programs, and other governmental pricing programs. we also have obligations to report the average sales price for certain of our drugs to the medicare program. under the medicaid drug rebate program, we are required to pay a rebate to each state medicaid program for our covered outpatient drugs that are dispensed to medicaid beneficiaries and paid for by a state medicaid program as a condition of having federal funds being made available to the states for our drugs under medicaid and part b of the medicare program. medicaid is a joint federal and state program that is administered by the states for low income and disabled beneficiaries. medicaid rebates are based on pricing data reported by us on a monthly and quarterly basis to the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services ("cms"), the federal agency that administers the medicaid and medicare programs. these data include the average manufacturer price and, in the case of innovator products, the best price for each drug which, in general, represents the lowest price available from the manufacturer to any entity in the u.s. in any pricing structure, calculated to include all sales and associated rebates, discounts, and other price concessions. the amount of the rebate is adjusted upward if average manufacture price increases more than inflation (measured by reference to the consumer price index - urban). if we become aware that our reporting for a prior quarter was incorrect, or has changed as a result of recalculation of the pricing data, we are obligated to resubmit the corrected data for up to three years after those data originally were due, which revisions could affect our rebate liability for prior quarters. the federal patient protection and affordable care act (the "ppaca") made significant changes to the medicaid drug rebate program, and cms issued a final regulation, which became effective on april 1, 2016, to implement the changes to the medicaid drug rebate program under the ppaca. medicare is a federal program that is administered by the federal government that covers individuals age 65 and over or that are disabled as well as those with certain health conditions. medicare part b generally covers drugs that must be administered by physicians or other health care practitioners; are provided in connection with certain durable medical equipment; or consist of certain oral anti-cancer drugs and certain oral immunosuppressive drugs. medicare part b pays for such drugs under a payment methodology based on the average sales price of the drugs. manufacturers, including us, are required to report average sales price information to cms on a quarterly basis. the manufacturer-submitted information is used by cms to calculate medicare payment rates. civil monetary penalties can be applied if we are found to have knowingly submitted any false pricing or other information to the government, if we are found to have made a misrepresentation in the reporting of our average sales price, or if we fail to submit the required data on a timely basis. such conduct also could be grounds for cms to terminate our medicaid drug rebate agreement, in which case federal payments may not be available under medicaid or medicare part b for our covered outpatient drugs. federal law requires that any company that participates in the medicaid drug rebate program also participate in the public health service's 340b drug pricing program (the "340b program") in order for federal funds to be available for the manufacturer's drugs under medicaid and medicare part b. the 340b program, which is administered by the health resources and services administration, or hrsa, requires participating manufacturers to agree to charge statutorily defined covered entities no more than the 340b "ceiling price" for the manufacturer's covered outpatient drugs. covered entities include hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of 24 table of contents financially needy patients, community health clinics, and other entities that receive certain types of grants under the public health service act. the ppaca expanded the list of covered entities to include certain free-standing cancer hospitals, critical access hospitals, rural referral centers, and sole community hospitals, but exempts "orphan drugs" from the ceiling price requirements for these covered entities. the 340b ceiling price is calculated using a statutory formula, which is based on the average manufacturer price and medicaid rebate amount for the covered outpatient drug as calculated under the medicaid drug rebate program. in general, products subject to medicaid price reporting and rebate liability are also subject to the 340b ceiling price calculation and discount requirement. hrsa issued a final regulation regarding the calculation of the 340b ceiling price and the imposition of civil monetary penalties on manufacturers that knowingly and intentionally overcharge covered entities, which became effective on january 1, 2019. it is currently unclear how hrsa will apply its enforcement authority under the new regulation. any charge by hrsa that we have violated the requirements of the regulation could result in civil monetary penalties. hrsa also implemented a new price reporting system during the first quarter of 2019, under which manufacturers are now required to report their 340b ceiling prices to hrsa on a quarterly basis. in addition, legislation may be introduced that, if passed, would further expand the 340b program to additional covered entities or would require participating manufacturers to agree to provide 340b discounted pricing on drugs used in an inpatient setting. in order to be eligible to have our products paid for with federal funds under the medicaid and medicare part b programs and purchased by certain federal agencies and grantees, we participate in the u.s. department of veterans affairs ("va") federal supply schedule ("fss") pricing program. fss participation is required for our products to be purchased by the va, department of defense ("dod"), coast guard, and public health service ("phs"). prices for innovator drugs purchased by the va, dod, coast guard, and phs are subject to a cap (known as the "federal ceiling price") equal to 76% of the annual non-federal average manufacturer price ("non-famp") minus, if applicable, an additional discount. the additional discount applies if non-famp increases more than inflation (measured by reference to the consumer price index - urban). we also participate in the tricare retail pharmacy program, under which we pay quarterly rebates to dod for prescriptions of our innovator drugs dispensed to tricare beneficiaries through tricare retail network pharmacies. the governing statute provides for civil monetary penalties for failure to provide information timely or for knowing submission of false information to the government. medicare part d provides coverage to enrolled medicare patients for self-administered drugs ( i.e. , drugs that are not administered by a physician). medicare part d is administered by private prescription drug plans approved by the u.s. government and, subject to detailed program rules and government oversight, each drug plan establishes its own medicare part d formulary for prescription drug coverage and pricing, which the drug plan may modify from time to time. the prescription drug plans negotiate pricing with manufacturers and pharmacies, and may condition formulary placement on the availability of manufacturer discounts. in addition, for 2020, manufacturers, including us, are required to provide to cms a 70% discount on brand name prescription drugs utilized by medicare part d beneficiaries when those beneficiaries are in the coverage gap phase of the part d benefit design. private payor healthcare and insurance providers, health maintenance organizations, and pharmacy benefit managers in the united states are adopting more aggressive utilization management techniques and are increasingly requiring significant discounts and rebates from manufacturers as a condition to including products on formulary with favorable coverage and copayment/coinsurance. as a consequence, these payors may not cover or adequately reimburse for use of our products or may do so at levels that disadvantage them relative to competitive products. outside the united states, within the eu, our products are paid for by a variety of payors, with governments being the primary source of payment. government health authorities in the eu determine or influence reimbursement of products, and set prices or otherwise regulate pricing. negotiating prices with governmental authorities can delay commercialization of our products. governments may use a variety of cost-containment measures to control the cost of products, including price cuts, mandatory rebates, value-based pricing, and reference pricing ( i.e. , referencing prices in other countries or prices of competitive products and using those reference prices to set a price). budgetary pressures in many eu countries are continuing to cause governments to consider or implement various cost-containment measures, such as price freezes, increased price cuts and rebates, and expanded generic substitution and patient cost-sharing. other regulatory requirements we are subject to health care "fraud and abuse" laws, such as the federal false claims act, the anti-kickback provisions of the federal social security act, and other state and federal laws and regulations. federal and state anti-kickback laws prohibit, among other things, payments or other remuneration to induce or reward someone to purchase, prescribe, endorse, or recommend a product that is reimbursed under federal or state healthcare programs. federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. see part i, item 1a. "risk factors - regulatory and litigation risks - if we market and sell approved products in a way that violates federal or state healthcare laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties ." we are subject to the foreign corrupt practices act, or fcpa, and similar anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws, regulations or rules of other countries in which we operate, including the u.k. bribery act. see part i, item 1a. "risk factors - regulatory and litigation 25 table of contents risks - risks from the improper conduct of employees, agents, contractors, or collaborators could adversely affect our reputation and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition ." in the united states, there are federal and state privacy laws that regulate specific categories of personal data. the information privacy laws address state and federal health information, consumer protection, and children's personal data. there are also data protection laws that govern data breach notification and information security. most health care providers, including research institutions from which we or our collaborators obtain patient health information, are subject to privacy and security regulations promulgated under the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, or hipaa, as amended by the health information technology for economic and clinical health act. although we are not directly subject to hipaa other than with respect to providing certain employee benefits, we could potentially be subject to criminal penalties if we, our affiliates, or our agents knowingly obtain or disclose individually identifiable health information maintained by a hipaa-covered entity in a manner that is not authorized or permitted by hipaa. to the extent we collect california resident personal data for marketing activities, we are also subject to the california consumer privacy act of 2018 (the "ccpa"). the ccpa became effective on january 1, 2020 and provides california residents with certain rights concerning the use of their personal data. the obligations to comply with the ccpa require us, among other things, to update our notices and develop new processes internally and with our partners. we may be subject to fines, penalties, or private actions in the event of non-compliance with the ccpa. outside the united states, our clinical trial programs and research collaborations implicate international data protection laws, including the general data protection regulation ("gdpr") in the eu. the gdpr became effective on may 25, 2018, increasing our responsibility and liability in relation to the processing of personal data of eu subjects. the gdpr, together with the national legislation of the eu member states governing the processing of personal data, impose strict obligations and restrictions on the ability to collect, analyze and transfer personal data, including health data and samples from clinical trials and adverse event reporting. in particular, these obligations and restrictions concern the consent of the individuals to whom the personal data relates, the information provided to the individuals, the transfer of personal data out of the eu, security breach notifications, security and confidentiality of the personal data and imposition of substantial potential fines for breaches of the data protection obligations. data protection authorities from the different eu member states may promulgate national privacy laws that impose additional requirements, which add to the complexity of processing personal data in the eu. guidance on implementation and compliance practices are often updated or otherwise revised. see part i, item 1a. "risk factors - regulatory and litigation risks - we face potential liability related to the personal information we collect from individuals, data brokers, or research institutions or obtain from clinical trials sponsored by us or our collaborators ." in addition to the foregoing, our present business is, and our future business may be, subject to regulation under the united states atomic energy act, the clean air act, the clean water act, the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act, the national environmental policy act, the toxic substances control act, the resource conservation and recovery act, national restrictions, and other current and potential future local, state, federal, and foreign regulations. business segments we manage our business as one segment which includes all activities related to the discovery, development, and commercialization of medicines for the treatment of serious diseases. for financial information related to our one segment, see part ii, item 6. "selected financial data" and our consolidated financial statements and related notes. employees as of december 31, 2019, we had approximately 8,100 full-time employees. we believe that we have been successful in attracting skilled and experienced personnel in a highly competitive environment; however, competition for these personnel is intense. our management considers its relations with our employees to be good. corporate information we were incorporated in the state of new york in 1988 and publicly listed in 1991. our principal executive offices are located at 777 old saw mill river road, tarrytown, new york 10591, and our telephone number at that address is (914) 847-7000. we make available free of charge on or through our internet website ( http://www.regeneron.com ) our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the securities and exchange commission ("sec"). investors and other interested parties should note that we use our media and investor relations website ( http://newsroom.regeneron.com ) and our social media channels to publish important information about regeneron, including information that may be deemed material to investors. we encourage investors and other interested parties to review the information we may publish through our media and investor relations website and the social media channels listed on our media and investor relations website, in addition to our sec filings, press releases, conference calls, and webcasts. 26 table of contents the information contained on our websites and social media channels is not included as a part of, or incorporated by reference into, this report. item 1a. risk factors we operate in an environment that involves a number of significant risks and uncertainties. we caution you to read the following risk factors, which have affected, and/or in the future could affect, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. the risks described below include forward-looking statements, and actual events and our actual results may differ materially from these forward-looking statements. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. furthermore, additional risks and uncertainties are described under other captions in this report and should also be considered by our investors. for purposes of this section, references to our products encompass products marketed by us and/or our collaborators under our collaboration agreements with them, unless otherwise stated or required by the context. risks related to commercialization of our marketed products, product candidates, and new indications for our marketed products we are substantially dependent on the success of eylea. eylea net sales represent a substantial portion of our revenues and this concentration of our net sales in a single product makes us substantially dependent on that product. for the years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018 , eylea net sales in the united states represented 59% and 61% of our total revenues, respectively. if we were to experience difficulty with the commercialization of eylea in the united states, if bayer were to experience any difficulty with the commercialization of eylea outside the united states, or if we and bayer are unable to maintain current marketing approvals of eylea, we may experience a reduction in revenue and may not be able to sustain profitability, and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be materially harmed. 27 table of contents if we or our collaborators are unable to continue to successfully commercialize our products, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition will be materially harmed. we expect that the degree of commercial success of our marketed products will continue to depend on many factors, including the following (as applicable): effectiveness of the commercial strategy in and outside the united states for the marketing of our products, including pricing strategy; sufficient coverage of, and reimbursement for, our marketed products by third-party payors, including medicare and medicaid in the united states and other government and private payors in the united states and foreign jurisdictions, as well as u.s. and foreign payor restrictions on eligible patient populations and the reimbursement process (including drug price control measures that may be introduced in the united states by various federal and state authorities); our ability and our collaborators' ability to maintain sales of our marketed products in the face of competitive products and to differentiate our marketed products from competitive products, including as applicable product candidates currently in clinical development; and, in the case of eylea, the existing and potential new competition for eylea (discussed further under " the commercial success of our products and product candidates is subject to significant competition - marketed products" below) and the willingness of retinal specialists and patients to start or continue treatment with eylea or to switch from another product to eylea; serious complications or side effects in connection with the use of our marketed products, as discussed under "risks related to maintaining approval of our marketed products and the development and obtaining approval of our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products - serious complications or side effects in connection with the use of our products and in clinical trials for our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products could cause our regulatory approvals to be revoked or limited or lead to delay or discontinuation of development of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, which could severely harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition " below; maintaining and successfully monitoring commercial manufacturing arrangements for our marketed products with third parties who perform fill/finish or other steps in the manufacture of such products to ensure that they meet our standards and those of regulatory authorities, including the fda, which extensively regulate and monitor pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities; our ability to meet the demand for commercial supplies of our marketed products; the outcome of the pending patent infringement proceedings relating to dupixent and praluent (described further in note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included in this report), as well as other risks relating to our marketed products associated with intellectual property of other parties and pending or future litigation relating thereto (as discussed under "risks related to intellectual property and market exclusivity" below); the outcome of the pending government investigations described in note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included in this report; the results of post-approval studies, whether conducted by us or by others and whether mandated by regulatory agencies or voluntary, and studies of other products that could implicate an entire class of products or are perceived to do so; and the effect of existing and new health care laws and regulations currently being considered or implemented in the united states, including price reporting and other disclosure requirements of such laws and regulations and the potential impact of such requirements on physician prescribing practices and payor coverage. more detailed information about the risks related to the commercialization of our marketed products is provided in the risk factors below. 28 table of contents we and our collaborators are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight with respect to the products we or our collaborators commercialize. if we or our collaborators fail to maintain regulatory compliance for any of such products, the applicable marketing approval may be withdrawn, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. we and our collaborators are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight with respect to the products we or they commercialize for the products' currently approved indications in the united states, eu, and other countries where such products are approved. if we or our collaborators fail to maintain regulatory compliance for such products' currently approved indications (including because the product does not meet the relevant endpoints of any required post-approval studies, or for any of the reasons discussed below under "risks related to maintaining approval of our marketed products and the development and obtaining approval of our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products - obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval for drug products is costly, time-consuming, and highly uncertain "), the applicable marketing approval may be withdrawn, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. failure to comply may also subject us to sanctions, product recalls, or withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications. see also "risks related to manufacturing and supply - our or our collaborators' failure to meet the stringent requirements of governmental regulation in the manufacture of drug products or product candidates could result in incurring substantial remedial costs, delays in the development or approval of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products and/or in their commercial launch if they obtain regulatory approval, and a reduction in sales " below. sales of our marketed products are dependent on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payors, and changes to such reimbursement may materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. sales of our marketed products in the united states are dependent, in large part, on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payors, including private payor healthcare and insurance programs, health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit management companies, and government programs such as medicare and medicaid. sales of our marketed products in other countries are dependent, in large part, on similar reimbursement mechanisms and programs in those countries. our future revenues and profitability will be adversely affected in a material manner if such third-party payors do not adequately defray or reimburse the cost of our marketed products to patients. if these entities do not provide coverage and reimbursement with respect to our marketed products or provide an insufficient level of coverage and reimbursement, such products may be too costly for many patients to afford them, and physicians may not prescribe them. many third-party payors cover only selected drugs, or may prefer selected drugs, making drugs that are not covered or preferred by such payors more expensive for patients. third-party payors may also require prior authorization for reimbursement, or require failure on another type of treatment before covering a particular drug, particularly with respect to higher-priced drugs. as our currently marketed products and product candidates are biologics, bringing them to market may cost more than bringing traditional, small-molecule drugs to market due to the complexity associated with the research, development, production, supply, and regulatory review of such products. given cost sensitivities in many health care systems, our currently marketed products and product candidates are likely to be subject to continued pricing pressures, which may have an adverse impact on our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. in addition, in order for private insurance and governmental payors (such as medicare and medicaid in the united states) to reimburse the cost of our marketed products, we must maintain, among other things, our fda registration and our national drug code, formulary approval by pharmacy benefits managers, and recognition by insurance companies and the cms. there is no certainty that we will be able to obtain or maintain the applicable requirements for reimbursement (including relevant formulary coverage, as discussed further below) of our current and future marketed products, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. government and other third-party payors (including pharmacy benefit management companies) are challenging the prices charged for healthcare products and increasingly limiting, and attempting to limit, both coverage and level of reimbursement for prescription drugs, such as by requiring outcomes-based or other pay-for-performance pricing arrangements. they are also imposing restrictions on eligible patient populations and the reimbursement process, including by means of required prior authorizations and utilization management criteria, such as step therapy ( i.e. , requiring the use of less costly medications before more costly medications are approved for coverage). some states are also considering legislation that would control the prices and reimbursement of prescription drugs, and state medicaid programs are increasingly requesting manufacturers to pay supplemental rebates and requiring prior authorization by the state program for use of any prescription drug for which supplemental rebates are not being paid. it is likely that federal and state legislatures and health agencies will continue to focus on additional health care reform measures in the future that will impose additional constraints on prices and reimbursements for our marketed products. further, there have been several recent u.s. congressional inquiries and proposed federal and state legislation and policies designed to, among other things, bring more transparency to drug pricing, review the relationship between pricing and manufacturer patient programs, reduce the out-of-pocket cost of prescription drugs, and reform government program reimbursement methodologies for drugs. at the federal level, the current administration's prior budget proposals (including the proposal for fiscal year 2020) contained 29 table of contents drug price control measures that may be subsequently rolled into the budget proposal for fiscal year 2021 and could be enacted during the 2021 budget process or in other future legislation, including, for example, measures to permit medicare part d plans to negotiate the price of certain drugs under medicare part b (such as eylea); to allow some states to negotiate drug prices under medicaid; and to eliminate cost sharing for generic drugs for low-income patients. additionally, on may 11, 2018, president trump laid out his administration's "blueprint to lower drug prices and reduce out-of-pocket costs" to reduce the cost of prescription drugs while preserving innovation and cures. the department of health and human services has been soliciting feedback on some of these measures and may implement others impacting our business under its existing authority. cms has also recently sought public comment on how best to leverage its authority provided under the competitive acquisition program and introduce competition into medicare part b by allowing cms to bring on vendors to negotiate payment amounts for medicare part b drugs. in addition, since january 1, 2019, cms has allowed medicare advantage ("ma") plans to use step therapy for part b drugs (such as eylea). on october 25, 2018, president trump announced that cms was evaluating a program that proposes to set the medicare payment amount for part b single-source drugs and biologics to more closely align with international drug prices (also referred to as reference or international price index ("ipi") drug pricing) and pay physicians and hospitals participating in such program a set drug add-on payment for administered drugs. cms also issued an advance notice of proposed rulemaking that requested public comment on the proposed program, which is contemplated to initially cover fifty percent of medicare part b spending on separately payable part b drugs (such as eylea), with the ipi-based price for each such drug to be phased in over a period of five years; notice of proposed rulemaking on this program is pending review by the office of management and budget. in addition, in july 2019, president trump indicated that his administration was considering an executive order to establish a "most favored nation" pricing plan. while the scope and details of this contemplated executive action (including whether and how its mechanism may differ from that of the proposed ipi drug pricing program discussed above) are not clear, this seems to signal that the u.s. administration will continue to seek new measures to constrain drug costs and medicare payments for drugs. similarly, various members of the current u.s. congress and potential 2020 presidential candidates have indicated that lowering drug prices continues to be a legislative and political priority, and some have introduced proposals aimed at drug pricing. at the state level, legislatures are becoming increasingly aggressive in passing legislation and implementing regulations designed to control pharmaceutical and biological product pricing, including price or patient reimbursement constraints, discounts, restrictions on certain product access, and price and marketing cost disclosure and transparency measures. in some cases, these measures are designed to encourage importation from other countries and bulk purchasing. a reduction in the availability or extent of reimbursement from u.s. government programs (including based on the proposals and initiatives described above) could have a material adverse effect on the sales of eylea or our other marketed products. economic pressure on state budgets may also have a similar impact. in addition, pharmacy benefit management companies often develop formularies to reduce their cost for medications. the breadth of the products covered by formularies varies considerably from one pharmacy benefit management company to another. failure to be included in such formularies or to achieve favorable formulary status may negatively impact the utilization and market share of our marketed products. if our marketed products are not included within an adequate number of formularies, adequate reimbursement levels are not provided, the eligible insured patient population for our products is limited, or a key payor refuses to provide reimbursement for our products in a particular jurisdiction altogether, this could have a material adverse effect on our and our collaborators' ability to commercialize the applicable product. in certain foreign countries, pricing, coverage, and level of reimbursement of prescription drugs are subject to governmental control, and we and our collaborators may be unable to obtain coverage, pricing, and/or reimbursement on terms that are favorable to us or necessary for us or our collaborators to successfully commercialize our marketed products in those countries. in some foreign countries, the proposed pricing for a drug must be approved before it may be lawfully marketed. the requirements governing drug pricing and reimbursement vary widely from country to country, and may take into account the clinical effectiveness, cost, and service impact of existing, new, and emerging drugs and treatments. for example, the eu provides options for its member states to restrict the range of medicinal products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices of medicinal products for human use. a member state may approve a specific price for the medicinal product or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the medicinal product on the market. our results of operations may suffer if we or our collaborators are unable to market our products in foreign countries or if coverage and reimbursement for our marketed products in foreign countries is limited or delayed. the commercial success of our products and product candidates is subject to significant competition. marketed products there is substantial competition in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries from biotechnology, pharmaceutical, and chemical companies. many of our competitors have substantially greater research, preclinical and clinical product development and manufacturing capabilities, as well as financial, marketing, and human resources, than we do. our smaller competitors may also enhance their competitive position if they acquire or discover patentable inventions, form collaborative arrangements, or 30 table of contents merge with larger pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies. there is significant actual and potential future competition for each of our marketed products. eylea faces significant competition in the marketplace. for example, eylea competes in one or more of its approved indications with other vegf inhibitors, including novartis and genentech/roche's lucentis and novartis' beovu. ophthalmologists are also using off-label, third-party repackaged versions of genentech/roche's approved vegf antagonist, bevacizumab, for the treatment of certain of eylea's indications, and we are aware of another company developing an ophthalmic formulation of such product. in dme and rvo, eylea also competes with intravitreal implants of corticosteroids. we are also aware of a number of companies working on the development of product candidates and extended delivery devices for the potential treatment of one or more of eylea's indications, including those that act by blocking vegf and vegf receptors (including therapies designed to extend the treatment interval) and/or other targets (such as ang2), as well as sirnas that modulate gene expression. in addition, we are aware of several companies developing biosimilar versions of eylea and other approved anti-vegf treatments. other potentially competitive products in development include products for use in combination with eylea and/or other anti-vegf treatments, small-molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitors, gene therapies, and other eye-drop formulations, devices, and oral therapies. there also is a risk that third parties repackage zaltrap for off-label use and sale for the treatment of diseases of the eye, even though zaltrap has not been manufactured and formulated for use in intravitreal injections. we are aware of claims by third parties, including those based on published clinical data, alleging that zaltrap may be safely administered to the eye. the market for dupixent's current and potential future indications is also competitive. in atopic dermatitis, there are several topical ointments or agents either approved or in development. in addition, a number of companies are developing antibodies against il-13, il-13ra1, ox40, il-31r, and/or il-1alpha. several companies are also studying jak inhibitors for atopic dermatitis. in asthma, competitors to dupixent include antibodies against the il-5 ligand or the il-5 receptor or immunoglobulin e; and some of these antibodies, if approved in this indication, may also compete with dupixent in crswnp. dupixent also faces competition from orally administered small molecule agents and inhaled products in asthma and potential future indications. there are several other potentially competitive products in development that may compete with dupixent in both the atopic dermatitis and asthma indications, as well as potential future indications, including antibodies against thymic stromal lymphopoietin (tslp), the il-33 ligand, or the il-33 receptor (st2). libtayo also faces significant competition. there are several competitors that are marketing and/or developing antibodies against pd-1 and/or pdl-1, including merck's keytruda, bristol-myers squibb's opdivo, and roche's tecentriq. there is also significant actual and potential future competition for other products marketed by us and/or our collaborators under our collaboration agreements with them. for example, there are several companies that are marketing and/or developing antibodies against pcsk9 and il-6 and/or il-6r, which currently (or, for antibodies in development, may in the future if approved) compete with praluent and kevzara, respectively. product candidates our other late-stage and earlier-stage clinical candidates in development are all fully human antibodies, which were generated using our velocimmune technology. our antibody generation technologies and other late-stage and earlier-stage clinical candidates face competition from many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies using various technologies. we are aware of other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies actively engaged in the research and development of antibody-based products against targets that are also the targets of our early- and late-stage product candidates. we are also aware of other companies developing or marketing small molecules that may compete with our antibody-based product candidates in various indications, if such product candidates obtain regulatory approval in those indications. if any of these or other competitors announces a successful clinical study involving a product that may be competitive with one of our product candidates or the grant of marketing approval by a regulatory agency for a competitive product, such developments may have an adverse effect on our business or future prospects. in addition, the first product to reach the market in a therapeutic area is often at a significant competitive advantage relative to later entrants to the market. accordingly, the relative speed with which we, or our collaborators, can develop our product candidates, complete the clinical trials and approval processes, and, if such product candidates are approved for marketing and sale, supply commercial quantities to the market is expected to continue to be an important competitive factor. due to the uncertainties associated with developing biopharmaceutical products, we may not be the first to obtain marketing approval for a product against any particular target, which may have a material adverse effect on our business or future prospects. we rely on our collaborations with bayer and sanofi for commercializing some of our marketed products. while we have established our own sales and marketing organization for eylea in the united states for its currently approved indications, we have no sales, marketing, commercial, or distribution capabilities for eylea outside the united states. under the terms of our license and collaboration agreement with bayer (which is terminable by bayer at any time upon six or twelve months' advance notice, depending on the circumstances giving rise to termination), we rely on bayer (and, in japan, santen pursuant to 31 table of contents a co-promotion and distribution agreement with bayer's japanese affiliate, as in effect from time to time) for sales, marketing, and distribution of eylea in countries outside the united states. in addition, under the terms of our antibody collaboration (which, as previously announced, is expected to be revised to give effect to a new arrangement for praluent and kevzara, as described further in part i, item 1. "business - collaboration agreements - collaborations with sanofi " (the "antibody collaboration restructuring")) and our io collaboration, we and sanofi co-commercialize dupixent and libtayo in the united states. as a result, we rely in part on sanofi's sales and marketing organization in the united states for these products. if we and sanofi fail to coordinate our united states sales and marketing efforts effectively, sales of any of such products may be materially affected. sanofi also maintains other important responsibilities relating to dupixent in the united states. for example, sanofi records product sales for dupixent in the united states, serves as the dupixent lead regulatory party ( e.g. , is responsible for regulatory filings and negotiations relating to it) in the united states, and leads negotiations with payors relating to this product. we also rely on sanofi for sales, marketing, and distribution of dupixent and libtayo in countries outside the united states. in addition, after the antibody collaboration restructuring has been finalized, sanofi is expected to obtain sole global rights to kevzara and sole rights to praluent outside the united states and will be solely responsible for commercialization of these products (as well as development and commercialization expenses) in the relevant jurisdictions; our rights will be limited to receiving a royalty on corresponding net product sales realized by sanofi. if we and our collaborators are unsuccessful in continuing to commercialize the marketed products subject to such collaborations, or if bayer or sanofi terminate their respective collaborations with us, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be materially impaired. we have limited commercial capabilities outside the united states and would have to develop or outsource these capabilities. therefore, termination of the bayer collaboration agreement, our antibody collaboration, or our io collaboration would create substantial new and additional risks to the successful commercialization of the applicable products, particularly outside the united states. for additional information regarding our collaborations with bayer and sanofi, see "risks related to our reliance on third parties - if our collaboration with bayer for eylea is terminated, or bayer materially breaches its obligations thereunder, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition, and our ability to continue to develop eylea and commercialize eylea outside the united states in the time expected, or at all, would be materially harmed " below and "risks related to our reliance on third parties - if our antibody collaboration or our io collaboration with sanofi is terminated, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition, and our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize certain of our products and product candidates in the time expected, or at all, would be materially harmed " below. sales of our marketed products recorded by us and our collaborators could be reduced by imports from countries where such products may be available at lower prices. our sales of products we commercialize in the united states and our collaborators' sales of products they commercialize under our collaboration agreements with them in the united states and other countries (which impact our share of any profits or losses from the commercialization of these products under the relevant collaboration agreements and, therefore, our results of operations) may be reduced if the applicable product is imported into those countries from lower priced markets, whether legally or illegally (a practice known as parallel trading or reimportation). parallel traders (who may repackage or otherwise alter the original product or sell it through alternative channels such as mail order or the internet) take advantage of the price differentials between markets arising from factors including sales costs, market conditions (such as intermediate trading stages), tax rates, or national regulation of prices. under our arrangement with bayer, pricing and reimbursement for eylea outside the united states is the responsibility of bayer. similarly, under our antibody collaboration and io collaboration with sanofi, pricing and reimbursement for the products commercialized thereunder outside the united states are the responsibility of sanofi. prices for our marketed products in jurisdictions outside the united states are based on local market economics and competition and are likely to differ from country to country. in the united states, prices for pharmaceuticals are generally higher than in the bordering nations of canada and mexico and sales of our marketed products in the united states may be reduced if the applicable product marketed in those bordering nations is imported into the united states. in addition, there are proposals to legalize the import of pharmaceuticals from outside the united states into the united states. if such proposals were implemented, our future revenues derived from sales of our marketed products could be reduced. parallel-trading practices also are of particular relevance to the eu, where they have been encouraged by the current regulatory framework. these types of imports may exert pressure on the pricing of our marketed products in a particular market or reduce sales recorded by us or our collaborators, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations. 32 table of contents we may be unsuccessful in continuing the commercialization of our marketed products or in commercializing our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if approved, which would materially and adversely affect our business, profitability, and future prospects. even if clinical trials demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of any of our product candidates for a specific disease and the necessary regulatory approvals are obtained, the commercial success of any of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products will depend upon, among other things, their acceptance by patients, the medical community, and third-party payors and on our and our collaborators' ability to successfully manufacture, market, and distribute those products in substantial commercial quantities or to establish and manage the required infrastructure to do so, including large-scale information technology systems and a large-scale distribution network. establishing and maintaining sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities are expensive and time-consuming. even if we obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates or new indications, if they are not successfully commercialized, we will not be able to recover the significant investment we have made in developing such products and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be severely harmed. the commercial success of our products may also be adversely affected by guidelines or recommendations to healthcare providers, administrators, payors, and patient communities that result in decreased use of our products. such guidelines or recommendations may be published not only by governmental agencies, but also professional societies, practice management groups, private foundations, and other interested parties. our product candidates are delivered either by intravenous infusion or by intravitreal or subcutaneous injections, which are generally less well received by patients than tablet or capsule delivery and this could adversely affect the commercial success of those products if they receive marketing approval. we are dependent upon a small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of or significant reduction in sales to these customers would adversely affect our results of operations. we sell eylea, libtayo, and arcalyst in the united states to several distributors and specialty pharmacies. under this distribution model, the distributors and specialty pharmacies generally take physical delivery of product and generally sell the product directly to healthcare providers. for the year ended december 31, 2019 , our gross product sales of such products to two customers accounted on a combined basis for 90% of our total gross product revenue. we expect this significant customer concentration to continue for the foreseeable future. our ability to generate and grow sales of these products will depend, in part, on the extent to which our distributors and specialty pharmacies are able to provide adequate distribution of these products to healthcare providers. although we believe we can find additional distributors, if necessary, our revenue during any period of disruption could suffer and we might incur additional costs. in addition, these customers are responsible for a significant portion of our net trade accounts receivable balances. the loss of any large customer, a significant reduction in sales we make to them, any cancellation of orders they have made with us, or any failure to pay for the products we have shipped to them could adversely affect our results of operations. if we are unable to establish commercial capabilities outside the united states for products we intend to commercialize or co-commercialize outside the united states, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be adversely affected. we have limited commercial capabilities outside the united states and do not currently have an organization for the sales, marketing, and distribution of marketed products outside the united states. we will need to establish commercial capabilities outside the united states as a result of any exercise of our option to co-commercialize a product outside the united states. for example, we have recently exercised our option under the antibody collaboration to co-commercialize dupixent in certain jurisdictions outside the united states. in addition, there may be other circumstances in which we need to establish commercial capabilities outside the united states, including because we decide to commercialize a particular product independently; we are unable to find an appropriate collaborator; or our existing collaborator decides not to opt in, decides to opt out, or breaches its obligations to us with respect to a particular product. in order to commercialize or co-commercialize any products outside the united states, we must build our sales, marketing, distribution, managerial, and other non-technical capabilities in the relevant markets or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services, which would likely be expensive and time consuming and could delay product launch or the co-commercialization of a product in one or more markets outside the united states. we cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully develop commercial capabilities outside the united states within an acceptable time frame or at all. these and other difficulties relating to commercializing our products outside the united states may severely harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. 33 table of contents risks related to maintaining approval of our marketed products and the development and obtaining approval of our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products if we or our collaborators do not maintain regulatory approval for our marketed products, and obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, we will not be able to market or sell them, which would materially and negatively impact our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. we cannot sell or market products without regulatory approval. if we or our collaborators do not maintain regulatory approval for our marketed products, and obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates or new indications of our marketed products (or are materially delayed in doing so), the value of our company and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed. obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval for drug products is costly, time-consuming, and highly uncertain. in the united states, we (which, for purposes of this risk factor, includes our collaborators, unless otherwise stated or required by the context) must obtain and maintain approval from the fda for each drug we intend to sell. obtaining fda approval is typically a lengthy and expensive process, and approval is highly uncertain. we cannot predict with certainty if or when we might submit for regulatory approval for any of our product candidates currently under development. any approvals we may obtain may not cover all of the clinical indications for which we are seeking approval. also, an approval might contain significant limitations in the form of narrow indications, warnings, precautions, or contra-indications with respect to conditions of use. the fda has substantial discretion in the approval process (including with respect to setting specific conditions for submission) and may either refuse to accept an application for substantive review or may form the opinion after review of an application that the application is insufficient to allow approval of a product candidate. if the fda does not accept our application for review or approve our application, it may require that we conduct additional clinical, preclinical, or manufacturing validation studies and submit the data before it will reconsider our application. depending on the extent of these or any other studies that might be required, approval of any applications that we submit may be delayed significantly, or we may be required to expend more resources. it is also possible that any such additional studies, if performed and completed, may not be considered sufficient by the fda to make our applications approvable. if any of these outcomes occur, we may be forced to delay or abandon our applications for approval. in certain instances (such as when we use a biomarker-based test to identify and enroll specific patients in a clinical trial), regulatory approval of a companion diagnostic to our therapeutic product candidate may be required as a condition to regulatory approval of the therapeutic product candidate. we may need to rely on third parties to provide companion diagnostics for use with our product candidates. such third parties may be unable or unwilling on terms acceptable to us to provide such companion diagnostics or to obtain timely regulatory approval of such companion diagnostics, which could negatively impact regulatory approval of our product candidates or may result in increased development costs or delays. the fda may also require us to conduct additional clinical trials after granting approval of a product. its ability to do so has been enhanced by the food and drug administration amendments act of 2007, pursuant to which the fda has the explicit authority to require postmarketing studies (also referred to as post-approval or phase 4 studies), labeling changes based on new safety information, and compliance with fda-approved risk evaluation and mitigation strategies. post-approval studies, whether conducted by us or by others and whether mandated by regulatory agencies or voluntary, and other data about our marketed products (or data about products similar to our marketed products that implicate an entire class of products or are perceived to do so) may result in changes in product labeling, restrictions on use, product withdrawal or recall, loss of approval, or lower sales of our products. according to the fda policies under the prescription drug user fee act, the fda system of review times for new drugs includes standard review and priority review. standard review can be accomplished in a 10-month time frame from the time the application is filed by the fda (filing date), which typically occurs approximately 60 days following submission of the application by the applicant. the fda has stated the goal to act on 90% of standard new molecular entity ("nme") new drug application ("nda") and original bla submissions within 10 months of the filing date. a priority review designation is given to drugs that treat a serious condition and offer major advances in treatment, or provide a treatment where no adequate therapy exists, and may also be afforded to a human drug application based on a priority review voucher. the fda has stated the goal to act on 90% of priority nme nda and original bla submissions within six months of the filing date. however, the fda's review goals are subject to change and the duration of the fda's review depends on a number of factors, including the number and types of other applications that are submitted to the fda around the same time period or are pending. even if any of our applications receives a priority review designation, we may not ultimately be able to obtain approval of our application within a time frame consistent with the fda's stated review goals or at all, and such designation may not actually lead to a faster development or regulatory review or approval process. 34 table of contents the fda enforces good clinical practices ("gcps") and other regulations through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, clinical research organizations ("cros"), principal investigators, and trial sites. if we or any of the third parties conducting our clinical studies are determined to have failed to fully comply with gcps, the study protocol or applicable regulations, the clinical data generated in those studies may be deemed unreliable. this could result in non-approval of our product candidates by the fda, or we or the fda may decide to conduct additional inspections or require additional clinical studies, which would delay our development programs, require us to incur additional costs, and could substantially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. before approving a new drug or biologic product, the fda requires that the facilities at which the product will be manufactured or advanced through the supply chain be in compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cgmp, requirements and regulations governing the manufacture, shipment, and storage of the product. these cgmp requirements and regulations are not prescriptive instructions on how to manufacture products, but rather a series of principles that must be observed during manufacturing; as a result, their implementation may not be clearly delineated and may present a challenging task. manufacturing product candidates in compliance with these regulatory requirements is complex, time-consuming, and expensive. to be successful, our products must be manufactured in compliance with regulatory requirements, and at competitive costs. if we or any of our third-party manufacturers, product packagers, labelers, or other parties performing steps in the supply chain are unable to maintain regulatory compliance, the fda can impose regulatory sanctions, including, among other things, refusal to approve a pending application for a new drug or biologic product, or revocation of a pre-existing approval. for additional information, see "risks related to manufacturing and supply - our or our collaborators' failure to meet the stringent requirements of governmental regulation in the manufacture of drug products or product candidates could result in incurring substantial remedial costs, delays in the development or approval of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products and/or in their commercial launch if they obtain regulatory approval, and a reduction in sales. " our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed as a result of noncompliance with the requirements and regulations described in this paragraph. in addition to the fda and other regulatory agency regulations in the united states, we are subject to a variety of foreign regulatory requirements governing human clinical trials, manufacturing, marketing and approval of drugs, and commercial sale and distribution of drugs in foreign countries. the foreign regulatory approval process is similarly a lengthy and expensive process, the result of which is highly uncertain, and foreign regulatory requirements include all of the risks associated with fda approval as well as country specific regulations. we and our collaborators must maintain regulatory compliance for the products we or they commercialize in foreign jurisdictions. from time to time, we may hold a product's marketing approval in a jurisdiction outside the united states where we may have less experience and where our regulatory capabilities may be more limited. in addition, actions by a regulatory agency in a country or region with respect to a product candidate may have an impact on the approval process for that product candidate in another country or region. foreign regulatory authorities often also have the authority to require post-approval studies, which involve various risks similar to those described above, and may ask for additional data in order to begin a clinical study. whether or not we obtain fda approval for a product in the united states, we must obtain approval of the product by the comparable regulatory authorities in foreign countries before we can market that product or any other product in those countries. preclinical and clinical studies required for our product candidates and new indications of our marketed products are expensive and time-consuming, and their outcome is highly uncertain. if any such studies are delayed or yield unfavorable results, regulatory approval for our product candidates or new indications of our marketed products may be delayed or become unobtainable. as described above, we must conduct extensive testing of our product candidates and new indications of our marketed products before we can obtain regulatory approval to market and sell them. we need to conduct both preclinical animal testing and human clinical trials. conducting such studies is a lengthy, time-consuming, and expensive process. these tests and trials may not achieve favorable results for many reasons, including, among others, failure of the product candidate to demonstrate safety or efficacy, the development of serious or life-threatening adverse events (or side effects) caused by or connected with exposure to the product candidate (or prior or concurrent exposure to other products or product candidates), difficulty in enrolling and maintaining subjects in a clinical trial, lack of sufficient supplies of the product candidate or comparator drug, and the failure of clinical investigators, trial monitors, contractors, consultants, or trial subjects to comply with the trial plan, protocol, or applicable regulations related to the fda's glps or gcps. a clinical trial may fail because it did not include and retain a sufficient number of patients to detect the endpoint being measured or reach statistical significance. a clinical trial may also fail because the dose(s) of the investigational drug included in the trial were either too low or too high to determine the optimal effect of the investigational drug in the disease setting. we will need to reevaluate any drug candidate that does not test favorably and either conduct new studies, which are expensive and time consuming, or abandon that drug development program. if preclinical testing yields unfavorable results, product candidates may not advance to clinical trials. the failure of clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of our clinical candidates 35 table of contents for the desired indication(s) would preclude the successful development of those candidates for such indication(s), in which event our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed. furthermore, some of our products and product candidates (such as libtayo and dupixent) are studied in combination with agents and treatments developed by us or our collaborators. there may be additional risks and unforeseen safety issues resulting from such combined administration, any of which may materially adversely impact clinical development of these product candidates and our ability to obtain regulatory approval. successful development of our current and future product candidates is uncertain. only a small minority of all research and development programs ultimately result in commercially successful drugs. clinical trials may not demonstrate statistically sufficient effectiveness and safety to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for these product candidates in these indications. many companies in the biopharmaceutical industry, including our company, have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, even after promising results have been obtained in earlier trials. in a number of instances, we have terminated the development of product candidates due to a lack of or only modest effectiveness, and clinical trials evaluating our product candidates failed to meet the relevant endpoints. for example, in august 2017, we reported that the phase 3 study evaluating suptavumab, an antibody to rsv, did not meet its primary endpoint of preventing medically-attended rsv infections in infants; as a result, we have discontinued further clinical development of this antibody. moreover, even if we obtain positive results from preclinical testing or clinical trials, we may not achieve the same success in future trials, or the fda and analogous foreign regulatory authorities may deem the results insufficient for an approval. many of our clinical trials are conducted under the oversight of independent data monitoring committees ("dmcs"). these independent oversight bodies are made up of external experts who review the progress of ongoing clinical trials, including available safety and efficacy data, and make recommendations concerning a trial's continuation, modification, or termination based on interim, unblinded data. any of our ongoing clinical trials may be discontinued or amended in response to recommendations made by responsible dmcs based on their review of such interim trial results. for example, in april 2018, the dmc monitoring the ongoing safety and efficacy of our phase 3 clinical trials of fasinumab recommended that the higher dose-regimens be discontinued based on the risk-benefit assessment and that the program may continue with lower dose-regimens of fasinumab. as a result, the osteoarthritis trials were modified accordingly and we discontinued dosing patients in the clinical study of fasinumab in chronic low back pain in patients with concomitant osteoarthritis of the knee and hip since this study was using only higher doses. the recommended termination or material modification of any of our ongoing late-stage clinical trials by a dmc could negatively impact the future development of our product candidate(s), and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed. we are studying our antibody-based product candidates in a wide variety of indications in clinical trials. many of these trials are exploratory studies designed to evaluate the safety profile of these compounds and to identify what diseases and uses, if any, are best suited for these product candidates. these product candidates may not demonstrate the requisite efficacy and/or safety profile to support continued development for some or all of the indications that are being, or are planned to be, studied, which would diminish our clinical "pipeline" and could negatively affect our future prospects and the value of our company. serious complications or side effects in connection with the use of our products and in clinical trials for our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products could cause our regulatory approvals to be revoked or limited or lead to delay or discontinuation of development of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, which could severely harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. during the conduct of clinical trials, patients report changes in their health, including illnesses, injuries, and discomforts, to their study doctor. often, it is not possible to determine whether or not the drug candidate being studied caused these conditions. various illnesses, injuries, and discomforts have been reported from time-to-time during clinical trials of our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products. it is possible that as we test our drug candidates or new indications in larger, longer, and more extensive clinical programs, or as use of these drugs becomes more widespread if they receive regulatory approval, illnesses, injuries, and discomforts that were observed in earlier trials, as well as conditions that did not occur or went undetected in previous trials, will be reported by patients. many times, side effects are only detectable after investigational drugs are tested in large-scale, phase 3 clinical trials or, in some cases, after they are made available to patients after approval. if additional clinical experience indicates that any of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products has many side effects or causes serious or life-threatening side effects, the development of the product candidate may be delayed or fail, or, if the product candidate has received regulatory approval, such approval may be revoked, which would severely harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. with respect to eylea, there are many potential safety concerns associated with significant blockade of vegf that may limit our ability to further successfully commercialize eylea. these serious and potentially life-threatening risks, based on clinical and preclinical experience of vegf inhibitors, include bleeding, intestinal perforation, hypertension, proteinuria, congestive heart 36 table of contents failure, heart attack, and stroke. other vegf blockers have reported side effects that became evident only after large-scale trials or after marketing approval when large numbers of patients were treated. there are risks inherent in the intravitreal administration of drugs like aflibercept (such as intraocular inflammation ("ioi"), sterile and culture positive endophthalmitis, corneal decomposition, retinal detachment, and retinal tear), which can cause injury to the eye and other complications. the side effects previously reported for eylea include conjunctival hemorrhage, macular degeneration, eye pain, retinal hemorrhage, and vitreous floaters. in addition, commercialization of eylea or our other products may be impacted by actions of third parties on which we rely, such as manufacturers of syringes or other devices used in the administration of our products. for example, in february 2018, we issued a letter to healthcare professionals providing updated guidance relating to reports of ioi following eylea injections. in this letter, we noted that while our review did not identify any association of ioi rates with the eylea drug itself, an association was seen with certain batches of the syringe that were included in specific lots of final packaged eylea kits. these and other complications or issues or side effects could harm further development and/or commercialization of eylea. dupixent and libtayo are being studied in additional indications, as shown in the table under part i, item 1. "business - programs in clinical development." there is no guarantee that marketing approval of dupixent or libtayo (as applicable) in any of these indications will be successfully obtained. the side effects previously reported for dupixent include hypersensitivity reactions, conjunctivitis and keratitis, injection-site reactions, eye and eyelid inflammation, cold sores, oropharyngeal pain, and eosinophilia; and the side effects previously reported for libtayo include certain immune-mediated adverse reactions, such as pneumonitis, colitis, hepatitis, endocrinopathies, nephritis, and dermatologic reactions, as well as infusion-related reactions, cellulitis, sepsis, pneumonia, urinary tract infection, fatigue, rash, and diarrhea. these and other complications or side effects could harm further development and/or commercialization of dupixent and libtayo (as applicable). there also are risks inherent in subcutaneous injections (which are used for administering most of our antibody-based products and product candidates), such as injection-site reactions (including redness, itching, swelling, pain, and tenderness) and other side effects. these and other complications or side effects could harm further development and/or commercialization of our antibody-based products and product candidates utilizing this method of administration. our product candidates in development are recombinant proteins that could cause an immune response, resulting in the creation of harmful or neutralizing antibodies against the therapeutic protein. in addition to the safety, efficacy, manufacturing, and regulatory hurdles faced by our product candidates, the administration of recombinant proteins frequently causes an immune response, resulting in the creation of antibodies against the therapeutic protein. the antibodies can have no effect or can totally neutralize the effectiveness of the protein, or require that higher doses be used to obtain a therapeutic effect. in some cases, the antibody can cross-react with the patient's own proteins, resulting in an "auto-immune" type disease. whether antibodies will be created can often not be predicted from preclinical or clinical experiments, and their detection or appearance is often delayed, so neutralizing antibodies may be detected at a later date, in some cases even after pivotal clinical trials have been completed. we may be unable to formulate or manufacture our product candidates in a way that is suitable for clinical or commercial use, which would delay or prevent continued development of such candidates and/or receipt of regulatory approval or commercial sale, which could materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. if we are unable to continue to develop suitable product formulations or manufacturing processes to support large-scale clinical testing of our product candidates, including our antibody-based product candidates, we may be unable to supply necessary materials for our clinical trials, which would delay or prevent the development of our product candidates. similarly, if we are unable, directly or through our collaborators or third parties, to supply sufficient quantities of our products or develop formulations of our product candidates suitable for commercial use, we will be unable to obtain regulatory approval for those product candidates. 37 table of contents many of our products are intended to be used and, if approved, our product candidates may be used in combination with drug-delivery devices, which may result in additional regulatory, commercialization, and other risks. many of our products are used and some of our products and product candidates may be used, if approved, in combination with a drug-delivery device, including a pre-filled syringe, patch pump, auto-injector, or other delivery system. for example, the fda recently approved the 2mg eylea pre-filled syringe, which has launched commercially. the success of our products and product candidates may depend to a significant extent on the performance of such devices, some of which may be novel or comprised of complex components. given the increased complexity of the review process when approval of the product and device is sought under a single marketing application and the additional risks resulting from a product candidate's designation as a combination product discussed below, our product candidates used with such drug-delivery devices may be substantially delayed in receiving regulatory approval or may not be approved at all. the fda review process and criteria for such applications are not well established, which could also lead to delays in the approval process. in addition, some of these drug-delivery devices may be provided by single-source, third-party providers or our collaborators. in any such case, we may be dependent on the sustained cooperation of those third-party providers or collaborators to supply and manufacture the devices; to conduct the studies and prepare related documentation required for approval or clearance by the applicable regulatory agencies; and to continue to meet the applicable regulatory and other requirements to maintain approval or clearance once it has been received. failure to successfully develop or supply the devices, delays in or failure of the studies conducted by us, our collaborators, or third-party providers, or failure of our company, our collaborators, or the third-party providers to obtain or maintain regulatory approval or clearance of the devices could result in increased development costs, delays in or failure to obtain regulatory approval, and associated delays in a product or product candidate reaching the market. loss of regulatory approval or clearance of a device that is used with our product may also result in the removal of our product from the market. further, failure to successfully develop or supply and manufacture these devices, or to gain or maintain their approval, could adversely affect sales of the related products. in the united states, each component of a combination product is subject to the requirements established by the fda for that type of component, whether a drug, biologic, or device. the determination whether a product is a combination product or two separately regulated products is made by the fda on a case-by-case basis. although a single marketing application is generally sufficient for the approval, clearance, or licensure of a combination product, the fda may determine that separate marketing applications are necessary. in addition, submitting separate marketing applications may be necessary to receive some benefit that accrues only from approval under a particular type of application. this could significantly increase the resources and time required to bring a particular combination product to market. risks related to intellectual property and market exclusivity if we cannot protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets, or our patents or other means of defending our intellectual property are insufficient to protect our proprietary rights, our business and competitive position will be harmed. our business requires using sensitive and proprietary technology and other information that we protect as trade secrets. we seek to prevent improper disclosure of these trade secrets through confidentiality agreements. if our trade secrets are improperly disclosed, by our current or former employees, our collaborators, or otherwise, it could help our competitors and adversely affect our business. we will be able to protect our proprietary rights only to the extent that our proprietary technologies and other information are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. the patent position of biotechnology companies, including our company, involves complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, enforceability cannot be predicted with certainty. our patents may be challenged, invalidated, held to be unenforceable, or circumvented. patent applications filed outside the united states may be challenged by other parties, for example, by filing third-party observations that argue against patentability or an opposition. such opposition proceedings are increasingly common in the eu and are costly to defend. for example, our european patent no. 2,264,163 is the subject of opposition proceedings in the european patent office (the "epo") (currently pending before its boards of appeal), as described in note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. we have pending patent applications in the united states patent and trademark office (the "uspto"), the epo, and the patent offices of other foreign jurisdictions, and it is likely that we will need to defend patents from challenges by others from time to time in the future. certain of our u.s. patents may also be challenged by parties who file a request for post-grant review or inter partes review under the america invents act of 2011 or ex parte reexamination. post-grant proceedings are increasingly common in the united states and are costly to defend. our patent rights may not provide us with a proprietary position or competitive advantages against competitors. furthermore, even if the outcome is favorable to us, the enforcement of our intellectual property rights can be extremely expensive and time consuming. we also currently hold issued trademark registrations and have trademark applications pending in the united states and other jurisdictions, any of which may be the subject of a governmental or third-party objection, which could prevent the maintenance or issuance of the trademark. as our products mature, our reliance on our trademarks to differentiate us from our competitors increases and as a result, if we are unable to prevent third parties from adopting, registering, or using trademarks that infringe, dilute or otherwise violate our trademark rights, our business could be adversely affected. 38 table of contents we may be restricted in our development, manufacturing, and/or commercialization activities by patents or other proprietary rights of others, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed such patents or rights. our commercial success depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of others (including those relating to trademarks, copyrights, and trade secrets). other parties may allege that they own blocking patents to our products in clinical development or even to products that have received regulatory approval and are being or have been commercialized, either because they claim to hold proprietary rights to the composition of a product or the way it is manufactured or the way it is used. moreover, other parties may allege that they have blocking patents to antibody-based products made using our velocimmune technology, or any other of our technologies, either because of the way the antibodies are discovered or produced or because of a proprietary composition covering an antibody or the antibody's target. we have been in the past, are currently, and may in the future be involved in patent litigation and other proceedings involving patents and other intellectual property. for example, we and/or our collaborator sanofi are currently party to patent infringement proceedings initiated by amgen against us and/or sanofi relating to praluent and patent infringement proceedings relating to dupixent, as described in note 16 to our consolidated financial statements. in addition, we are currently party to patent infringement proceedings initiated by us relating to our patents that concern genetically altered mice capable of producing chimeric antibodies that are part human and part mouse, as described in note 16 to our consolidated financial statements. we are aware of patents and pending patent applications owned by others that respectively claim antibodies to il-4r and methods of treating conditions including atopic dermatitis and asthma with such antibodies; antibodies to il-6r and methods of treating conditions including rheumatoid arthritis with such antibodies; antibodies to pcsk9 and methods of treating hypercholesterolemia with such antibodies; and antibodies to pd-1 and methods of treating cancer with such antibodies. in addition to dupixent (dupilumab), libtayo (cemiplimab), praluent (alirocumab), and kevzara (sarilumab), our late-stage antibody-based pipeline includes fasinumab, an antibody to ngf; evinacumab, an antibody to angptl3; regn-eb3, a multi-antibody therapy for ebola; garetosmab, an antibody to activin a; pozelimab, an antibody to c5; and regn1979, a bispecific antibody targeting cd20 and cd3. although we do not believe that any of our products or our late-stage antibody-based product candidates infringe any valid claim in these patents or patent applications, these other parties could initiate lawsuits for patent infringement and assert that their patents are valid and cover our products or our late-stage antibody-based product candidates, similar to the patent infringement proceedings referred to above. further, we are aware of a number of patent applications of others that, if granted with claims as currently drafted, may cover our current or planned activities. it could be determined that our products and/or actions in manufacturing or selling our products or product candidates infringe such patents. patent holders could assert claims against us for damages and seek to prevent us from manufacturing, selling, or developing our products or product candidates, and a court may find that we are infringing validly issued patents of others. in the event that the manufacture, use, or sale of any of our products or product candidates infringes on the patents or violates other proprietary rights of others, we may be prevented from pursuing product development, manufacturing, and commercialization of those drugs and may be required to pay costly damages. in addition, in the event that we assert our patent rights against other parties that we believe are infringing our patent rights, such parties may challenge the validity of our patents and we may become the target of litigation, which may result in an outcome that is unfavorable to us. any of these adverse developments may materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. in any event, legal disputes are likely to be costly and time consuming to defend. we seek to obtain licenses to patents when, in our judgment, such licenses are needed or advisable. for example, in august 2018, we and sanofi entered into a license agreement with bristol-myers squibb, e. r. squibb &amp; sons, and ono pharmaceutical to obtain a license under certain patents owned and/or exclusively licensed by one or more of these parties that includes the right to develop and sell libtayo. if any licenses are required, we may not be able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. the failure to obtain any such license could prevent us from developing or commercializing any one or more of our products or product candidates, which could severely harm our business. loss or limitation of patent rights, and new regulatory pathways for biosimilar competition, could reduce the duration of market exclusivity for our products. in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, the majority of an innovative product's commercial value is usually realized during the period in which it has market exclusivity. in the united states and some other countries, when market exclusivity expires and generic versions of a product are approved and marketed, there usually are very substantial and rapid declines in the product's sales. if our late-stage product candidates or other clinical candidates are approved for marketing in the united states or elsewhere, market exclusivity for those products will generally be based upon patent rights and/or certain regulatory forms of exclusivity. as described above under " if we cannot protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets, or our patents or other means of defending 39 table of contents our intellectual property are insufficient to protect our proprietary rights, our business and competitive position will be harmed, " the scope and enforceability of our patent rights may vary from country to country. the failure to obtain patent and other intellectual property rights, or limitations on the use, or the loss, of such rights could materially harm us. absent patent protection or regulatory exclusivity for our products, it is possible, both in the united states and elsewhere, that generic, biosimilar, and/or interchangeable versions of those products may be approved and marketed, which would likely result in substantial and rapid reductions in revenues from sales of those products. under the ppaca, there is an abbreviated path in the united states for regulatory approval of products that are demonstrated to be "biosimilar" or "interchangeable" with an fda-approved biological product. the ppaca provides a regulatory mechanism that allows for fda approval of biologic drugs that are similar to innovative drugs on the basis of less extensive data than is required by a full bla. under this regulation, an application for approval of a biosimilar may be filed four years after approval of the innovator product. however, qualified innovative biological products receive 12 years of regulatory exclusivity, meaning that the fda may not approve a biosimilar version until 12 years after the innovative biological product was first approved by the fda. however, the term of regulatory exclusivity may not remain at 12 years in the united states and could be shortened if, for example, the ppaca is amended. a number of jurisdictions outside of the united states have also established abbreviated pathways for regulatory approval of biological products that are biosimilar to earlier versions of biological products. for example, the eu has had an established regulatory pathway for biosimilars since 2005. the increased likelihood of biosimilar competition has increased the risk of loss of innovators' market exclusivity. it is also not possible to predict changes in united states regulatory law that might reduce biological product regulatory exclusivity. due to this risk, and uncertainties regarding patent protection, it is not possible to predict the length of market exclusivity for any particular product we currently or may in the future commercialize with certainty based solely on the expiration of the relevant patent(s) or the current forms of regulatory exclusivity. we are aware of several companies developing biosimilar versions of eylea. the loss of market exclusivity for a product (such as eylea) would likely materially and negatively affect revenues from product sales of that product and thus our financial results and condition. risks related to manufacturing and supply we rely on limited internal and contracted manufacturing and supply chain capacity, which could adversely affect our ability to commercialize our marketed products and, if approved, our product candidates and to advance our clinical pipeline. we have large-scale manufacturing operations in rensselaer, new york and limerick, ireland. manufacturing facilities operated by us and by third-party contract manufacturers engaged by us would be inadequate to produce the active pharmaceutical ingredients of our current marketed products and our product candidates in sufficient clinical quantities if our clinical pipeline advances as planned. in addition to expanding our internal capacity, we intend to continue to rely on our collaborators, and may also rely on contract manufacturers, to produce commercial quantities of drug material needed for commercialization of our products. as we increase our production in anticipation of potential regulatory approval for our late-stage product candidates, our current manufacturing capacity will likely not be sufficient, and our dependence on our collaborators and/or contract manufacturers may increase, to produce adequate quantities of drug material for both commercial and clinical purposes. we rely entirely on other parties and our collaborators for filling and finishing services, including with respect to drug-delivery devices (such as a pre-filled syringe, patch pump, auto-injector, or other delivery system). generally, in order for other parties to perform any step in the manufacturing and supply chain, we must transfer technology to the other party, which can be time consuming and may not be successfully accomplished without considerable cost and expense, or at all. we will have to depend on these other parties to perform effectively on a timely basis and to comply with regulatory requirements. if for any reason they are unable to do so, and as a result we are unable to directly or through other parties manufacture and supply sufficient commercial and clinical quantities of our products on acceptable terms, or if we should encounter delays or other difficulties with our collaborators, contract manufacturers, warehouses, shipping, testing laboratories, or other parties involved in our supply chain which adversely affect the timely manufacture and supply of our products or product candidates, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed. expanding our manufacturing capacity and establishing fill/finish capabilities will be costly and we may be unsuccessful in doing so in a timely manner, which could delay or prevent the launch and successful commercialization of our marketed products and late-stage product candidates or other indications for our marketed products if they are approved for marketing and could jeopardize our current and future clinical development programs. in addition to our existing manufacturing facilities in rensselaer, new york and limerick, ireland, we may lease, operate, purchase, or construct additional facilities to conduct expanded manufacturing or other related activities in the future. expanding our manufacturing capacity to supply commercial quantities of the active pharmaceutical ingredients for our marketed products and our late-stage product candidates if they are approved for marketing, and to supply clinical drug material to support the continued 40 table of contents growth of our clinical programs, will require substantial additional expenditures, time, and various regulatory approvals and permits. this also holds true for establishing fill/finish capabilities in the future, for which we have taken initial steps. further, we will need to hire and train significant numbers of employees and managerial personnel to staff our expanding manufacturing and supply chain operations, as well as any future fill/finish activities. start-up costs can be large, and scale-up entails significant risks related to process development and manufacturing yields. in addition, we may face difficulties or delays in developing or acquiring the necessary production equipment and technology to manufacture sufficient quantities of our product candidates at reasonable costs and in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. the fda and analogous foreign regulatory authorities must determine that our existing and any expanded manufacturing facilities and any future fill/finish activities comply, or continue to comply, with cgmp requirements for both clinical and commercial production and license them, or continue to license them, accordingly, and such facilities must also comply with applicable environmental, safety, and other governmental permitting requirements. we may not successfully expand or establish sufficient manufacturing or any future fill/finish capabilities or manufacture our products economically or in compliance with cgmps and other regulatory requirements, and we and our collaborators may not be able to build or procure additional capacity in the required timeframe to meet commercial demand for our late-stage product candidates if they receive regulatory approval, and to continue to meet the requirements of our clinical programs. this would interfere with our efforts to successfully commercialize our marketed products, and could also delay or require us to discontinue one or more of our clinical development programs. as a result, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition could be materially harmed. our ability to manufacture products may be impaired if any of our or our collaborators' manufacturing activities, or the activities of other third parties involved in our manufacture and supply chain, are found to infringe patents of others. our ability to continue to manufacture products in our rensselaer, new york and limerick, ireland facilities and at additional facilities (if any) in the future (including our ability to conduct any fill/finish activities in the future), the ability of our collaborators to manufacture products at their facilities, and our ability to utilize other third parties to produce our products, to supply raw materials or other products, or to perform fill/finish services or other steps in our manufacture and supply chain, depends on our and their ability to operate without infringing the patents or other intellectual property rights of others. other parties may allege that our or our collaborators' manufacturing activities, or the activities of other third parties involved in our manufacture and supply chain (which may be located in jurisdictions outside the united states), infringe patents or other intellectual property rights. a judicial or regulatory decision in favor of one or more parties making such allegations could directly or indirectly preclude the manufacture of our products to which those intellectual property rights apply on a temporary or permanent basis, which could materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. if sales of our marketed products do not meet the levels currently expected, or if the launch of any of our product candidates is delayed or unsuccessful, we may face costs related to excess inventory or unused capacity at our manufacturing facilities and at the facilities of third parties or our collaborators. we use our manufacturing facilities primarily to produce bulk product for commercial supply of our marketed products and clinical and preclinical candidates for ourselves and our collaborations. we also plan to use such facilities to produce bulk product for commercial supply of new indications of our marketed products and new product candidates if they are approved for marketing. if our clinical candidates are discontinued or their clinical development is delayed, if the launch of new indications for our marketed products or new product candidates is delayed or does not occur, or if such products are launched and the launch is unsuccessful or the product is subsequently recalled or marketing approval is rescinded, we may have to absorb one hundred percent of related overhead costs and inefficiencies, as well as similar costs of third-party contract manufacturers performing services for us. in addition, if we or our collaborators experience excess inventory, it may be necessary to write down or write off such excess inventory or incur an impairment charge with respect to the facility where such product is manufactured, which could adversely affect our operating results. third-party service or supply failures, or other failures, business interruptions, or other disasters affecting our manufacturing facilities in rensselaer, new york and limerick, ireland, the manufacturing facilities of our collaborators, or the facilities of any other party participating in the supply chain, would adversely affect our ability to supply our products. bulk drug materials are currently manufactured at our manufacturing facilities in rensselaer, new york and limerick, ireland, as well as at our collaborators' facilities. we and our collaborators would be unable to manufacture these materials if the relevant facility were to cease production due to regulatory requirements or actions, business interruptions, labor shortages or disputes, contaminations, fire, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, or other problems. many of our products and product candidates are very difficult to manufacture. as our products and product candidates are biologics, they require processing steps that are more difficult than those required for most chemical pharmaceuticals. accordingly, multiple steps are needed to control the manufacturing processes. problems with these manufacturing processes, even minor deviations from the normal process or from the materials used in the manufacturing process (which may not be detectable by us or our collaborators in a timely manner), could lead to product defects or manufacturing failures, resulting in lot failures, product recalls, 41 table of contents product liability claims, and insufficient inventory. also, the complexity of our manufacturing process may make it difficult, time-consuming, and expensive to transfer our technology to our collaborators or contract manufacturers. also, certain raw materials or other products necessary for the manufacture and formulation of our marketed products and product candidates, some of which are difficult to source, are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. in addition, we rely on certain third parties or our collaborators to perform filling, finishing, distribution, laboratory testing, and other services related to the manufacture of our marketed products and product candidates, and to supply various raw materials and other products. we would be unable to obtain these raw materials, other products, or services for an indeterminate period of time if any of these third parties were to cease or interrupt production or otherwise fail to supply these materials, products, or services to us for any reason, including due to regulatory requirements or actions (including recalls), adverse financial developments at or affecting the supplier, failure by the supplier to comply with cgmps, contaminations, business interruptions, or labor shortages or disputes. in any such circumstances, we may not be able to engage a backup or alternative supplier or service provider in a timely manner or at all. this, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our or our collaborators' ability to manufacture or supply marketed products and product candidates, which could materially and adversely affect our business and future prospects. certain of the raw materials required in the manufacture and testing of our products and product candidates may be derived from biological sources, including mammalian tissues, bovine serum, and human serum albumin. there are certain regulatory restrictions on using these biological source materials. if we or our collaborators are required to substitute for these sources to comply with such regulatory requirements, our clinical development or commercial activities may be delayed or interrupted. our or our collaborators' failure to meet the stringent requirements of governmental regulation in the manufacture of drug products or product candidates could result in incurring substantial remedial costs, delays in the development or approval of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products and/or in their commercial launch if they obtain regulatory approval, and a reduction in sales. we and our collaborators and other third-party providers are required to maintain compliance with cgmps, and are subject to inspections by the fda or comparable agencies in other jurisdictions to confirm such compliance. changes of suppliers or modifications of methods of manufacturing may require amending our application(s) to the fda or such comparable foreign agencies and acceptance of the change by the fda or such comparable foreign agencies prior to release of product(s). because we produce multiple products and product candidates at our facilities in rensselaer, new york and limerick, ireland, there are increased risks associated with cgmp compliance. our inability, or the inability of our collaborators and third-party fill/finish or other service providers, to demonstrate ongoing cgmp compliance could require us to engage in lengthy and expensive remediation efforts, withdraw or recall product, halt or interrupt clinical trials, and/or interrupt commercial supply of any marketed products, and could also delay or prevent our obtaining regulatory approval for our late-stage product candidates or new indications for our marketed products. any delay, interruption, or other issue that arises in the manufacture, fill/finish, packaging, or storage of any drug product or product candidate as a result of a failure of our facilities or the facilities or operations of our collaborators or other third parties to pass any regulatory agency inspection or maintain cgmp compliance could significantly impair our ability to develop, obtain approval for, and successfully commercialize our products, which would substantially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. any finding of non-compliance could also increase our costs, cause us to delay the development of our product candidates, result in delay in our obtaining, or our not obtaining, regulatory approval of product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, and cause us to lose revenue from any marketed products, which could be seriously detrimental to our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. regulatory and litigation risks if the testing or use of our products harms people, or is perceived to harm them even when such harm is unrelated to our products, we could be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims. the testing, manufacturing, marketing, and sale of drugs for use in people expose us to product liability risk. any informed consent or waivers obtained from people who enroll in our clinical trials may not protect us from liability or the cost of litigation. we may also be subject to claims by patients who use our approved products, or our product candidates if those product candidates receive regulatory approval and become commercially available, that they have been injured by a side effect associated with the drug. even in a circumstance in which we do not believe that an adverse event is related to our products or product candidates, the related investigation may be time consuming or inconclusive and may have a negative impact on our reputation or business. we may face product liability claims and be found responsible even if injury arises from the acts or omissions of third parties who provide fill/finish or other services. to the extent we maintain product liability insurance in relevant periods, such insurance may not cover all potential liabilities or may not completely cover any liability arising from any such litigation. moreover, in the future we may not have access to liability insurance or be able to maintain our insurance on acceptable terms. 42 table of contents if we market and sell approved products in a way that violates federal or state healthcare laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. the fda regulates the marketing and promotion of our products, which must comply with the food, drug, and cosmetic act and applicable fda implementing standards. the fda's review of promotional activities includes healthcare provider-directed and direct-to-consumer advertising as well as sales representatives' communications. the fda may take enforcement action for promoting unapproved uses of a product or other violations of its advertising laws and regulations. in addition to fda and related regulatory requirements, we are subject to health care "fraud and abuse" laws, such as the federal false claims act, the anti-kickback provisions of the federal social security act, and other state and federal laws and regulations. federal and state anti-kickback laws prohibit, among other things, payments or other remuneration to induce or reward someone to purchase, prescribe, endorse, or recommend a product that is reimbursed under federal or state healthcare programs. if we provide payments or other remuneration to a healthcare professional to induce the prescribing of our products, we could face liability under state and federal anti-kickback laws. recently, the bipartisan budget act of 2018 increased the criminal and civil penalties that can be imposed for violating certain federal health care laws, including the federal anti-kickback statute. federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, such as allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; reporting to pricing services inflated average wholesale prices that were then used by federal programs to set reimbursement rates; engaging in promotion for uses that the fda has not approved, known as off-label uses, that caused claims to be submitted to medicaid for non-covered off-label uses; and submitting inflated best price information to the medicaid rebate program. the majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer's products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines, and imprisonment. even if it is determined that we have not violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which would harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the safe harbors, it is possible that some of our business activities could be challenged under one or more of such laws. as described further in note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included in this report, we are cooperating with pending government investigations concerning certain of our business activities. any adverse finding, allegation, or exercise of enforcement or regulatory discretion in such investigations could harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. as part of the ppaca, the federal government requires that pharmaceutical manufacturers record any "transfers of value" made to u.s. prescribers and certain other healthcare providers and teaching hospitals. information provided by companies is aggregated and posted annually on an "open payments" website, which is managed by cms, the agency responsible for implementing these disclosure requirements. we continue to dedicate significant resources to comply with these requirements and need to be prepared to comply with additional reporting obligations outside of the united states that may apply in the future. the ppaca also includes various provisions designed to strengthen fraud-and-abuse enforcement, such as increased funding for enforcement efforts and the lowering of the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback statute and criminal health care fraud statute such that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. in addition, several states have legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, file periodic reports with the state, or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, and other activities. many of these requirements and standards are new or uncertain, and the penalties for failure to comply with these requirements may be unclear. if we are found not to be in full compliance with these laws, we could face enforcement actions, fines, and other penalties, and could receive adverse publicity, which would harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. additionally, access to such data by fraud-and-abuse investigators and industry critics may draw scrutiny to our collaborations with reported entities. risks from the improper conduct of employees, agents, contractors, or collaborators could adversely affect our reputation and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. we cannot ensure that our compliance controls, policies, and procedures will in every instance protect us from acts committed by our employees, agents, contractors, or collaborators that would violate the laws or regulations of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including, without limitation, healthcare, employment, foreign corrupt practices, trade restrictions and sanctions, environmental, competition, and patient privacy and other privacy laws and regulations. such improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations, and monetary and injunctive penalties, and could adversely impact our ability to conduct business, operating results, and reputation. 43 table of contents in particular, our business activities outside of the united states are subject to the foreign corrupt practices act, or fcpa, and similar anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws, regulations or rules of other countries in which we operate, including the u.k. bribery act. the fcpa generally prohibits offering, promising, giving, or authorizing others to give anything of value, either directly or indirectly, to a non-u.s. government official in order to influence official action, or otherwise obtain or retain business. the fcpa also requires public companies to make and keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect the transactions of the corporation and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls. our business is heavily regulated and therefore involves significant interaction with public officials, including officials of non-u.s. governments. additionally, in many other countries, the health care providers who prescribe pharmaceuticals are employed by their government, and the purchasers of pharmaceuticals are government entities; therefore, our dealings with these prescribers and purchasers are subject to regulation under the fcpa. recently the securities and exchange commission, or sec, and department of justice have increased their fcpa enforcement activities with respect to pharmaceutical companies. there is no certainty that all of our employees, agents, contractors, or collaborators, or those of our affiliates, will comply with all applicable laws and regulations, particularly given the high level of complexity of these laws. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, requirements to obtain export licenses, cessation of business activities in sanctioned countries, implementation of compliance programs, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business. any such violations could include prohibitions on our ability to offer our products in one or more countries and could materially damage our reputation, our brand, our ability to expand internationally, our ability to attract and retain employees, and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. our operations may involve hazardous materials and are subject to environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations. compliance with these laws and regulations is costly, and we may incur substantial liability arising from our activities involving the use of hazardous materials. as a fully integrated biotechnology company with significant research and development and manufacturing operations, we are subject to extensive environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations, including those governing the use of hazardous materials. our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of chemicals, infectious agents (such as viruses, bacteria, and fungi), radioactive compounds, and other hazardous materials. the cost of compliance with environmental, health, and safety regulations is substantial. if an accident involving these materials or an environmental discharge were to occur, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, or face regulatory actions, which could exceed our resources or insurance coverage. our business is subject to increasingly complex corporate governance, public disclosure, and accounting requirements and regulations that could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. we are subject to changing rules and regulations of various federal and state governmental authorities as well as the stock exchange on which our common stock is listed. these entities, including the sec and the nasdaq stock market llc, have issued a significant number of new and increasingly complex requirements and regulations over the course of the last several years and continue to develop additional requirements and regulations in response to laws enacted by congress, including the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and the dodd-frank wall street reform and protection act, or the dodd-frank act. there are significant corporate governance and executive compensation-related provisions in the dodd-frank act that expressly authorized or required the sec to adopt additional rules in these areas, a number of which have yet to be fully implemented. our efforts to comply with these requirements and regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, an increase in expenses and a diversion of management's time from other business activities. changes in laws and regulations affecting the healthcare industry could adversely affect our business. all aspects of our business, including research and development, manufacturing, marketing, pricing, sales, intellectual property rights, and the framework for dispute resolution and asserting our rights against others, are subject to extensive legislation and regulation. changes in applicable federal and state laws and agency regulations could have a materially negative impact on our business. these include: changes in the fda and foreign regulatory processes for new therapeutics that may delay or prevent the approval of any of our current or future product candidates; new laws, regulations, or judicial decisions related to healthcare availability or the payment for healthcare products and services, including prescription drugs, that would make it more difficult for us to market and sell products once they are approved by the fda or foreign regulatory agencies; changes in fda and foreign regulations that may require additional safety monitoring prior to or after the introduction of new products to market, which could materially increase our costs of doing business; and changes in fda and foreign cgmps that may make it more difficult and costly for us to maintain regulatory compliance and/or manufacture our marketed product and product candidates in accordance with cgmps. 44 table of contents as described above, the ppaca and potential regulations thereunder easing the entry of competing follow-on biologics into the marketplace, other new legislation or implementation of existing statutory provisions on importation of lower-cost competing drugs from other jurisdictions, and legislation on comparative effectiveness research are examples of previously enacted and possible future changes in laws that could adversely affect our business. the current u.s. administration and congress could carry out significant changes in legislation, regulation, and government policy (including with respect to the possible repeal of all or portions of the ppaca, government reimbursement changes and drug price control measures, and changes in the existing treaty and trade relationships with other countries), as evidenced by statements and actions of president trump and certain members of congress (including those discussed above under "risks related to commercialization of our marketed products, product candidates, and new indications for our marketed products - sales of our marketed products are dependent on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payors, and changes to such reimbursement may materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition "). while it is not possible to predict whether and when any such changes will occur, changes in the laws, regulations, and policies governing the development and approval of our product candidates and the commercialization, importation, and reimbursement of our products could adversely affect our business. in addition, our development and commercialization activities could be harmed or delayed by a shutdown of the u.s. government, including the fda. for example, a prolonged shutdown may significantly delay the fda's ability to timely review and process any submissions we have filed or may file or cause other regulatory delays, which could materially and adversely affect our business. risks associated with our operations outside of the united states could adversely affect our business. we have operations and conduct business outside the united states and we plan to expand these activities. consequently, we are, and will continue to be, subject to risks related to operating in foreign countries, which include: unfamiliar foreign laws or regulatory requirements or unexpected changes to those laws or requirements; other laws and regulatory requirements to which our business activities abroad are subject, such as the fcpa and the u.k. bribery act (discussed in greater detail above under " risks from the improper conduct of employees, agents, contractors, or collaborators could adversely affect our reputation and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition "); changes in the political or economic condition of a specific country or region; fluctuations in the value of foreign currency versus the u.s. dollar; tariffs, trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements, trade embargoes, and sanctions (including those administered by the office of foreign assets control of the u.s. department of the treasury), and other trade barriers; difficulties in attracting and retaining qualified personnel; and cultural differences in the conduct of business. for example, effective january 31, 2020, the united kingdom commenced an exit from the eu, commonly referred to as "brexit." during a transition period (set to expire on december 31, 2020), the british government will continue to negotiate the terms of the united kingdom's future relationship with the eu. the outcome of these negotiations is uncertain, and we do not know to what extent brexit will ultimately impact the business and regulatory environment in the united kingdom, the rest of the eu, or other countries. we have large-scale manufacturing operations in limerick, ireland and have also established an office in the vicinity of london. changes impacting our ability to conduct business in the united kingdom or other eu countries, or changes to the regulatory regime applicable to our operations in those countries (such as with respect to the approval of our product candidates), may materially and adversely impact our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. 45 table of contents we may incur additional tax liabilities related to our operations. we are subject to income tax in the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide tax liabilities, and our effective tax rate is derived from a combination of the applicable statutory rates in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. we record liabilities that involve significant management judgment for uncertain tax positions. the internal revenue service or other domestic or foreign taxing authorities may disagree with our interpretation of tax law as applied to the operations of regeneron and its subsidiaries or with the positions we may take with respect to particular tax issues on our tax returns. consequently, our reported effective tax rate and our after-tax cash flows may be materially and adversely affected by tax assessments or judgments in excess of accrued amounts we have estimated in preparing our financial statements. further, our effective tax rate may also be adversely affected by numerous other factors, including changes in the mix of our profitability from country to country, changes in tax laws and regulations, and tax effects of the accounting for stock-based compensation (which depend in part on the price of our stock and, therefore, are beyond our control). recommendations by the organization for economic co-operation and development and the european union anti-tax avoidance directive require companies to disclose more information to tax authorities on operations around the world, which may lead to greater audit scrutiny. even though we regularly assess the information provided to tax authorities in determining the appropriateness of our tax reserves, such tax authorities could take a position that is contrary to our expectations, and the result could adversely affect our provision for income tax and our current rate. we face potential liability related to the personal information we collect from individuals, data brokers, or research institutions or obtain from clinical trials sponsored by us or our collaborators. most u.s. health care providers, including research institutions from which we or our collaborators obtain patient health information, are subject to privacy and security regulations promulgated under the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, or hipaa, as amended by the health information technology for economic and clinical health act. for example, as part of our human genetics initiative, our wholly-owned subsidiary, regeneron genetics center llc, has entered into collaborations with research institutions, including the geisinger health system, which are subject to such regulations. regeneron is not currently classified as a covered entity or business associate under hipaa and thus is not subject to its requirements or penalties. however, we could be prosecuted under hipaa's criminal provisions either directly or under aiding-and-abetting or conspiracy principles. consequently, depending on the facts and circumstances, we could face substantial criminal penalties if we knowingly receive individually identifiable health information from a hipaa-covered health care provider or research institution that has not satisfied hipaa's requirements for disclosure of individually identifiable health information. there are instances where we collect and maintain sensitive personally identifiable information, which may include health information outside of the scope of hipaa. this information may be received throughout the clinical trial process, in the course of our research collaborations, and directly from individuals who enroll in our patient assistance programs. in the case of a breach of personal information we may be subject to state breach notification laws requiring notification of affected individuals and state regulators. our patient assistance programs and product marketing activities as part of which we collect california resident personal data are subject to the ccpa. the ccpa is a consumer protection law that provides california residents with personal data privacy rights and became effective on january 1, 2020. the ccpa requires us, among other things, to update our notices and develop new processes internally and with our partners. there are fines, penalties, and a private right of action resulting from non-compliance with the ccpa. several other u.s. states have introduced similar consumer protection laws that may go into effect in the near future. our clinical trial programs and research collaborations outside the u.s. (such as our consortium with a group of companies to fund the generation of genetic exome sequence data from the uk biobank health resource) implicate international data protection laws, including the european union's gdpr. the gdpr has created a range of new compliance obligations, including increased transparency requirements and new data subject rights. violations of the gdpr carry significant financial penalties for noncompliance (including possible fines of up to 4% of global annual turnover for the preceding financial year or 20 million (whichever is higher) for the most serious infringements). in addition to the gdpr, certain eu member states have issued or will be issuing their own implementation legislation. while we continue to monitor these developments, there remains some uncertainty surrounding the legal and regulatory environment for these evolving privacy and data protection laws. complying with varying jurisdictional requirements could increase the costs and complexity of compliance, including the new risk of substantial financial penalties for data breach or improper processing of personal data under the gdpr. failure by our collaborators to comply with the strict rules on the transfer of personal data outside of the eu into the u.s. may result in the imposition of criminal and administrative sanctions on such collaborators, which could adversely affect our business and could create liability for us. furthermore, health privacy laws, data breach notification laws, consumer protection laws, and genetic testing laws may apply directly to our operations and/or those of our collaborators and may impose restrictions on our collection, use, and dissemination of individuals' health and other personal information. moreover, individuals about whom we or our collaborators obtain health or other personal information, as well as the providers and third parties who share this information with us, may have statutory or contractual rights that limit our ability to use and disclose the information. we are likely to be required to expend significant capital 46 table of contents and other resources to ensure ongoing compliance with applicable privacy and data security laws both inside and outside the united states. claims that we have violated individuals' privacy rights or breached our contractual obligations, even if we are not found liable, could be expensive and time-consuming to defend and could result in adverse publicity that could harm our business. if we or any collaborators fail to comply with applicable federal, state, local, or foreign regulatory requirements, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions that could affect our or any collaborators' ability to commercialize our products and could harm, prevent, or substantially increase the cost of marketing and sales of any affected products that we are able to commercialize. any threatened or actual government enforcement action could also generate adverse publicity and require that we devote substantial resources that could otherwise be used in other aspects of our business. increasing use of social media could give rise to liability, breaches of data security, or reputational damage. we and our employees are increasingly utilizing social media tools as a means of communication both internally and externally. despite our efforts to monitor evolving social media communication guidelines and comply with applicable rules, there is risk that the use of social media by us or our employees to communicate about our products or business may cause us to be found in violation of applicable requirements. in addition, our employees may knowingly or inadvertently make use of social media in ways that may not comply with our social media policy or other legal or contractual requirements, which may give rise to liability, lead to the loss of trade secrets or other intellectual property, or result in public exposure of personal information of our employees, clinical trial patients, customers, and others. furthermore, negative posts or comments about us or our products in social media could seriously damage our reputation, brand image, and goodwill. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. risks related to our reliance on third parties if our antibody collaboration or our io collaboration with sanofi is terminated, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition, and our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize certain of our products and product candidates in the time expected, or at all, would be materially harmed. we rely on funding and support from sanofi to develop, manufacture, and commercialize certain of our products and product candidates. with respect to the products that we are co-developing with sanofi under our antibody collaboration ( i.e. , after giving effect to the antibody collaboration restructuring, dupixent and regn3500), sanofi funds a significant portion of development expenses incurred in connection with the development of these products. in addition, we rely on sanofi to lead much of the clinical development efforts, assist with or lead efforts to obtain and maintain regulatory approvals, and lead the commercialization efforts for these products and product candidates. as a result of the amendment and restatement of our io discovery and development agreement with sanofi (which forms part of our io collaboration), we have all rights to, and we fund and conduct on our own all research, development, manufacturing, and commercialization activities to support, all of our immuno-oncology product candidates other than muc16xcd3 program antibodies (such as regn4018) and bcmaxcd3 program antibodies (such as regn5458 and regn5459). if sanofi does not elect to co-develop muc16xcd3 program antibodies or bcmaxcd3 program antibodies under our io collaboration, or opts out of their development under our io collaboration, we will be required to fund and conduct on our own all such efforts to support those product candidates, unless we enter into arrangements with other parties. if sanofi elects to co-develop bcmaxcd3 program antibodies and/or muc16xcd3 program antibodies under our io collaboration, sanofi will initially fund the development expenses incurred in connection with the development of bcmaxcd3 program antibodies, for which sanofi will be the principal controlling party, and half of the development expenses incurred in connection with the clinical development of muc16xcd3 program antibodies, for which we will be the principal controlling party. under our io collaboration, sanofi also funds half of the development expenses incurred in connection with the clinical development of libtayo, subject to an agreed-upon development budget. in addition, if sanofi elects to co-develop bcmaxcd3 program antibodies, sanofi will lead much of the clinical development efforts and assist with obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval. we also rely on sanofi to lead commercialization efforts outside the united states for libtayo. following regulatory approval, we will rely on sanofi to lead (i) the commercialization efforts in the united states for bcmaxcd3 program antibodies and (ii) the commercialization efforts outside the united states for muc16xcd3 program antibodies and bcmaxcd3 program antibodies. 47 table of contents if sanofi terminates the antibody collaboration or the io collaboration or fails to comply with its payment obligations under any of our collaborations, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be materially harmed. we would be required to either expend substantially more resources than we have anticipated to support our research and development efforts, which could require us to seek additional funding that might not be available on favorable terms or at all, or materially cut back on such activities. if sanofi does not perform its obligations with respect to the product candidates that it elects to co-develop, our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize these product candidates will be significantly adversely affected. we have limited commercial capabilities outside the united states and would have to develop or outsource these capabilities for products commercialized under our antibody collaboration or our io collaboration (see also "risks related to commercialization of our marketed products, product candidates, and new indications for our marketed products - if we are unable to establish commercial capabilities outside the united states for products we intend to commercialize or co-commercialize outside the united states, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be adversely affected " above). termination of the antibody collaboration or the io collaboration would create substantial new and additional risks to the successful development and commercialization of the products subject to such collaborations, particularly outside the united states. if our collaboration with bayer for eylea is terminated, or bayer materially breaches its obligations thereunder, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition, and our ability to continue to commercialize eylea outside the united states would be materially harmed. we rely heavily on bayer with respect to the commercialization of eylea outside the united states. bayer is responsible for obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval outside the united states, as well as providing all sales, marketing, and commercial support for the product outside the united states. in particular, bayer has responsibility for selling eylea outside the united states using its sales force and, in japan, in cooperation with santen pursuant to a co-promotion and distribution agreement, as in effect from time to time, with bayer's japanese affiliate. if bayer and, in japan, santen do not perform their obligations in a timely manner, or at all, our ability to commercialize eylea outside the united states will be significantly adversely affected. bayer has the right to terminate its collaboration agreement with us at any time upon six or twelve months' advance notice, depending on the circumstances giving rise to termination. if bayer were to terminate its collaboration agreement with us, we may not have the resources or skills to replace those of our collaborator, which could require us to seek another collaboration that might not be available on favorable terms or at all, and could cause significant issues for the commercialization of eylea outside the united states and result in substantial additional costs and/or lower revenues to us. we have limited commercial capabilities outside the united states and would have to develop or outsource these capabilities (see also "risks related to commercialization of our marketed products, product candidates, and new indications for our marketed products - if we are unable to establish commercial capabilities outside the united states for products we intend to commercialize or co-commercialize outside the united states, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be adversely affected " above). termination of the bayer collaboration agreement would create substantial new and additional risks to the successful commercialization of eylea outside the united states. our collaborators and service providers may fail to perform adequately in their efforts to support the development, manufacture, and commercialization of our drug candidates and current and future products. we depend upon third-party collaborators, including sanofi, bayer, and service providers such as cros, outside testing laboratories, clinical investigator sites, third-party manufacturers, fill/finish providers, and product packagers and labelers, to assist us in the manufacture and preclinical and clinical development of our product candidates. we also depend, or will depend, on some of these third parties in connection with the commercialization of our marketed products and our late-stage product candidates and new indications for our marketed products if they are approved for marketing. if any of our existing collaborators or service providers breaches or terminates its agreement with us or does not perform its development or manufacturing services under an agreement in a timely manner (including as a result of its inability to perform due to financial or other relevant constraints) or in compliance with applicable gmps, glps, or gcp standards, we could experience additional costs, delays, and difficulties in the manufacture or development of, or in obtaining approval by regulatory authorities for, or successfully commercializing our product candidates. we and our collaborators rely on third-party service providers to support the distribution of our marketed products and for many other related activities in connection with the commercialization of these marketed products. despite our or our collaborators' arrangements with them, these third parties may not perform adequately. if these service providers do not perform their services adequately, sales of our marketed products will suffer. 48 table of contents risk related to employees we are dependent on our key personnel and if we cannot recruit and retain leaders in our research, development, manufacturing, and commercial organizations, our business will be harmed. we are highly dependent on certain of our executive officers, other key members of our senior management team, and our chairman. if we are not able to retain (or for any other reason lose the services of) any of these persons, our business may suffer. in particular, we depend on the services of p. roy vagelos, m.d., the chairman of our board of directors; leonard s. schleifer, m.d., ph.d., our president and chief executive officer; and george d. yancopoulos, m.d., ph.d., our president and chief scientific officer. we are also highly dependent on the expertise and services of other senior management members leading our research, development, manufacturing, and commercialization efforts. there is intense competition in the biotechnology industry for qualified scientists and managerial personnel in the research, development, manufacture, and commercialization of drugs. we may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary to continue to advance our business and achieve our strategic objectives. information technology risks significant disruptions of information technology systems or breaches of data security could adversely affect our business. our business is increasingly dependent on critical, complex, and interdependent information technology systems, including internet-based systems, to support business processes as well as internal and external communications. the size and complexity of our computer systems make us potentially vulnerable to it system breakdowns, internal and external malicious intrusion, and computer viruses, which may impact product production and key business processes. we also have outsourced significant elements of our information technology infrastructure and operations to third parties, which may allow them to access our confidential information and may also make our systems vulnerable to service interruptions or to security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions by such third parties or others. in addition, our systems are potentially vulnerable to data security breaches - whether by employees or others - which may expose sensitive data to unauthorized persons. data security breaches could lead to the loss of trade secrets or other intellectual property, result in demands for ransom or other forms of blackmail, or lead to the public exposure of personal information (including sensitive personal information) of our employees, clinical trial patients, customers, and others. such attacks are of ever-increasing levels of sophistication and are made by groups and individuals with a wide range of motives (including industrial espionage) and expertise, including by organized criminal groups, "hacktivists," nation states, and others. as a company with an increasingly global presence, our systems are subject to frequent attacks. due to the nature of some of these attacks, there is a risk that an attack may remain undetected for a period of time. while we continue to make investments to improve the protection of data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent service interruptions or security breaches. such disruptions and breaches of security could result in legal proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, disruptions to our operations, and damage to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. risks related to our financial results, liquidity, and need for additional financing if we cannot sustain profitability, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be materially harmed. if we cannot sustain profitability, we may be unable to continue our operations. in the absence of substantial revenue from the sale of products on an ongoing basis, including our net product sales of eylea and funding we receive under our collaboration agreements (including our share of profits in connection with commercialization of eylea and dupixent under our collaboration agreements with bayer and sanofi, respectively), or from other sources, the amount, timing, nature, or source of which cannot be predicted, we may incur substantial losses again as we conduct our research and development activities, commercialize our approved products, and prepare for possible commercialization of our other product candidates and new indications of our marketed products. 49 table of contents we may need additional funding in the future, which may not be available to us, and which may force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts. we expend substantial resources for research and development, including costs associated with clinical testing of our product candidates and new indications of our marketed products, the commercialization of products, and capital expenditures. we believe our existing capital resources and borrowing availability under our revolving credit facility, together with funds generated by our current and anticipated eylea net product sales and funding we are entitled to receive under our collaboration agreements (including our share of profits in connection with commercialization of eylea and dupixent under our collaboration agreements with bayer and sanofi, respectively), will enable us to meet our anticipated operating needs for the foreseeable future. however, one or more of our collaboration agreements may terminate, our revenues may fall short of our projections or be delayed, or our expenses may increase, any of which could result in our capital being consumed significantly faster than anticipated. our expenses may increase for many reasons, including expenses in connection with the commercialization of our marketed products and the potential commercial launches of our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products, manufacturing scale-up, expenses related to clinical trials testing of antibody-based product candidates we are developing on our own (without a collaborator), and expenses for which we are responsible in accordance with the terms of our collaboration agreements. we cannot be certain that our existing capital resources and our current and anticipated revenues will be sufficient to meet our operating needs. we may require additional financing in the future and we may not be able to raise additional funds on acceptable terms or at all. for example, in march 2017, we completed a $720.0 million lease financing for our existing corporate headquarters and other rentable area consisting of approximately 150 acres of predominately office buildings and laboratory space located in tarrytown, new york, which will become due and payable in full on the five-year anniversary of the closing date unless extended with the consent of all the participants and subject to certain other conditions. our ability to refinance or to obtain additional financing could be adversely affected if there is a significant decline in the demand for our products or other significantly unfavorable changes in economic conditions. volatility in the financial markets could increase borrowing costs or affect our ability to raise capital. if additional financing is necessary and we obtain it through the sale of equity securities, such sales will likely be dilutive to our shareholders. debt financing arrangements may require us to pledge certain assets or enter into covenants that would restrict our business activities or our ability to incur further indebtedness and may be at interest rates and contain other terms that are not favorable to our shareholders. should we require and be unable to raise sufficient funds (i) to complete the development of our product candidates, (ii) to successfully commercialize our late-stage product candidates or new indications for our marketed products if they obtain regulatory approval, and (iii) to continue our manufacturing and marketing of our marketed products, we may face delay, reduction, or elimination of our research and development or preclinical or clinical programs and our commercialization activities, which would significantly limit our potential to generate revenue. changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. our revenue from outside of the united states will increase as our products, whether marketed by us or our collaborators, gain marketing approval in such jurisdictions. our primary foreign currency exposure relates to movements in the japanese yen, euro, british pound sterling, canadian dollar, and australian dollar. if the u.s. dollar weakens against a specific foreign currency, our revenues will increase, having a positive impact on net income, but our overall expenses will increase, having a negative impact. conversely, if the u.s. dollar strengthens against a specific foreign currency, our revenues will decrease, having a negative impact on net income, but our overall expenses will decrease, having a positive impact. therefore, significant changes in foreign exchange rates can impact our operating results and the financial condition of our company. our investments are subject to risks and other external factors that may result in losses or affect the liquidity of these investments. as of december 31, 2019 , we had $1.618 billion in cash and cash equivalents and $4.853 billion in marketable securities (including $618.8 million in equity securities). our investments consist primarily of debt securities, including investment-grade corporate bonds. these fixed-income investments are subject to external factors that may adversely affect their market value or liquidity, such as interest rate, liquidity, market, and issuer credit risks, including actual or anticipated changes in credit ratings. the equity securities we hold may experience significant volatility and may decline in value or become worthless if the issuer experiences an adverse development. furthermore, our equity investments could be subject to dilution (and decline in value) as a result of the issuance of additional equity interests by the applicable issuer. if any of our investments suffer market price declines, such declines may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. the elimination of libor could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. in july 2017, the united kingdom regulator that regulates the london interbank offered rate ("libor") announced its intention to phase out libor rates by the end of 2021. no consensus exists as to what rate or rates may become accepted alternatives to libor or whether libor rates will cease to be published or supported before or after 2021. a transition away from libor as a benchmark for establishing the applicable interest rate may adversely affect our outstanding variable-rate indebtedness and interest rate swaps, as well as floating-rate debt securities we hold. for example, if a published u.s. dollar libor rate is unavailable 50 table of contents after 2021, the rent payments for the leased facilities in tarrytown, new york, which are indexed to libor, will be determined using various alternative methods, any of which may result in interest obligations which are more than, or do not otherwise correlate over time with, the payments that would have been made on such debt if u.s. dollar libor was available in its current form. risks related to our common stock our stock price is extremely volatile. there has been significant volatility in our stock price and generally in the market prices of biotechnology companies' securities. various factors and events may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. these factors include, by way of example: net product sales of our marketed products (as recorded by us or our collaborators), in particular eylea, dupixent, and libtayo, as well as our overall operating results; if any of our product candidates or our new indications for our marketed products receive regulatory approval, net product sales of, and profits from, these product candidates and new indications; market acceptance of, and the market share for, our marketed products, especially eylea, dupixent, and libtayo; whether our net product sales and net profits underperform, meet, or exceed the expectations of investors or analysts; announcement of actions by the fda or foreign regulatory authorities or their respective advisory committees regarding our, or our collaborators', or our competitors', currently pending or future application(s) for regulatory approval of product candidate(s) or new indications for marketed products; announcement of submission of an application for regulatory approval of one or more of our, or our competitors', product candidates or new indications for marketed products; progress, delays, or results in clinical trials of our or our competitors' product candidates or new indications for marketed products; announcement of technological innovations or product candidates by us or competitors; claims by others that our products or technologies infringe their patents; challenges by others to our patents in the epo and in the uspto; public concern as to the safety or effectiveness of any of our marketed products or product candidates or new indications for our marketed products; pricing or reimbursement actions, decisions, or recommendations by government authorities, insurers, or other organizations (such as health maintenance organizations and pharmacy benefit management companies) affecting the coverage, reimbursement, or use of any of our marketed products or competitors' products; our ability to raise additional capital as needed on favorable terms; developments in our relationships with collaborators or key customers; developments in the biotechnology industry or in government regulation of healthcare, including those relating to compounding ( i.e. , a practice in which a pharmacist, a physician, or, in the case of an outsourcing facility, a person under the supervision of a pharmacist, combines, mixes, or alters ingredients of a drug to create a medication tailored to the needs of an individual patient); large sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors, or significant shareholders (or the expectation of any such sales); changes in tax rates, laws, or interpretation of tax laws; arrivals and departures of key personnel; general market conditions; our ability to repurchase our common stock under any share repurchase program on favorable terms or at all; trading activity that results from the rebalancing of stock indices in which our common stock is included, or the inclusion or exclusion of our common stock from such indices; other factors identified in these "risk factors"; and the perception by the investment community or our shareholders of any of the foregoing factors. the trading price of our common stock has been, and could continue to be, subject to wide fluctuations in response to these and other factors, including the sale or attempted sale of a large amount of our common stock in the market. as discussed in greater detail under " future sales of our common stock by our significant shareholders or us may depress our stock price and impair our ability to raise funds in new share offerings " below, a large percentage of our common stock is owned by a small number of our principal shareholders. as a result, the public float of our common stock ( i.e. , the portion of our common stock held by public investors, as opposed to the common stock held by our directors, officers, and principal shareholders) is low relative to many large public companies. as our common stock is less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership, its trading price may fluctuate significantly more than the stock market as a whole. these factors may exacerbate the volatility in the trading price of our common stock and may negatively impact your ability to liquidate your investment in regeneron at the time you wish at a price you consider satisfactory. broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the market price of our common 51 table of contents stock. in the past, securities class action litigation has often been initiated against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. this type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources, and could also require us to make substantial payments to satisfy judgments or to settle litigation, which may harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. future sales of our common stock by our significant shareholders or us may depress our stock price and impair our ability to raise funds in new share offerings. a small number of our shareholders beneficially own a substantial amount of our common stock. as of december 31, 2019 , our five largest shareholders (including our largest shareholder sanofi) plus dr. schleifer, our chief executive officer, beneficially owned approximately 45.2% of our outstanding shares of common stock, assuming, in the case of our chief executive officer, the conversion of his class a stock into common stock and the exercise of all options held by him which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2019 . as of december 31, 2019 , sanofi beneficially owned 23,350,365 shares of our common stock, representing approximately 21.5% of the shares of common stock then outstanding. under our january 2014 amended and restated investor agreement with sanofi, sanofi has three demand rights to require us to use all reasonable efforts to conduct a registered underwritten offering with respect to shares of our common stock held by sanofi from time to time; however, shares of our common stock held by sanofi from time to time are subject to a "lock-up" and may not be sold until december 20, 2020 (other than with respect to an aggregate of up to 869,828 shares, as to which we have agreed to waive the lock-up during the term of the letter agreement with sanofi described below under " our existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval and over our management " and which currently remain available to be sold in accordance with the letter agreement). these restrictions on dispositions are subject to earlier termination upon the occurrence of certain events, such as the consummation of a change-of-control transaction involving us or a dissolution or liquidation of our company. in an amendment to its schedule 13d filed on december 9, 2019, sanofi disclosed that, following expiration of the "lock-up," it may in its discretion dispose of or collateralize all or a portion of the common stock beneficially owned by it at any time or from time to time in accordance with the terms of the amended and restated investor agreement. if sanofi, our other significant shareholders, or we sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market (including, in the case of sanofi, as a result of the lock-up waiver referred to above), or there is a perception that such sales may occur, the market price of our common stock could fall. sales of common stock by our significant shareholders, including sanofi, also might make it more difficult for us to raise funds by selling equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. there can be no assurance that we will continue to repurchase shares of our common stock or that we will repurchase shares at favorable prices. our board of directors previously authorized a share repurchase program to repurchase up to $1.0 billion of our common stock (of which $746.0 million remained available as of december 31, 2019). any share repurchases will depend upon, among other factors, our cash balances and potential future capital requirements, our results of operations and financial condition, the price of our common stock on the nasdaq global select market, and other factors that we may deem relevant. we can provide no assurance that we will continue to repurchase shares of our common stock at favorable prices, if at all. our existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval and over our management. holders of class a stock, who are generally the shareholders who purchased their stock from us before our initial public offering, are entitled to ten votes per share, while holders of common stock are entitled to one vote per share. as of december 31, 2019 , holders of class a stock held 14.6% of the combined voting power of all shares of common stock and class a stock then outstanding. these shareholders, if acting together, would be in a position to significantly influence the election of our directors and the vote on certain corporate transactions that require majority or supermajority approval of the combined classes, including mergers and other business combinations. this may result in our taking corporate actions that other shareholders may not consider to be in their best interest and may affect the price of our common stock. as of december 31, 2019 : our current executive officers and directors beneficially owned 9.8% of our outstanding shares of common stock, assuming conversion of their class a stock into common stock and the exercise of all options held by such persons which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2019 , and 20.5% of the combined voting power of our outstanding shares of common stock and class a stock, assuming the exercise of all options held by such persons which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2019 ; and our five largest shareholders (including our largest shareholder sanofi) plus dr. schleifer, our chief executive officer, beneficially owned approximately 45.2% of our outstanding shares of common stock, assuming, in the case of our chief executive officer, the conversion of his class a stock into common stock and the exercise of all options held by him which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2019 . in addition, these five shareholders plus our chief executive officer held approximately 51.4% of the combined voting power of our outstanding shares of common stock and class 52 table of contents a stock, assuming the exercise of all options held by our chief executive officer which are exercisable within 60 days of december 31, 2019 . pursuant to the january 2014 amended and restated investor agreement with us, sanofi has agreed to vote its shares as recommended by our board of directors, except that it may elect to vote proportionally with the votes cast by all of our other shareholders with respect to certain change-of-control transactions and to vote in its sole discretion with respect to liquidation or dissolution of our company, stock issuances equal to or exceeding 20% of the outstanding shares or voting rights of common stock and class a stock (taken together), and new equity compensation plans or amendments if not materially consistent with our historical equity compensation practices. in addition, we are required under the amended and restated investor agreement to appoint an individual agreed upon by us and sanofi to our board of directors. subject to certain exceptions, we are required to use our reasonable efforts (including recommending that our shareholders vote in favor) to cause the election of this designee at our annual shareholder meetings for so long as (other than during the term of the letter agreement described below) sanofi maintains an equity interest in us that is the lower of (i) the highest percentage ownership sanofi attains following its acquisition of 20% of our outstanding shares of class a stock and common stock (taken together) (which occurred in april 2014), and (ii) 25% of our outstanding shares of class a stock and common stock (taken together) (the "highest percentage threshold"). this designee is required to be "independent" of our company, as determined under nasdaq rules, and not to be a current or former officer, director, employee, or paid consultant of sanofi. the current sanofi designee, n. anthony coles, m.d., is a class ii director whose current term expires at the 2020 annual shareholder meeting. effective january 7, 2018, we and sanofi and certain of sanofi's direct and indirect subsidiaries entered into a letter agreement in connection with (a) the increase of the development budget amount for libtayo set forth in the io license and collaboration agreement and (b) the allocation of additional funds to certain proposed activities relating to the dupilumab/regn3500 eligible investments. pursuant to the letter agreement, we have agreed, among other things, to grant a limited waiver of sanofi's obligation to maintain the highest percentage threshold during the term of the letter agreement in order to allow sanofi to satisfy in whole or in part (a) its funding obligations with respect to the libtayo development costs under the io license and collaboration agreement for the quarterly periods commencing on october 1, 2017 and ending on september 30, 2020 by selling up to 800,000 shares of our common stock directly or indirectly owned by sanofi (of which 373,880 currently remains available) and (b) its funding obligations with respect to the costs incurred by or on behalf of the parties to the antibody license and collaboration agreement with respect to the dupilumab/regn3500 eligible investments for the quarterly periods commencing on january 1, 2018 and ending on september 30, 2020 by selling up to 600,000 shares of our common stock directly or indirectly owned by sanofi (of which 495,948 currently remains available). if sanofi desires to sell shares of our common stock during the term of the letter agreement to satisfy a portion or all of its funding obligations for the libtayo development and/or dupilumab/regn3500 eligible investments, we may elect to purchase, in whole or in part, such shares from sanofi. if we do not elect to purchase such shares, sanofi may sell the applicable number of shares (subject to certain daily and quarterly limits) in one or more open-market transactions. in addition, we and sanofi have agreed that, upon termination of the letter agreement, the amended and restated investor agreement will be amended to define "highest percentage threshold" as the lower of (i) 25% of our outstanding shares of class a stock and common stock (taken together) and (ii) the higher of (a) sanofi's percentage ownership of class a stock and common stock (taken together) on such termination date and (b) the highest percentage ownership of our outstanding shares of class a stock and common stock (taken together) sanofi attains following such termination date. the anti-takeover effects of provisions of our charter, by-laws, and of new york corporate law, as well as the contractual provisions in our investor and collaboration agreements and certain provisions of our compensation plans and agreements, could deter, delay, or prevent an acquisition or other "change of control" of us and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. our certificate of incorporation, our by-laws, and the new york business corporation law contain various provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company or our management that shareholders may consider favorable or beneficial. some of these provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. these provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. these provisions include: authorization to issue "blank check" preferred stock, which is preferred stock that can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior shareholder approval, with rights senior to those of our common stock and class a stock; a staggered board of directors, so that it would take three successive annual shareholder meetings to replace all of our directors; a requirement that removal of directors may only be effected for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of at least eighty percent (80%) of the outstanding shares entitled to vote for directors, as well as a requirement that any vacancy on the board of directors may be filled only by the remaining directors; 53 table of contents a provision whereby any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of shareholders may be taken without a meeting, only if, prior to such action, all of our shareholders consent, the effect of which is to require that shareholder action may only be taken at a duly convened meeting; a requirement that any shareholder seeking to bring business before an annual meeting of shareholders must provide timely notice of this intention in writing and meet various other requirements; and under the new york business corporation law, in addition to certain restrictions which may apply to "business combinations" involving our company and an "interested shareholder," a plan of merger or consolidation of our company must be approved by two-thirds of the votes of all outstanding shares entitled to vote thereon. see the risk factor above captioned " our existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval and over our management. " pursuant to the january 2014 amended and restated investor agreement between us and sanofi, sanofi is bound by certain "standstill" provisions, which contractually prohibit sanofi from seeking to directly or indirectly exert control of our company or acquiring more than 30% of our class a stock and common stock (taken together). this prohibition will remain in place until the earliest of (i) the later of the fifth anniversaries of the expiration or earlier termination of our license and collaboration agreement with sanofi relating to our antibody collaboration or our zaltrap collaboration agreement with sanofi, each as amended; (ii) our announcement recommending acceptance by our shareholders of a tender offer or exchange offer that, if consummated, would constitute a change of control involving us; (iii) the public announcement of any definitive agreement providing for a change of control involving us; (iv) the date of any issuance of shares of common stock by us that would result in another party having more than 10% of the voting power of our outstanding class a stock and common stock (taken together) unless such party enters into a standstill agreement containing certain terms substantially similar to the standstill obligations of sanofi; or (v) other specified events, such as a liquidation or dissolution of our company. similarly, pursuant to our 2016 ang2 license and collaboration agreement with bayer (which was terminated on november 1, 2018 by agreement of the parties but whose "standstill" provisions continue to be in effect as described below), bayer is bound by certain "standstill" provisions, which contractually prohibit bayer from seeking to influence the control of our company or acquiring more than 20% of our outstanding class a stock and common stock (taken together). this prohibition will remain in place until the earliest of (i) november 1, 2023; (ii) the public announcement of a tender offer, exchange offer, or other proposal that would constitute a change of control of our company; (iii) the acquisition by a third party or a group of third parties (other than by dr. schleifer or his affiliates) of more than 20% of the voting power of our outstanding class a stock and common stock (taken together); (iv) the issuance of shares of capital stock to another party (other than to an underwriter in a public offering) that would result in such party's having more than 7% of the voting power of our outstanding class a stock and common stock (taken together) unless such third party enters into a standstill agreement containing terms substantially similar to the standstill obligations of bayer; or (v) other specified events, such as a liquidation or dissolution of our company. a similar "standstill" prohibition applies to bayer pursuant to our 2014 pdgfr-beta license and collaboration agreement with bayer (which agreement was terminated on july 31, 2017 by agreement of the parties but whose "standstill" provisions continue to be in effect until july 31, 2022 unless they expire earlier upon the occurrence of certain specified events). further, pursuant to the 2016 collaboration agreement between us and teva, teva and its affiliates are bound by certain "standstill" provisions, which contractually prohibit them from seeking to directly or indirectly exert control of our company or acquiring more than 5% of our class a stock and common stock (taken together). this prohibition will remain in place until the earliest of (i) the fifth anniversary of the expiration or earlier termination of the agreement; (ii) our announcement recommending acceptance by our shareholders of a tender offer or exchange offer that, if consummated, would constitute a change of control involving us; (iii) the public announcement of any definitive agreement providing for a change of control involving us; (iv) the acquisition by a third party or a group of third parties of more than 30% of the voting power of our outstanding class a stock and common stock (taken together); (v) the date of any issuance of shares of capital stock by us that would result in another party having more than 10% of the voting power of our outstanding class a stock and common stock (taken together) unless such party enters into a standstill agreement containing certain terms substantially similar to the standstill obligations of teva; or (vi) other specified events, such as a liquidation or dissolution of our company. in addition, our change in control severance plan and the employment agreement with our chief executive officer, each as amended and restated, provide for severance benefits in the event of termination as a result of a change in control of our company. also, equity awards issued under our second amended and restated 2000 long-term incentive plan, our 2014 long-term incentive plan, and our amended and restated 2014 long-term incentive plan may become fully vested in connection with a "change in control" of our company, as defined in the plans. further, under the amended and restated investor agreement between us and sanofi, we are required to appoint an individual agreed upon by us and sanofi to our board of directors and to use our reasonable efforts to cause the election of this designee at our annual shareholder meetings for so long as sanofi maintains a specified equity interest in us. as described above under " our existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval and over our management ," a sanofi designee currently serves on our board of 54 table of contents directors. these contractual provisions may also have the effect of deterring, delaying, or preventing an acquisition or other change in control. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 73 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our earnings and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to changes in interest rates, principally in connection with our investments in marketable securities, which consist primarily of corporate bonds, direct obligations of the u.s. government and its agencies and other debt securities guaranteed by the u.s. government, and municipal bonds. we do not believe we are materially exposed to changes in interest rates related to our investments, and we do not currently use interest rate derivative instruments to manage exposure to interest rate changes of our investments. we estimate that a 100 basis point, or 1%, unfavorable change in interest rates would have resulted in approximately a $48.6 million and $27.7 million decrease in the fair value of our investment portfolio as of december 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. 73 table of contents we have exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates, including the interest rate risk relating to our march 2017 variable rate tarrytown, new york lease (as described in part ii, item 7. "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - liquidity and capital resources - tarrytown, new york leases "). our interest rate exposure is primarily offset by our investments in marketable securities. in addition, we further manage our interest rate exposure related to our variable rate lease through the use of derivative instruments. all of our derivative instruments are utilized for risk management purposes and are not used for trading or speculative purposes. we continue to monitor our interest rate risk and may utilize additional derivative instruments and/or other strategies in the future to further mitigate our interest rate exposure. we have hedged a portion of our floating interest rate exposure using interest rate swap and interest rate cap contracts. we estimate that a 100 basis point, or 1%, unfavorable change in interest rates would not have a material impact on the fair value of our interest rate swap or interest rate cap contracts. credit quality risk we have an investment policy that includes guidelines on acceptable investment securities, minimum credit quality, maturity parameters, and concentration and diversification. nonetheless, deterioration of the credit quality of an investment security subsequent to purchase may subject us to the risk of not being able to recover the full principal value of the security. in 2019 , 2018 , and 2017 , we did not record any charges for other-than-temporary impairments of our available-for-sale debt securities. we are subject to credit risk associated with the receivables due from our collaborators, including bayer, sanofi, and teva. we are also subject to credit risk in connection with trade accounts receivable from our product sales. these trade accounts receivable are primarily due from several distributors and specialty pharmacies, who are our customers. we have contractual payment terms with each of our customers, and we monitor our customers' financial performance and credit worthiness so that we can properly assess and respond to any changes in their credit profile. during 2019 , 2018 , and 2017 , we did not recognize any charges for write-offs of accounts receivable related to our marketed products. as of december 31, 2019 and 2018 , three customers accounted on a combined basis for 97% and 99% , respectively, of our net trade accounts receivables. foreign exchange risk as discussed further above, bayer markets eylea outside the united states and sanofi markets dupixent, praluent, and kevzara worldwide, and we share in profits and losses with these collaborators from commercialization of products (including the receipt of a percentage of eylea sales in japan). in addition, pursuant to the applicable terms of the agreements with our collaborators, we also share in certain worldwide development expenses incurred by our collaborators. we also incur worldwide development expenses for clinical products we are developing independently, in addition to incurring expenses outside of the united states in connection with our international operations. therefore, significant changes in foreign exchange rates of the countries outside the united states where our product is sold, where development expenses are incurred by us or our collaborators, or where we incur operating expenses can impact our operating results and financial condition. as sales outside the united states continue to grow, and as we expand our international operations, we will continue to assess potential steps, including foreign currency hedging and other strategies, to mitigate our foreign exchange risk. market price risk we are exposed to price risk on equity securities included in our investment portfolio. our marketable securities include equity investments in publicly traded stock of companies, including common stock of companies with which we have entered into collaboration arrangements. changes in the fair value of our equity investments are included in other income (expense), net on the consolidated statements of income. we recorded $118.3 million of net unrealized gains and $41.9 million of net unrealized losses on equity securities in other income (expense), net for the years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively.