risk factors 6 risk factors . this report contains statements referring to whirlpool that are not historical facts and are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. these statements, which are intended to take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995, are based on current projections about operations, industry conditions, financial condition and liquidity. words that identify forward-looking statements include words such as may, could, will, should, possible, plan, predict, forecast, potential, anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, believe, may impact, on track, and words and terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance, a merger, or our businesses. in addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections, or other characterizations of future events or circumstances, including any underlying assumptions, are forward-looking statements. those statements are not guarantees and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict. therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from these forward-looking statements. these risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following: risks relating to our business we face intense competition in the major home appliance industry and failure to successfully compete may negatively affect our business and financial performance. each of our operating segments operates in a highly competitive business environment and faces intense competition from a growing number of competitors, many of which have strong consumer brand equity. several of these competitors, such as electrolux, lg, samsung, bosch siemens, panasonic and general electric are large, well-established companies, many ranking among the global fortune 150, and have demonstrated a commitment to success in the global market. moreover, the united states customer base includes large, sophisticated trade customers who have many choices and demand competitive products, services and prices. competition in the global appliance market is based on a number of factors including selling price, product features and design, performance, innovation, energy efficiency, quality, cost, distribution, and financial incentives, such as cooperative advertising, co-marketing funds, sales person incentives, volume rebates and terms. in the past, our competitors, especially global competitors with low-cost sources of supply and/or highly protected home markets outside the united states, have aggressively priced their products and/or introduced new products to increase market share. if we are unable to successfully compete in this highly competitive environment, our business and financial performance could be negatively affected. the loss of or substantial decline in sales to any of our key trade customers, which include lowe's, sears, home depot, best buy, casas bahia, ikea, major buying groups, and builders, could adversely affect our financial performance. we sell to a sophisticated customer base of large trade customers that have significant leverage as buyers over their suppliers. most of our products are not sold through long-term contracts, which facilitates the trade customers' ability to change volume among suppliers. as the trade customers continue to become larger, they may seek to use their position to improve their profitability by various means, including improved efficiency, lower pricing, and increased promotional programs. if we are unable to meet their demands requirements, our volume growth and financial results could be negatively affected. the loss of, or substantial decline in volume of, sales to lowe's, sears, home depot, best buy, casas bahia, ikea, major buying groups or builders, or any other trade customers to which we sell a significant amount of products, could adversely affect our financial performance. additionally, the loss of market share or financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, by these trade customers could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. changes in economic conditions could adversely affect demand for our products. a number of economic factors, including, but not limited to, gross domestic product, availability of consumer credit, interest rates, consumer sentiment and debt levels, retail trends, housing starts, sales of existing homes, the level of mortgage refinancing and defaults, and foreign currency exchange rates, generally affect demand for our products. higher unemployment rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, and higher tax rates adversely affect demand. a decline in economic activity and conditions in the united states, brazil, europe and the other markets in which we operate has had an adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations over the past few years, and future declines and adverse conditions could have a similar adverse affect. we face inventory and other asset risk. we record a write-down for product and component inventories that have become obsolete or exceed anticipated demand or net realizable value. we also review our long-lived and intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changed circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. if we determine that impairment has occurred, we record a write-down to adjust carrying value to fair value. although we believe our inventory and other asset related provisions are currently adequate, no assurance can be given that, given the unpredictable pace of product obsolescence and business conditions with trade customers and in general, we will not incur additional inventory or asset related charges. such charges could materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. 6 risks associated with our international operations may decrease our revenues and increase our costs. for the year ended december 31, 2011 , we derived approximately 49% of our net sales from outside of north america (which includes canada and mexico), including 27% in latin america, 17% in europe and 5% in asia. we expect that international sales will continue to account for a significant percentage of our net sales in the foreseeable future. accordingly, we face numerous risks associated with conducting international operations, any of which could negatively affect our financial performance. these risks include the following: changes in foreign country regulatory requirements; various import/export restrictions and the availability of required import/export licenses; imposition of foreign tariffs and other trade barriers; political, legal, and economic instability and uncertainty; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; changes in foreign country tax rules, regulations and other requirements, such as changes in tax rates and statutory and judicial interpretations of tax laws; inflation; work stoppages and disruptions in the shipping of imported and exported products; government price controls; extended payment terms and the inability to collect accounts receivable; and the inability to repatriate cash. additionally, as a u.s. corporation, we are subject to the foreign corrupt practices act, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage to foreign companies that are not subject to similar regulations. additionally, any determination that we have violated the foreign corrupt practices act could have a material adverse effect on us. terrorist attacks, armed conflicts, natural disasters, and epidemics could affect our domestic and international sales, disrupt our supply chain, and impair our ability to produce and deliver our products. such events could directly impact our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers, both in the united states and elsewhere. the recent european debt crisis could have a material adverse effect on our european operations. the recent european debt crisis and related european financial restructuring efforts have contributed to instability in the global credit markets and may cause the value of the euro to further deteriorate. if global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in europe, the united states or other key markets remain uncertain or deteriorate further, the value of the euro could decline and the credit market may weaken. the general financial instability in the stressed european countries could have a contagion effect on the region and contribute to the general instability and uncertainty in the european union. if this were to occur, it could adversely affect our european customers and suppliers and in turn may have a materially adverse effect on our european business and results of operations. an inability to effectively execute and manage our business objectives could adversely affect our financial performance. the highly competitive nature of our industry requires that we effectively execute and manage our business including our global operating platform initiative. our global operating platform initiative aims to reduce costs, expand margins, drive productivity and quality improvements, and accelerate our rate of innovation. our inability to effectively control costs and drive productivity improvements could affect our profits. in addition, our inability to provide high-quality, innovative products could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our sales, which it could negatively affect our revenues and overall financial performance. additionally, our success is dependent on anticipating changes in customer preferences and on successful new product and process development and product relaunches in response to such changes. our future results and our ability to maintain or improve our competitive position will depend on our capacity to gauge the direction of our key markets and upon our ability to successfully and timely identify, develop, manufacture, market, and sell new or improved products in these changing markets. fluctuations and volatility in the cost of raw materials and purchased components could adversely affect our operating results. the primary materials used to produce and manufacture our products are steel, oil, plastic resins, and base metals, such as aluminum, copper, zinc, and nickel. on a global and regional basis, the sources and prices of those materials and components are susceptible to significant price fluctuations due to supply/demand trends, transportation costs, government regulations and tariffs, changes in currency exchange rates, price controls, the economic climate, and other unforeseen circumstances. material cost inflation is expected to be approximately $300 million to $350 million in 2012 , largely driven by increases in the cost of base metals, such as copper, aluminum, zinc and nickel, as well as component parts and steel. continued significant increases in these and other costs in the future could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. unfavorable results of legal proceedings could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition and performance. we are subject to a variety of litigation and legal compliance risks, including litigation concerning products, intellectual property rights, taxes, environmental matters, commercial matters and compliance with competition laws and sales 7 and trading practices. results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. regardless of merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. we estimate loss contingencies and establish reserves as required by generally accepted accounting principles based on our assessment of contingencies where liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable in light of the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time. subsequent developments in legal proceedings, volatility in foreign currency exchange rates and other factors may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded and could result in an adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which a liability would be recognized or cash flows for the period in which amounts would be paid. actual results may significantly vary from our reserves. product liability or product recall costs could adversely affect our business and financial performance. we are subject to the risk of exposure to product liability and product recall claims if any of our products are alleged to have resulted in injury to persons or damage to property. in the event that any of our products prove to be defective, we may need to recall and/or redesign such products. in addition, any claim or product recall that results in significant adverse publicity, particularly if those claims or recalls cause customers to question the safety or reliability of our products, may negatively affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. we do maintain product liability insurance, but this insurance may not be adequate to cover losses related to product liability claims brought against us. we may also be involved in certain class action and other litigation, for which no insurance is available. product liability insurance could become more expensive and difficult to maintain and may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. in addition, we do not maintain any product recall insurance, so any product recall we are required to initiate could have a significant impact on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. we regularly engage in investigations of potential quality and safety issues as part of our ongoing effort to deliver quality products to our customers. we are currently investigating a limited number of potential quality and safety issues, and as necessary, we undertake to effect repair or replacement of appliances. actual costs of these issues and any future issues depend upon several factors, including the number of consumers who respond to a particular recall, repair and administrative costs, whether the cost of any corrective action is borne initially by whirlpool or the supplier, and, if initially borne by whirlpool, whether we will be successful in recovering our costs from the supplier. the actual costs incurred as a result of these issues and any future issues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to, and could be further subject to, governmental investigations or actions by other third parties. we are subject to various federal, foreign and state laws, including antitrust laws, violations of which can involve civil or criminal sanctions. government regulators in various jurisdictions are currently investigating alleged pricing practices in the global compressor industry, including our embraco compressor business headquartered in brazil. in addition, we have been named as a defendant in related class action lawsuits in various jurisdictions, which seek damages in connection with the pricing of compressors, and additional lawsuits may be filed. the impact of these and other investigations and lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, services, and brands. we consider our intellectual property rights, including patents, trademarks, trade secrets, and licensing agreements, to be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and third party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. our failure to obtain or adequately protect our trademarks, products, new features of our products, or our processes may diminish our competitiveness. we have applied for patent protection in the united states and other jurisdictions with respect to certain innovations and new products, product features, and processes. we cannot be assured that the u.s. patent and trademark office or any other jurisdiction will approve any of our patent applications. additionally, the patents we own could be challenged, invalidated, or others could design around our patents and the patents may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage. further, the laws of certain foreign countries in which we do business or contemplate doing business in the future do not recognize intellectual property rights or protect them to the same extent as united states law. as a result, these factors could weaken our competitive advantage with respect to our products, services, and brands in foreign jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our financial performance. moreover, while we do not believe that any of our products infringe on the valid intellectual property rights of third parties, others may assert intellectual property rights that cover some of our technology, brands, products, or services. any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly license agreements. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain products. 8 the ability of suppliers to deliver parts, components and manufacturing equipment to our manufacturing facilities, including our ability to manufacture without disruption, could affect our global business performance. we use a wide range of materials and components in the global production of our products and use numerous suppliers to provide materials and components. because we generally do not have guaranteed supply arrangements with our suppliers and some key parts may be available only from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers, we are subject to supply and pricing risks. in addition, certain proprietary component parts used in some of our products are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. we would be unable to obtain these proprietary component parts for an indeterminate period of time if these single-source suppliers were to cease or interrupt production or otherwise fail to supply these components to us, which could adversely affect our product sales and operating results. our operations and operations at suppliers' facilities are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, work stoppages, fire, earthquake, flooding, or other natural disasters. such disruption could interrupt our ability to manufacture certain products. any significant disruption could negatively impact our revenue and earnings performance. significant differences between actual results and estimates of the amount of future funding for our pension plans and postretirement health care benefit programs, and significant changes in funding assumptions or significant increases in funding obligations due to regulatory changes, could adversely affect our financial results. we have both funded and unfunded defined benefit pension plans that cover certain employees in north america, europe, asia and brazil. we also have unfunded postretirement health care benefit plans for eligible retired employees. the employee retirement income security act of 1974 (erisa), the pension protection act and the internal revenue code govern the funding obligations for our u.s. pension plans, which are our principal pension plans. our u.s. defined benefit plans were frozen as of december 31, 2006 for substantially all participants. for 2007 and beyond, whirlpool employees may participate in an enhanced defined contribution plan. as of december 31, 2011 , our projected benefit obligations under our pension plans and postretirement health care benefit programs exceeded the fair value of plan assets by an aggregate of approximately $1,990 million ($1,502 million of which was attributable to pension plans and $488 million of which was attributable to postretirement health care benefits). estimates for the amount and timing of the future funding obligations of these pension plans and postretirement health care benefit plans are based on various assumptions. these assumptions include discount rates, expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, and health care cost trend rates. these assumptions are subject to change based on changes in interest rates on high quality bonds, stock and bond market returns, and health care cost trend rates. significant differences in results or significant changes in assumptions may materially affect our postretirement obligations and related future contributions and expenses. we may be subject to information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches in data security, which may materially adversely affect our operations, financial condition and operating results. we depend on information technology as an enabler to improve the effectiveness of our operations and to interface with our customers, as well as to maintain financial accuracy and efficiency. information technology system failures could disrupt our operations by causing transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, delays or cancellation of customer orders, the loss of customers, impediments to the manufacture or shipment of products, other business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach. in addition, we have outsourced certain information technology support services and administrative functions, such as payroll processing and benefit plan administration, to third-party service providers and may outsource other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. if the service providers to which we outsource these functions do not perform effectively, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings and may have to incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers. depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach, or harm employee morale. our information systems could also be penetrated by outside parties intent on extracting information, corrupting information or disrupting business processes. such unauthorized access could disrupt our business and could result in the loss of assets. a deterioration in labor relations could adversely impact our global business. as of december 31, 2011 , we had approximately 68,000 employees. of those employees, various labor unions with separate collective bargaining agreements represent approximately 59% . our current collective bargaining agreements generally have three year terms. due to the large number of collective bargaining agreements, we are periodically in negotiations with certain of the unions representing our employees. we may be subject to employee work stoppages that, if such events were to occur, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. further, we cannot be assured that we will be able to renew collective bargaining agreements on the same or similar terms, or at all, which may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. our ability to attract, develop and retain executives and other qualified employees is crucial to our results of operations and future growth. we depend upon the continued services and performance of our key executives, senior management and skilled personnel, particularly our professionals with experience in our business and operations and the home appliance industry. 9 we cannot be sure that any of these individuals will continue to be employed by us. a lengthy period of time is required to hire and develop replacement personnel when skilled personnel depart whirlpool. an inability to hire, develop and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees could materially hinder our business by, for example, delaying our ability to bring new products to market or impairing the success of our operations. changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. the conduct of our businesses, and the production, distribution, sale, advertising, safety, transportation and use of many of our products, are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the united states, as well as to foreign laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies in markets in which we operate. these laws and regulations may change, sometimes dramatically, as a result of political, economic or social events. changes in laws, regulations or governmental policy and the related interpretations may alter the environment in which we do business and, therefore, may impact our results or increase our costs or liabilities. in addition, we incur and will continue to incur capital and other expenditures to comply with various laws and regulations, especially relating to, protection of the environment, human health and safety and energy efficiency. these types of costs could adversely affect our financial performance. additionally, we could be subjected to future liabilities, fines or penalties or the suspension of product production for failing to comply with various laws and regulations, including environmental regulations. cleanup obligations that might arise at any of our manufacturing sites or the imposition of more stringent environmental laws in the future could adversely affect us. foreign currency fluctuations may affect our financial performance. we generate a significant portion of our revenue and incur a significant portion of our expenses in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. changes in the exchange rates of functional currencies of those operations affect the u.s. dollar value of our revenue and earnings from our foreign operations. we use currency forwards and options to manage our foreign currency transaction exposures. we cannot completely eliminate our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations, which may adversely affect our financial performance. in addition, because our consolidated financial results are reported in dollars, if we generate sales or earnings in other currencies, the translation of those results into dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those sales or earnings. finally, the amount of legal contingencies related to foreign operations may fluctuate significantly based upon changes in the exchange rates and usually cannot be managed with currency forwards, options or other arrangements. such fluctuations in exchange rates can significantly increase or decrease the amount of any legal contingency related to our foreign operations and make it difficult to assess and manage the potential exposure. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 12 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. see market risk in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in the financial supplement to this report.risk factors 6 risk factors . this report contains statements referring to whirlpool that are not historical facts and are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. these statements, which are intended to take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995, are based on current projections about operations, industry conditions, financial condition and liquidity. words that identify forward-looking statements include words such as may, could, will, should, possible, plan, predict, forecast, potential, anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, believe, may impact, on track, and words and terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance, a merger, or our businesses. in addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections, or other characterizations of future events or circumstances, including any underlying assumptions, are forward-looking statements. those statements are not guarantees and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict. therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from these forward-looking statements. these risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following: risks relating to our business we face intense competition in the major home appliance industry and failure to successfully compete may negatively affect our business and financial performance. each of our operating segments operates in a highly competitive business environment and faces intense competition from a growing number of competitors, many of which have strong consumer brand equity. several of these competitors, such as electrolux, lg, samsung, bosch siemens, panasonic and general electric are large, well-established companies, many ranking among the global fortune 150, and have demonstrated a commitment to success in the global market. moreover, the united states customer base includes large, sophisticated trade customers who have many choices and demand competitive products, services and prices. competition in the global appliance market is based on a number of factors including selling price, product features and design, performance, innovation, reputation, energy efficiency, quality, cost, distribution, and financial incentives, such as cooperative advertising, co-marketing funds, sales person incentives, volume rebates and terms. in the past, our competitors, especially global competitors with low-cost sources of supply and/or highly protected home markets outside the united states, have aggressively priced their products and/or introduced new products to increase market share. if we are unable to successfully compete in this highly competitive environment, our business and financial performance could be negatively affected. the loss of or substantial decline in sales to any of our key trade customers, which include lowe's, sears, home depot, best buy, casas bahia, ikea, alno, major buying groups, and builders, could adversely affect our financial performance. we sell to a sophisticated customer base of large trade customers that have significant leverage as buyers over their suppliers. most of our products are not sold through long-term contracts, which facilitates the trade customers' ability to change volume among suppliers. as the trade customers continue to become larger, they may seek to use their position to improve their profitability by various means, including improved efficiency, lower pricing, and increased promotional programs. if we are unable to meet their demands requirements, our volume growth and financial results could be negatively affected. the loss of, or substantial decline in volume of, sales to lowe's, sears, home depot, best buy, casas bahia, ikea, alno, major buying groups or builders, or any other trade customers to which we sell a significant amount of products, could adversely affect our financial performance. additionally, the loss of market share or financial difficulties, including bankruptcy and financial restructuring, by these trade customers could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. changes in economic conditions could adversely affect demand for our products. a number of economic factors, including, but not limited to, gross domestic product, availability of consumer credit, interest rates, consumer sentiment and debt levels, retail trends, housing starts, sales of existing homes, the level of mortgage refinancing and defaults, fiscal and credit market uncertainty, and foreign currency exchange rates, generally affect demand for our products. higher unemployment rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, higher deficit spending and debt levels, and higher tax rates adversely affect demand. a decline in economic activity and conditions in the united states, brazil, europe and the other markets in which we operate has had an adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations over the past few years, and future declines and adverse conditions could have a similar adverse affect. we face inventory and other asset risk. we write-down for product and component inventories that have become obsolete or exceed anticipated demand or net realizable value. we also review our long-lived and intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changed circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. if we determine that impairment has occurred, we record a write-down to adjust carrying value to fair value. although we believe our inventory and other asset related provisions are currently adequate, no assurance can be given that, given the unpredictable pace of product obsolescence and business conditions with trade customers and in general, we will not incur additional inventory or asset related charges. such charges could materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. 6 risks associated with our international operations may decrease our revenues and increase our costs. for the year ended december 31, 2012 , we derived approximately 48% of our net sales from outside of north america (which includes canada and mexico), including 27% in latin america, 16% in emea and 5% in asia. we expect that international sales will continue to account for a significant percentage of our net sales in the foreseeable future. accordingly, we face numerous risks associated with conducting international operations, any of which could negatively affect our financial performance. these risks include the following: changes in foreign country regulatory requirements; various import/export restrictions and the availability of required import/export licenses; imposition of foreign tariffs and other trade barriers; political, legal, and economic instability and uncertainty; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; changes in foreign country tax rules, regulations and other requirements, such as changes in tax rates and statutory and judicial interpretations of tax laws; inflation; managing widespread operations and enforcing internal policies and procedures such as compliance with u.s. and foreign anti-bribery and anti-corruption regulations, such as the foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ), and anti-trust laws; work stoppages and labor relations; disruptions in the shipping of imported and exported products; government price controls; extended payment terms and the inability to collect accounts receivable; and limitations on the repatriation of earnings. as a u.s. corporation, we are subject to the fcpa, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage to foreign companies that are not subject to similar regulations. additionally, any determination that we have violated the fcpa could have a material adverse effect on us. terrorist attacks, armed conflicts, labor disputes, natural disasters, and epidemics could affect our domestic and international sales, disrupt our supply chain, and impair our ability to produce and deliver our products. such events could directly impact our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers, both in the united states and elsewhere. we are exposed to risks associated with the uncertain global economy. uncertain global economic conditions and slowing or negative growth in the united states, europe, and china, along with continuing difficulties in the financial markets, national debt and fiscal concerns in various regions (including a potential fiscal cliff in the united states), and government austerity measures, are posing challenges to the industry in which whirlpool operates. the markets for our products depend largely on consumer spending and the availability of financing. economic uncertainty and related factors exacerbate negative trends in business and consumer spending and may cause certain customers to push out, cancel, or refrain from placing orders for our products. uncertain market conditions, difficulties in obtaining capital, or reduced profitability may also cause some customers to scale back operations, exit markets, merge with other retailers, or file for bankruptcy protection and potentially cease operations, which can also result in lower sales and/or additional inventory. these conditions may similarly affect key suppliers, which could impair their ability to deliver parts and result in delays for our products or added costs. in addition, these conditions may lead to strategic alliances by, or consolidation of, other appliance manufacturers, which could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. uncertainty about future economic and industry conditions also makes it more challenging for us to forecast our operating results, make business decisions, and identify and prioritize the risks that may affect our businesses, sources and uses of cash, financial condition and results of operations. we may be required to implement additional cost reduction efforts, including restructuring activities, which may adversely affect our ability to capitalize on opportunities in a market recovery. in addition, our operations are subject to general credit, liquidity, foreign exchange, market and interest rate risks. if we do not timely and appropriately adapt to changes resulting from the uncertain macroeconomic environment and industry conditions, or to difficulties in the financial markets, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 7 an inability to effectively execute and manage our business objectives could adversely affect our financial performance. the highly competitive nature of our industry requires that we effectively execute and manage our business including our global operating platform initiative. our global operating platform initiative aims to reduce costs, expand margins, drive productivity and quality improvements, and accelerate our rate of innovation. our inability to effectively control costs and drive productivity improvements could affect our profits. in addition, our inability to provide high-quality, innovative products could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our sales, which it could negatively affect our revenues and overall financial performance. additionally, our success is dependent on anticipating changes in customer preferences and on successful new product and process development and product relaunches in response to such changes. our future results and our ability to maintain or improve our competitive position will depend on our capacity to gauge the direction of our key markets and upon our ability to successfully and timely identify, develop, manufacture, market, and sell new or improved products in these changing markets. failure to maintain our reputation and brand image could negatively impact our business. our brands have worldwide recognition, and our success depends on our ability to maintain and enhance our brand image and reputation. maintaining, promoting and growing our brands depends on our design and marketing efforts, including advertising and consumer campaigns, as well as product innovation. we could be adversely impacted if we fail to achieve any of these objectives or if, whether or not justified, the reputation or image of any of our brands is tarnished or receives negative publicity. in addition, adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us could damage our reputation and brand image, undermine our customers' confidence in us and reduce long-term demand for our products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. in addition, our success in maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, including our increasing reliance on social media and online dissemination of advertising campaigns. negative posts or comments about us on social networking and other websites could seriously damage our reputation and brand image. if we do not maintain, extend and expand our brand image, then our product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. fluctuations and volatility in the cost of raw materials and purchased components could adversely affect our operating results. the primary materials used to produce and manufacture our products are steel, oil, plastic resins, and base metals, such as aluminum, copper, zinc, and nickel. on a global and regional basis, the sources and prices of those materials and components are susceptible to significant price fluctuations due to supply/demand trends, transportation costs, government regulations and tariffs, changes in currency exchange rates, price controls, the economic climate, and other unforeseen circumstances. these inflationary costs are expected to have a material impact in 2013, largely driven by increases in the cost of plastic resins and base metals, such as copper, aluminum, zinc and nickel, as well as component parts. continued significant increases in these and other costs in the future could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. unfavorable results of legal and tax proceedings could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition and performance. we are subject to a variety of litigation and legal compliance risks, including litigation concerning products, intellectual property rights, taxes, environmental matters, commercial matters and compliance with competition laws and sales and trading practices. results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. regardless of merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant diversion of management attention and expense, for which no insurance is likely available. we estimate loss contingencies and establish accruals as required by generally accepted accounting principles based on our assessment of contingencies where liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable in light of the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time. subsequent developments in legal proceedings, volatility in foreign currency exchange rates and other factors may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded and could result in an adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which a liability would be recognized or cash flows for the period in which amounts would be paid. actual results may significantly vary from our reserves. product liability or product recall costs could adversely affect our business and financial performance. we are subject to the risk of exposure to product liability and product recall claims if any of our products are alleged to have resulted in injury to persons or damage to property. in the event that any of our products prove to be defective, we may need to recall and/or redesign such products. in addition, any claim or product recall that results in significant adverse publicity, particularly if those claims or recalls cause customers to question the safety or reliability of our products, may negatively affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. we do maintain product liability insurance, but this insurance may not be adequate to cover losses related to product liability claims brought against us. we may also be involved in certain class action and other litigation, for which no insurance is available. product liability insurance could become more expensive and difficult to maintain and may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. in addition, we do not maintain any product recall insurance, so any product recall we are required to initiate could have a significant impact on our operating results and/or cash flows. 8 we regularly engage in investigations of potential quality and safety issues as part of our ongoing effort to deliver quality products to our customers. we are currently investigating a limited number of potential quality and safety issues, and as necessary, we undertake to effect repair or replacement of appliances. actual costs of these issues and any future issues depend upon several factors, including the number of consumers who respond to a particular recall, repair and administrative costs, whether the cost of any corrective action is borne initially by whirlpool or the supplier, and, if initially borne by whirlpool, whether we will be successful in recovering our costs from the supplier. the actual costs incurred as a result of these issues and any future issues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to, and could be further subject to, governmental investigations or actions by other third parties. we are subject to various federal, foreign and state laws, including antitrust laws, violations of which can involve civil or criminal sanctions. government regulators in various jurisdictions are currently investigating alleged pricing practices in the global compressor industry, including our embraco compressor business headquartered in brazil. in addition, we have been named as a defendant in related lawsuits in various jurisdictions, which seek damages in connection with the pricing of compressors, and additional lawsuits may be filed. the impact of these and other investigations and lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, services, and brands. we consider our intellectual property rights, including patents, trademarks, trade secrets, and licensing agreements, to be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and third party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. our failure to obtain or adequately protect our trademarks, products, new features of our products, or our processes may diminish our competitiveness. we have applied for patent protection in the united states and other jurisdictions with respect to certain innovations and new products, product features, and processes. we cannot be assured that the u.s. patent and trademark office or any other jurisdiction will approve any of our patent applications. additionally, the patents we own could be challenged, invalidated, or others could design around our patents and the patents may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage. further, the laws of certain foreign countries in which we do business or contemplate doing business in the future do not recognize intellectual property rights or protect them to the same extent as united states law. as a result, these factors could weaken our competitive advantage with respect to our products, services, and brands in foreign jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our financial performance. moreover, while we do not believe that any of our products infringe on the valid intellectual property rights of third parties, others may assert intellectual property rights that cover some of our technology, brands, products, or services. any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly license agreements. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain products. the ability of suppliers to deliver parts, components and manufacturing equipment to our manufacturing facilities, including our ability to manufacture without disruption, could affect our global business performance. we use a wide range of materials and components in the global production of our products and use numerous suppliers to provide materials and components. because we generally do not have guaranteed supply arrangements with our suppliers and some key parts may be available only from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers, we are subject to supply and pricing risks. in addition, certain proprietary component parts used in some of our products are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. we would be unable to obtain these proprietary component parts for an indeterminate period of time if these single-source suppliers were to cease or interrupt production or otherwise fail to supply these components to us, which could adversely affect our product sales and operating results. our operations and operations at suppliers' facilities are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, work stoppages, intellectual property claims against suppliers, hazards such as fire, earthquake, flooding, or other natural disasters. such disruption could interrupt our ability to manufacture certain products. any significant disruption could negatively impact our revenue and earnings performance. significant differences between actual results and estimates of the amount of future funding for our pension plans and postretirement health care benefit programs, and significant changes in funding assumptions or significant increases in funding obligations due to regulatory changes, could adversely affect our financial results. we have both funded and unfunded defined benefit pension plans that cover certain employees in north america, europe, asia and brazil. we also have unfunded postretirement health care benefit plans for eligible retired employees. the employee retirement income security act of 1974 (erisa) and the internal revenue code, as amended, govern the funding obligations for our u.s. pension plans, which are our principal pension plans. our u.s. defined benefit plans were frozen as of december 31, 2006 for substantially all participants. for 2007 and beyond, whirlpool employees may participate in an enhanced defined contribution plan. 9 as of december 31, 2012 , our projected benefit obligations under our pension plans and postretirement health care benefit programs exceeded the fair value of plan assets by an aggregate of approximately $2.1 billion , ( $1.6 billion of which was attributable to pension plans and $0.5 billion of which was attributable to postretirement health care benefits). estimates for the amount and timing of the future funding obligations of these pension plans and postretirement health care benefit plans are based on various assumptions. these assumptions include discount rates, expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, and health care cost trend rates. these assumptions are subject to change based on changes in interest rates on high quality bonds, stock and bond market returns, and health care cost trend rates. significant differences in results or significant changes in assumptions may materially affect our postretirement obligations and related future contributions and expenses. we may be subject to information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches in data security, which may materially adversely affect our operations, financial condition and operating results. we depend on information technology as an enabler to improve the effectiveness of our operations and to interface with our customers, as well as to maintain financial accuracy and efficiency. information technology system failures, including suppliers' or vendors' system failures, could disrupt our operations by causing transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, delays or cancellation of customer orders, the loss of customers, impediments to the manufacture or shipment of products, other business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach. in addition, we have outsourced certain information technology support services and administrative functions, such as payroll processing and benefit plan administration, to third-party service providers and may outsource other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. if the service providers to which we outsource these functions do not perform effectively, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings and may have to incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers. depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach, or harm employee morale. our information systems could also be penetrated by outside parties intent on extracting information, corrupting information or disrupting business processes. such unauthorized access could disrupt our business and could result in the loss of assets. a deterioration in labor relations could adversely impact our global business. as of december 31, 2012 , we had approximately 68,000 employees. of those employees, various labor unions with separate collective bargaining agreements represent approximately 50% . our current collective bargaining agreements generally have three year terms. due to the large number of collective bargaining agreements, we are periodically in negotiations with certain of the unions representing our employees. we may be subject to employee work stoppages that, if such events were to occur, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. further, we cannot be assured that we will be able to renew collective bargaining agreements on the same or similar terms, or at all, which may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. our ability to attract, develop and retain executives and other qualified employees is crucial to our results of operations and future growth. we depend upon the continued services and performance of our key executives, senior management and skilled personnel, particularly our professionals with experience in our business and operations and the home appliance industry. we cannot be sure that any of these individuals will continue to be employed by us. a lengthy period of time is required to hire and develop replacement personnel when skilled personnel depart whirlpool. an inability to hire, develop, engage and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees could materially hinder our business by, for example, delaying our ability to bring new products to market or impairing the success of our operations. changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. the conduct of our businesses, and the production, distribution, sale, advertising, safety, transportation and use of many of our products, are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the united states, as well as to foreign laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies in markets in which we operate. these laws and regulations may change, sometimes dramatically, as a result of political, economic or social events. changes in laws, regulations or governmental policy and the related interpretations may alter the environment in which we do business and, therefore, may impact our results or increase our costs or liabilities. in addition, we incur and will continue to incur capital and other expenditures to comply with various laws and regulations, especially relating to, protection of the environment, human health and safety and energy efficiency. these types of costs could adversely affect our financial performance. additionally, we could be subjected to future liabilities, fines or penalties or the suspension of product production for failing to comply with various laws and regulations, including environmental regulations. cleanup obligations that might arise at any of our manufacturing sites or the imposition of more stringent environmental laws in the future could adversely affect us. 10 new regulations related to conflict minerals may force us to incur additional expenses and may make our supply chain more complex. in august 2012 the sec adopted annual disclosure and reporting requirements for those companies who use certain minerals known as conflict minerals mined from the democratic republic of congo and adjoining countries in their products. these new requirements will require due diligence efforts in 2013, with initial disclosure requirements beginning in 2014. there will be significant costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including for diligence to determine the sources of conflict minerals used in our products and other potential changes to products, processes or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. foreign currency fluctuations may affect our financial performance. we generate a significant portion of our revenue and incur a significant portion of our expenses in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. changes in the exchange rates of functional currencies of those operations affect the u.s. dollar value of our revenue and earnings from our foreign operations. we use currency forwards and options to manage our foreign currency transaction exposures. we cannot completely eliminate our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations, which may adversely affect our financial performance. in addition, because our consolidated financial results are reported in dollars, if we generate sales or earnings in other currencies, the translation of those results into dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those sales or earnings. finally, the amount of legal contingencies related to foreign operations may fluctuate significantly based upon changes in the exchange rates and usually cannot be managed with currency forwards, options or other arrangements. such fluctuations in exchange rates can significantly increase or decrease the amount of any legal contingency related to our foreign operations and make it difficult to assess and manage the potential exposure. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 13 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. see market risk in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in the financial supplement to this report.risk factors 6 risk factors . this report contains statements referring to whirlpool that are not historical facts and are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. these statements, which are intended to take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995, are based on current projections about operations, industry conditions, financial condition and liquidity. words that identify forward-looking statements include words such as may, could, will, should, possible, plan, predict, forecast, potential, anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, believe, may impact, on track, and words and terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance, a merger, or our businesses. in addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections, or other characterizations of future events or circumstances, including any underlying assumptions, are forward-looking statements. those statements are not guarantees and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict. therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from these forward-looking statements. these risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following: risks relating to our business we face intense competition in the major home appliance industry and failure to successfully compete may negatively affect our business and financial performance. each of our operating segments operates in a highly competitive business environment and faces intense competition from a growing number of competitors, many of which have strong consumer brand equity. several of these competitors, such as bosch siemens, electrolux, general electric, haier, lg, panasonic and samsung are large, well-established companies, many ranking among the global fortune 150, and have demonstrated a commitment to success in the global market. moreover, our customer base includes large, sophisticated trade customers who have many choices and demand competitive products, services and prices. competition in the global appliance market is based on a number of factors including selling price, product features and design, performance, innovation, reputation, energy efficiency, quality, cost, distribution, and financial incentives, such as cooperative advertising, co-marketing funds, sales person incentives, volume rebates and terms. many of our competitors are increasingly expanding beyond their existing manufacturing footprints. our competitors, especially global competitors with low-cost sources of supply and/or highly protected home markets outside, have aggressively priced their products and/or introduced new products to increase market share and expand into new geographies. if we are unable to successfully compete in this highly competitive environment, our business and financial performance could be negatively affected. the loss of or substantial decline in sales to any of our key trade customers, which include lowe's, sears, home depot, hhgregg, best buy, gpa - grupo p o de a car, ikea, alno, suning, major buying groups, and builders, could adversely affect our financial performance. we sell to a sophisticated customer base of large trade customers that have significant leverage as buyers over their suppliers. most of our products are not sold through long-term contracts, which facilitates the trade customers' ability to change volume among suppliers. as the trade customers continue to become larger, they may seek to use their position to improve their profitability by various means, including improved efficiency, lower pricing, and increased promotional programs. if we are unable to meet their demand requirements, our volume growth and financial results could be negatively affected. the loss of, or substantial decline in volume of, sales to lowe's, sears, home depot, hhgregg, best buy, gpa - grupo p o de a car, ikea, alno, suning, major buying groups or builders, or any other trade customers to which we sell a significant amount of products, could adversely affect our financial performance. additionally, the loss of market share or financial difficulties, including bankruptcy and financial restructuring, by these trade customers could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. we face risks associated with our acquisitions and other investments . from time to time, we make strategic acquisitions and participate in joint ventures. these transactions can involve significant challenges and risks, including that the transaction does not advance our business strategy or fails to produce a satisfactory return on our investment. we may encounter difficulties in integrating acquisitions with our operations, and in managing strategic investments. furthermore, we may not realize the degree, or timing, of benefits we anticipate when we first enter into a transaction. while our evaluation of any potential acquisition includes business, legal and financial due diligence with the goal of identifying and evaluating the material risks involved, we may be unsuccessful in ascertaining or evaluating all such risks. our growth plans include efforts to increase revenue from emerging markets, including through acquisitions. local business practices in these markets may not comply with u.s. laws, local laws or other laws applicable to us. if our compliance policies, including the requirement to comply with all laws, are not followed, such non-compliant practices may result in increased liability risks. for example, our anticipated acquisition of a 51 percent equity stake in hefei rongshida sanyo electric co., ltd ("hefei sanyo"), would expand our international operations and thus increase our exposure to certain risks associated with operating internationally. see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the hefei sanyo acquisition. 6 changes in economic conditions could adversely affect demand for our products. a number of economic factors, including, but not limited to, gross domestic product, availability of consumer credit, interest rates, consumer sentiment and debt levels, retail trends, housing starts, sales of existing homes, the level of mortgage refinancing and defaults, fiscal and credit market uncertainty, and foreign currency exchange rates, generally affect demand for our products. higher unemployment rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, higher deficit spending and debt levels, and higher tax rates adversely affect demand. a decline in economic activity and conditions in the united states, latin america, europe and the other markets in which we operate have had an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in recent years, and future declines and adverse conditions could have a similar adverse effect. product liability or product recall costs could adversely affect our business and financial performance. we are subject to the risk of exposure to product liability and product recall claims if any of our products are alleged to have resulted in injury to persons or damage to property. in the event that any of our products prove to be defective, we may need to recall and/or redesign such products. in addition, any claim or product recall that results in significant adverse publicity, particularly if those claims or recalls cause customers to question the safety or reliability of our products, may negatively affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. we do maintain product liability insurance, but this insurance may not be adequate to cover losses related to product liability claims brought against us. we may also be involved in certain class action and other litigation, for which no insurance is available. product liability insurance could become more expensive and difficult to maintain and may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. in addition, we do not maintain any product recall insurance. therefore any product recall we are required to initiate could have a significant impact on our operating results and/or cash flows. we regularly engage in investigations of potential quality and safety issues as part of our ongoing effort to deliver quality products to our customers. we are currently investigating a limited number of potential quality and safety issues, and as necessary, we undertake to effect repair or replacement of appliances. actual costs of these issues and any future issues depend upon several factors, including the number of consumers who respond to a particular recall, repair and administrative costs, whether the cost of any corrective action is borne initially by whirlpool or the supplier, and, if initially borne by whirlpool, whether we will be successful in recovering our costs from the supplier. the actual costs incurred as a result of these issues and any future issues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we face inventory and other asset risk. we write-down product and component inventories that have become obsolete or do not meet anticipated demand or net realizable value. we also review our long-lived and intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changed circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. if we determine that impairment has occurred, we record a write-down to adjust carrying value to fair value. although we believe our inventory and other asset related provisions are currently adequate, no assurance can be given that, given the unpredictable pace of product obsolescence and business conditions with trade customers and in general, we will not incur additional inventory or asset related charges. such charges could materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. risks associated with our international operations may decrease our revenues and increase our costs. for the year ended december 31, 2013 , we derived approximately 46% of our net sales from outside of north america (which includes canada and mexico), including 26% in latin america, 16% in emea and 4% in asia. we expect that international sales will continue to account for a significant percentage of our net sales in the foreseeable future. accordingly, we face numerous risks associated with conducting international operations, any of which could negatively affect our financial performance. these risks include the following: changes in foreign country regulatory requirements; various import/export restrictions and the availability of required import/export licenses; imposition of foreign tariffs and other trade barriers; political, legal, and economic instability and uncertainty; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; changes in foreign country tax rules, regulations and other requirements, such as changes in tax rates and statutory and judicial interpretations of tax laws; inflation; managing widespread operations and enforcing internal policies and procedures such as compliance with u.s. and foreign anti-bribery and anti-corruption regulations, such as the foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ), and antitrust laws; work stoppages and labor relations; disruptions in the shipping of imported and exported products; government price controls; extended payment terms and the inability to collect accounts receivable; and limitations on the repatriation of earnings and cash. 7 as a u.s. corporation, we are subject to the fcpa, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage to foreign companies that are not subject to similar regulations. additionally, any determination that we have violated the fcpa could have a material adverse effect on us. terrorist attacks, armed conflicts, labor disputes, natural disasters, governmental actions and epidemics could affect our domestic and international sales, disrupt our supply chain, and impair our ability to produce and deliver our products. such events could directly impact our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers, both in the united states and elsewhere. we are exposed to risks associated with the uncertain global economy. uncertain economic conditions within our regions and slow recovery in the united states, europe, and asia, along with national debt and fiscal concerns in various regions and government austerity measures, are posing challenges to the industry in which whirlpool operates. the markets for our products depend largely on consumer spending and the availability of financing. economic uncertainty and related factors exacerbate negative trends in business and consumer spending and may cause certain customers to push out, cancel, or refrain from placing orders for our products. uncertain market conditions, difficulties in obtaining capital, or reduced profitability may also cause some customers to scale back operations, exit markets, merge with other retailers, or file for bankruptcy protection and potentially cease operations, which can also result in lower sales and/or additional inventory. these conditions may similarly affect key suppliers, which could impair their ability to deliver parts and result in delays for our products or added costs. in addition, these conditions may lead to strategic alliances by, or consolidation of, other appliance manufacturers, which could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. uncertainty about future economic and industry conditions also makes it more challenging for us to forecast our operating results, make business decisions, and identify and prioritize the risks that may affect our businesses, sources and uses of cash, financial condition and results of operations. we may be required to implement additional cost reduction efforts, including restructuring activities, which may adversely affect our ability to capitalize on opportunities in a market recovery. in addition, our operations are subject to general credit, liquidity, foreign exchange, market and interest rate risks. our ability to invest in our businesses, fund strategic acquisitions and refinance maturing debt obligations depends in part on access to the capital markets. if we do not timely and appropriately adapt to changes resulting from the uncertain macroeconomic environment and industry conditions, or to difficulties in the financial markets, or if we are unable to continue to access the capital markets, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. an inability to effectively execute and manage our business objectives could adversely affect our financial performance. the highly competitive nature of our industry requires that we effectively execute and manage our business including our global operating platform initiative. our global operating platform initiative aims to reduce costs, expand margins, drive productivity and quality improvements, accelerate our rate of innovation, and enable us to receive an acceptable return on our investments. our inability to effectively control costs and drive productivity improvements could affect our profits. in addition, our inability to provide high-quality, innovative products could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our sales, which it could negatively affect our revenues and overall financial performance. additionally, our success is dependent on anticipating and appropriately reacting to changes in customer preferences and on successful new product and process development and product relaunches in response to such changes. our future results and our ability to maintain or improve our competitive position will depend on our capacity to gauge the direction of our key markets and upon our ability to successfully and timely identify, develop, manufacture, market, and sell new or improved products in these changing markets. failure to maintain our reputation and brand image could negatively impact our business. our brands have worldwide recognition, and our success depends on our ability to maintain and enhance our brand image and reputation. maintaining, promoting and growing our brands depends on our design and marketing efforts, including advertising and consumer campaigns, as well as product innovation. we could be adversely impacted if we fail to achieve any of these objectives or if, whether or not justified, the reputation or image of any of our brands is tarnished or receives negative publicity. in addition, adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us could damage our reputation and brand image, undermine our customers' confidence in us and reduce long-term demand for our products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. in addition, our success in maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, including our increasing reliance on social media and online dissemination of advertising campaigns. negative posts or comments about us on social networking and other websites that spread rapidly through such forums could seriously damage our reputation and brand image. if we do not maintain, extend and expand our brand image, then our product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 8 fluctuations and volatility in the cost of raw materials and purchased components could adversely affect our operating results. the primary materials used to produce and manufacture our products are steel, plastic resins, and base metals, such as aluminum, copper, zinc, and nickel. on a global and regional basis, the sources and prices of those materials and components are susceptible to significant price fluctuations due to supply/demand trends, transportation costs, government regulations and tariffs, changes in currency exchange rates, price controls, the economic climate, and other unforeseen circumstances. these inflationary costs are expected to have a material impact in 2014, largely driven by increases in the cost of plastic resins and steel, as well as component parts impacted by these commodity fluctuations. continued significant increases in these and other costs in the future could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. unfavorable results of legal and tax proceedings could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition and performance. we are subject to a variety of litigation and legal compliance risks, including litigation concerning products, intellectual property rights, income and non-income taxes, environmental matters, corporate matters, commercial matters and compliance with competition laws and distribution, marketing and trade practices. for example, we are currently disputing certain income and non-income tax related assessments issued by the brazilian authorities relating to befiex, cfc tax and to ipi tax credits (see note 6 and note 11 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on these matters). unfavorable outcomes regarding these assessments could materially adversely affect our financial position, liquidity, or results of operations in any particular reporting period. results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty and for some matters no insurance is likely available. regardless of merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant diversion of management attention and expense. we estimate loss contingencies and establish accruals as required by generally accepted accounting principles, based on our assessment of contingencies where liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable, in light of the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time. subsequent developments in legal proceedings, volatility in foreign currency exchange rates and other factors may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded and could result in an adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which a liability would be recognized or cash flows for the period in which amounts would be paid. actual results may significantly vary from our reserves. we are subject to, and could be further subject to, governmental investigations or actions by other third parties. we are subject to various federal, foreign and state laws, including antitrust laws, violations of which can involve civil or criminal sanctions. government regulators in various jurisdictions have investigated alleged pricing practices in the global compressor industry, including our embraco compressor business headquartered in brazil. in addition, we have been named as a defendant in related lawsuits in various jurisdictions, which seek damages in connection with the pricing of compressors, and additional lawsuits may be filed. the impact of these and other investigations and lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, services, and brands. we consider our intellectual property rights, including patents, trademarks, trade secrets, and licensing agreements, to be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and third party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. our failure to obtain or adequately protect our trademarks, products, new features of our products, or our processes may diminish our competitiveness. we have applied for patent protection in the united states and other jurisdictions with respect to certain innovations and new products, product features, and processes. we cannot be assured that the u.s. patent and trademark office or any other jurisdiction will approve any of our patent applications. additionally, the patents we own could be challenged, invalidated, or others could design around our patents and the patents may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage. further, the laws of certain foreign countries in which we do business, or contemplate doing business in the future, do not recognize intellectual property rights or protect them to the same extent as united states law. as a result, these factors could weaken our competitive advantage with respect to our products, services, and brands in foreign jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our financial performance. moreover, while we do not believe that any of our products infringe on the valid intellectual property rights of third parties, others may assert intellectual property rights that cover some of our technology, brands, products, or services. any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly license agreements. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain products. 9 the ability of suppliers to deliver parts, components and manufacturing equipment to our manufacturing facilities, and our ability to manufacture without disruption, could affect our global business performance. we use a wide range of materials and components in the global production of our products and use numerous suppliers to provide materials and components. because we generally do not have guaranteed supply arrangements with our suppliers and some key parts may be available only from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers, we are subject to supply and pricing risk. in addition, certain proprietary component parts used in some of our products are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. we would be unable to obtain these proprietary component parts for an indeterminate period of time if these single-source suppliers were to cease or interrupt production or otherwise fail to supply these components to us, which could adversely affect our product sales and operating results. our operations and operations at suppliers' facilities are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, work stoppages, intellectual property claims against suppliers, information technology failures, and hazards such as fire, earthquake, flooding, or other natural disasters. such disruption could interrupt our ability to manufacture certain products. any significant disruption could negatively impact our revenue and earnings performance. in august 2012, the sec adopted annual disclosure and reporting requirements for those companies who use certain minerals known as conflict minerals mined from the democratic republic of congo and adjoining countries in their products. these disclosure and reporting requirements became effective for calendar year 2013. affected companies must make disclosures for the first time by may 31, 2014, and annually thereafter. there have been and will continue to be significant costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including for diligence to determine the sources of conflict minerals used in our products and other potential changes to products, processes or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. our disclosure will be predicated upon the timely receipt of accurate information from suppliers, who may be unwilling or unable to provide us with the relevant information. as a result, these new requirements could adversely affect our costs, the availability of minerals used in our products and our relationships with customers and suppliers. significant differences between actual results and estimates of the amount of future funding for our pension plans and postretirement health care benefit programs, and significant changes in funding assumptions or significant increases in funding obligations due to regulatory changes, could adversely affect our financial results. we have both funded and unfunded defined benefit pension plans that cover certain employees in north america, europe, asia and brazil. we also have unfunded postretirement health care benefit plans for eligible retired employees. the employee retirement income security act of 1974 (erisa) and the internal revenue code, as amended, govern the funding obligations for our u.s. pension plans, which are our principal pension plans. our u.s. defined benefit plans were frozen as of december 31, 2006 for substantially all participants. for 2007 and beyond, whirlpool employees may participate in an enhanced defined contribution plan. as of december 31, 2013 , our projected benefit obligations under our pension plans and postretirement health and welfare benefit programs exceeded the fair value of plan assets by an aggregate of approximately $1.5 billion , ( $0.9 billion of which was attributable to pension plans and $0.6 billion of which was attributable to postretirement health care benefits). estimates for the amount and timing of the future funding obligations of these pension plans and postretirement health and welfare benefit plans are based on various assumptions. these assumptions include discount rates, expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, and health care cost trend rates. these assumptions are subject to change based on changes in interest rates on high quality bonds, stock and bond market returns, and health care cost trend rates, all of which are largely outside our control. significant differences in results or significant changes in assumptions may materially affect our postretirement obligations and related future contributions and expenses. we may be subject to information technology system failures, network disruptions, cybersecurity attacks and breaches in data security, which may materially adversely affect our operations, financial condition and operating results. we depend on information technology as an enabler to improve the effectiveness of our operations and to interface with our customers, as well as to maintain financial accuracy and efficiency. information technology system failures, including suppliers' or vendors' system failures, could disrupt our operations by causing transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, delays or cancellation of customer orders, the loss of customers, impediments to the manufacture or shipment of products, other business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach. in addition, we have outsourced certain information technology support services and administrative functions, such as payroll processing and benefit plan administration, to third-party service providers and may outsource other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. if the service providers to which we outsource these functions do not perform effectively, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings and may have to incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers. depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach, or harm employee morale. 10 our information systems, or those of our third-party service providers, could also be penetrated by outside parties intent on extracting information, corrupting information or disrupting business processes. such unauthorized access could disrupt our business and could result in the loss of assets. cybersecurity attacks are becoming more sophisticated and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information, and corruption of data. these events could impact our customers and reputation and lead to financial losses from remediation actions, loss of business or potential liability or an increase in expense, all of which may have a material adverse effect on our business. a deterioration in labor relations could adversely impact our global business. as of december 31, 2013 , we had approximately 69,000 employees. we are subject to separate collective bargaining agreements with certain labor unions, which generally have two to three year terms. we are periodically in negotiations with certain of the unions representing our employees and may be subject to employee work stoppages that, if such events were to occur, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. further, we cannot be assured that we will be able to renew collective bargaining agreements on the same or similar terms, or at all, which may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. our ability to attract, develop and retain executives and other qualified employees is crucial to our results of operations and future growth. we depend upon the continued services and performance of our key executives, senior management and skilled personnel, particularly our professionals with experience in our business and operations and the home appliance industry. we cannot be sure that any of these individuals will continue to be employed by us. a lengthy period of time is required to hire and develop replacement personnel when skilled personnel depart whirlpool. an inability to hire, develop, engage and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees could materially hinder our business by, for example, delaying our ability to bring new products to market or impairing the success of our operations. changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. the conduct of our businesses, and the production, distribution, sale, advertising, safety, transportation and use of many of our products, are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the united states, as well as to foreign laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies in markets in which we operate. these laws and regulations may change, sometimes dramatically, as a result of political, economic or social events. changes in laws, regulations or governmental policy and the related interpretations may alter the environment in which we do business and, therefore, may impact our results or increase our costs or liabilities. in addition, we incur and will continue to incur capital and other expenditures to comply with various laws and regulations, especially relating to, protection of the environment, human health and safety and energy efficiency. these types of costs could adversely affect our financial performance. additionally, we could be subjected to future liabilities, fines or penalties or the suspension of product production for failing to comply with various laws and regulations, including environmental regulations. cleanup obligations that might arise at any of our manufacturing sites or the imposition of more stringent environmental laws in the future could adversely affect us. foreign currency fluctuations may affect our financial performance. we generate a significant portion of our revenue and incur a significant portion of our expenses in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. changes in the exchange rates of functional currencies of those operations affect the u.s. dollar value of our revenue and earnings from our foreign operations. we use currency forwards and options to manage our foreign currency transaction exposures. we cannot completely eliminate our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations, which may adversely affect our financial performance. in addition, because our consolidated financial results are reported in u.s. dollars, if we generate sales or earnings in other currencies, the translation of those results into u.s. dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those sales or earnings. finally, the amount of legal contingencies related to foreign operations may fluctuate significantly based upon changes in the exchange rates and usually cannot be managed with currency forwards, options or other arrangements. such fluctuations in exchange rates can significantly increase or decrease the amount of any legal contingency related to our foreign operations and make it difficult to assess and manage the potential exposure. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 31 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. market risk we have in place an enterprise risk management process that involves systematic risk identification and mitigation covering the categories of enterprise, strategic, financial, operation and compliance and reporting risk. the enterprise risk management process receives board of directors and management oversight, drives risk mitigation decision-making and is fully integrated into our internal audit planning and execution cycle. we are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, domestic and foreign interest rates, and commodity prices, which can affect our operating results and overall financial condition. we manage exposure to these risks through our operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivatives. derivatives are viewed as risk management tools and are not used for speculation or for trading purposes. derivatives are generally contracted with a diversified group of investment grade counterparties to reduce exposure to nonperformance on such instruments. we use foreign currency forward contracts, currency options and currency swaps to hedge the price risk associated with firmly committed and forecasted cross-border payments and receipts related to ongoing business and operational financing activities. foreign currency contracts are sensitive to chang es in foreign currency exchange rates. at december 31, 2013, a 10% favorable or unfavorable exchange rate movement in each currency in our portfolio of foreign currency contracts would have resulted in an incremental unrealized gain or loss of approximately $120 million. consistent with the use of these contracts to neutralize the effect of exchange rate fluctuations, such unrealized losses or gains would be offset by corresponding gains or losses, respectively, in the re-measurement of the underlying exposures. we enter into commodity swap contracts to hedge the price risk associated with firmly committed and forecasted commodities purchases, the prices o f which are not fixed directly through supply contracts. as of december 31, 2013, a 10% favorable or unfavorable shift in commodity prices would have resulted in an incremental gain or loss of approximately $35 million, respectively, related to these contracts. 31risk factors 7 for certain other financial information concerning our business segments and foreign and domestic operations, see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. for information on our global restructuring plans, and the impact of these plans on our operating segments, see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. hefei sanyo acquisition on august 12, 2013 , whirlpool's wholly-owned subsidiary, whirlpool (china) investment co., ltd., ( whirlpool china ), reached agreements to acquire a 51% equity stake in a leading home appliances manufacturer, hefei sanyo , a joint stock company whose shares are listed and traded on the shanghai stock exchange. this transaction was completed on october 24, 2014 . hefei sanyo has been renamed to "whirlpool china co., ltd." with this acquisition, whirlpool adds an established and broad distribution network within the chinese appliance market and reinforces our commitment to growth in this region. whirlpool will gain manufacturing scale and a competitive cost structure in the city of hefei and we believe we will realize strong synergies through our extensive technical, marketing and product development in combination with hefei sanyo 's sales execution and operational strengths. the aggregate purchase price was rmb 3.4 billion (approximately $551 million at the dates of purchase). the company funded the total consideration for the shares with cash on hand. the cash paid for the private placement portion of the transaction is considered restricted cash, which will be used to fund capital and technical resources to enhance hefei sanyo's research and development and working capital. further discussion of this transaction can be found in note 2 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. indesit acquisition on december 3, 2014 , whirlpool purchased all remaining shares of indesit (aside from a minority interest that was purchased in the third quarter of 2014) and indesit delisted from the electronic stock market organized and managed by borsa italiana s.p.a. total consideration paid for indesit was $1.4 billion in aggregate net of cash acquired. the company funded the aggregate purchase price for the shares constituting a majority interest that we purchased in october 2014 through borrowings under our credit facility, and repaid a portion of such borrowings through the issuance of an aggregate principal amount of $650 million in senior notes on november 4, 2014. we funded the aggregate purchase price for the tender offer and remaining shares through borrowings under our credit facility and through borrowings under our commercial paper programs, and intend to repay such borrowings in the future through public debt financing. this transaction builds whirlpool's market position within europe, and we believe will enable sustainable growth given the complementary market positions, product offerings and distribution channels of whirlpool and indesit throughout europe. further discussion of this transaction can be found in note 2 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 5 executive officers of the registrant the following table sets forth the names and ages of our executive officers on february 16, 2015, the positions and offices they held on that date, and the year they first became executive officers: name office first became an executive officer age jeff m. fettig director, chairman of the board and chief executive officer 1994 57 michael a. todman director and vice chairman 2001 57 marc r. bitzer vice chairman 2006 50 esther berrozpe galindo executive vice president and president, whirlpool emea 2013 45 jo o c. brega executive vice president and president, whirlpool latin america 2012 51 joseph t. liotine executive vice president and president, whirlpool north america 2014 42 david t. szczupak executive vice president, global product organization 2008 59 larry m. venturelli executive vice president and chief financial officer 2012 54 the executive officers named above were elected by our board of directors to serve in the office indicated until the first meeting of the board of directors following the annual meeting of stockholders in 2015 and until a successor is chosen and qualified or until the executive officer's earlier resignation or removal. each of our executive officers has held the position set forth in the table above or has served whirlpool in various executive or administrative capacities for at least the past five years. available information financial results and investor information (including whirlpool's form 10-k, 10-q, and 8-k reports) are accessible at whirlpool's website: investors.whirlpoolcorp.com/sec.cfm . copies of our form 10-k, 10-q, and 8-k reports and amendments, if any, are available free of charge through our website on the same day they are filed with, or furnished to, the securities and exchange commission. 6 item 1a. risk factors this report contains statements referring to whirlpool that are not historical facts and are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. these statements, which are intended to take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995, are based on current projections about operations, industry conditions, financial condition and liquidity. words that identify forward-looking statements include words such as may, could, will, should, possible, plan, predict, forecast, potential, anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, believe, may impact, on track, and words and terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance, a merger, or our businesses. in addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections, or other characterizations of future events or circumstances, including any underlying assumptions, are forward-looking statements. those statements are not guarantees and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict. therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from these forward-looking statements. these risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following: risks relating to our business we face intense competition in the major home appliance industry and failure to successfully compete may negatively affect our business and financial performance. each of our operating segments operates in a highly competitive business environment and faces intense competition from a growing number of competitors, many of which have strong consumer brand equity. several of these competitors, such as bosch siemens, electrolux, general electric, haier, lg, panasonic and samsung are large, well-established companies, many ranking among the global fortune 150, and have demonstrated a commitment to success in the global market. moreover, our customer base includes large, sophisticated trade customers who have many choices and demand competitive products, services and prices. competition in the global appliance market is based on a number of factors including selling price, product features and design, performance, innovation, reputation, energy efficiency, quality, cost, distribution, and financial incentives, such as cooperative advertising, co-marketing funds, sales person incentives, volume rebates and terms. many of our competitors are increasingly expanding beyond their existing manufacturing footprints. our competitors, especially global competitors with low-cost sources of supply and/or highly protected home markets outside, have aggressively priced their products and/or introduced new products to increase market share and expand into new geographies. if we are unable to successfully compete in this highly competitive environment, our business and financial performance could be negatively affected. we face risks associated with our acquisitions and other investments and risks associated with our increased presence in emerging markets. from time to time, we make strategic acquisitions and participate in joint ventures. we acquired indesit and a majority interest in hefei sanyo in the fourth quarter of 2014. these transactions, and other transactions that we have entered into or which we may enter into in the future, can involve significant challenges and risks, including that the transaction does not advance our business strategy or fails to produce a satisfactory return on our investment. we may encounter difficulties in integrating acquisitions with our operations, applying our internal control processes to these acquisitions, and in managing strategic investments. integrating acquisitions is often costly and may require significant attention from management. furthermore, we may not realize the degree, or timing, of benefits we anticipate when we first enter into a transaction. while our evaluation of any potential acquisition includes business, legal and financial due diligence with the goal of identifying and evaluating the material risks involved, our due diligence reviews may not identify all of the issues necessary to accurately estimate the cost and potential loss contingencies of a particular transaction, including potential exposure to regulatory sanctions resulting from an acquisition target's previous activities. our growth plans include efforts to increase revenue from emerging markets, including through acquisitions. local business practices in these countries may not comply with u.s. laws, local laws or other laws applicable to us. if our compliance policies, including the requirement to comply with all laws, are not followed, such non-compliant practices may result in increased liability risks. for example, we may incur unanticipated costs, expenses or other liabilities as a result of an acquisition target's violation of applicable laws, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) or similar worldwide anti-bribery laws in non-u.s. jurisdictions. we may incur unanticipated costs or expenses, including post-closing asset impairment charges, expenses associated with eliminating duplicate facilities, litigation, and other liabilities. in addition, our recent and future acquisitions may increase our exposure to other risks associated with operating internationally, including foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; political, legal and economic instability; inflation; changes in tax rates and tax laws; and work stoppages and labor relations. see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the hefei sanyo and indesit acquisitions. 7 the loss of, or substantial decline in, sales to any of our key trade customers, which include lowe's, sears, home depot, hhgregg, best buy, gpa - grupo p o de a car, ikea, alno, suning, major buying groups and builders, could adversely affect our financial performance. we sell to a sophisticated customer base of large trade customers that have significant leverage as buyers over their suppliers. most of our products are not sold through long-term contracts, which facilitates the trade customers' ability to change volume among suppliers. as the trade customers continue to become larger, they may seek to use their position to improve their profitability by various means, including improved efficiency, lower pricing, and increased promotional programs. if we are unable to meet their demand requirements, our volume growth and financial results could be negatively affected. the loss of, or substantial decline in volume of, sales to lowe's, sears, home depot, hhgregg, best buy, gpa - grupo p o de a car, ikea, alno, suning, major buying groups or builders, or any other trade customers to which we sell a significant amount of products, could adversely affect our financial performance. additionally, the loss of market share or financial difficulties, including bankruptcy and financial restructuring, by these trade customers could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. risks associated with our international operations may decrease our revenues and increase our costs. for the year ended december 31, 2014 , we derived approximately 47% of our net sales from outside of north america, including 23% in latin america, 20% in emea and 4% in asia. we expect that international sales will continue to account for a significant percentage of our net sales in the foreseeable future. accordingly, we face numerous risks associated with conducting international operations, any of which could negatively affect our financial performance. these risks include the following: political, legal, and economic instability and uncertainty; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; changes in foreign country tax rules, regulations and other requirements, such as changes in tax rates and statutory and judicial interpretations of tax laws; inflation; changes in foreign country regulatory requirements; various import/export restrictions and the availability of required import/export licenses; imposition of foreign tariffs and other trade barriers; managing widespread operations and enforcing internal policies and procedures such as compliance with u.s. and foreign anti-bribery and anti-corruption regulations, such as the foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ), and antitrust laws; work stoppages and labor relations; disruptions in the shipping of imported and exported products; government price controls; extended payment terms and the inability to collect accounts receivable; and limitations on the repatriation of earnings and cash. as a u.s. corporation, we are subject to the fcpa, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage to foreign companies that are not subject to similar regulations. additionally, any determination that we have violated the fcpa could have a material adverse effect on us. terrorist attacks, armed conflicts, labor disputes, natural disasters, governmental actions and epidemics could affect our domestic and international sales, disrupt our supply chain, and impair our ability to produce and deliver our products. such events could directly impact our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers, both in the united states and elsewhere. fluctuations and volatility in the cost of raw materials and purchased components could adversely affect our operating results. the primary materials used to produce and manufacture our products are steel, plastic resins, and base metals, such as aluminum, copper, zinc, and nickel. on a global and regional basis, the sources and prices of those materials and components containing those materials are susceptible to significant price fluctuations due to supply/demand trends, transportation costs, government regulations and tariffs, changes in currency exchange rates, price controls, the economic climate, and other unforeseen circumstances. significant increases in these and other costs in the future could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. 8 foreign currency fluctuations may affect our financial performance. we generate a significant portion of our revenue and incur a significant portion of our expenses in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. changes in the exchange rates of functional currencies of those operations affect the u.s. dollar value of our revenue and earnings from our foreign operations. we use currency forwards and options to manage our foreign currency transaction exposures. we cannot completely eliminate our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations, which may adversely affect our financial performance. in addition, because our consolidated financial results are reported in u.s. dollars, if we generate sales or earnings in other currencies, the translation of those results into u.s. dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those sales or earnings. finally, the amount of legal contingencies related to foreign operations may fluctuate significantly based upon changes in the exchange rates and usually cannot be managed with currency forwards, options or other arrangements. such fluctuations in exchange rates can significantly increase or decrease the amount of any legal contingency related to our foreign operations and make it difficult to assess and manage the potential exposure. unfavorable results of legal and tax proceedings could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition and performance. we are subject to a variety of litigation and legal compliance risks, including litigation concerning products, intellectual property rights, income and non-income taxes, environmental matters, corporate matters, commercial matters and compliance with competition laws and distribution, marketing and trade practices. for example, we are currently disputing certain income and non-income tax related assessments issued by the brazilian authorities relating to befiex, cfc tax and to ipi tax credits (see note 7 and note 12 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on these matters). unfavorable outcomes regarding these assessments could have a material adverse affect on our financial position, liquidity, or results of operations in any particular reporting period. results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty and for some matters no insurance is likely available. regardless of merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. we estimate loss contingencies and establish accruals as required by generally accepted accounting principles, based on our assessment of contingencies where liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable, in light of the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time. subsequent developments in legal proceedings, volatility in foreign currency exchange rates and other factors may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded and could result in an adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which a liability would be recognized or cash flows for the period in which amounts would be paid. actual results may significantly vary from our reserves. we are subject to, and could be further subject to, governmental investigations or actions by other third parties. we are subject to various federal, foreign and state laws, including antitrust laws, violations of which can involve civil or criminal sanctions. for example, we have been subject to governmental investigations related to pricing practices of our global compressor business (see note 7 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on these matters). responding to governmental investigations or other actions may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. the impact of these and other investigations and lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. the conduct of our businesses, and the production, distribution, sale, advertising, safety, transportation and use of many of our products, are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the united states, as well as to foreign laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies in markets in which we operate. these laws and regulations may change, sometimes dramatically, as a result of political, economic or social events. changes in laws, regulations or governmental policy and the related interpretations may alter the environment in which we do business and, therefore, may impact our results or increase our costs or liabilities. in addition, we incur and will continue to incur capital and other expenditures to comply with various laws and regulations, especially relating to protection of the environment, human health and safety and energy efficiency. these types of costs could adversely affect our financial performance. additionally, we could be subjected to future liabilities, fines or penalties or the suspension of product production for failing to comply with various laws and regulations, including environmental regulations. cleanup obligations that might arise at any of our manufacturing sites or the imposition of more stringent environmental laws in the future could adversely affect us. failure to maintain our reputation and brand image could negatively impact our business. our brands have worldwide recognition, and our success depends on our ability to maintain and enhance our brand image and reputation. maintaining, promoting and growing our brands depends on our design and marketing efforts, including advertising and consumer campaigns, as well as product innovation. we could be adversely impacted if we fail to achieve any of these objectives or if, whether or not justified, the reputation or image of any of our brands is tarnished or receives negative publicity. in addition, adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us could damage our reputation and brand image, undermine our customers' confidence in us and reduce long-term demand for our products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. 9 in addition, our success in maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, including our increasing reliance on social media and online dissemination of advertising campaigns. negative posts or comments about us on social networking and other websites that spread rapidly through such forums could seriously damage our reputation and brand image. if we do not maintain, extend and expand our brand image, then our product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. an inability to effectively execute and manage our business objectives could adversely affect our financial performance. the highly competitive nature of our industry requires that we effectively execute and manage our business including our global operating platform initiative. our global operating platform initiative aims to reduce costs, expand margins, drive productivity and quality improvements, accelerate our rate of innovation, and enable us to receive an acceptable return on our investments. our inability to effectively control costs and drive productivity improvements could affect our profits. in addition, our inability to provide high-quality, innovative products could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our sales, which could negatively affect our revenues and overall financial performance. additionally, our success is dependent on anticipating and appropriately reacting to changes in customer preferences and on successful new product and process development and product relaunches in response to such changes. our future results and our ability to maintain or improve our competitive position will depend on our capacity to gauge the direction of our key markets and upon our ability to successfully and timely identify, develop, manufacture, market, and sell new or improved products in these changing markets. we may be subject to information technology system failures, network disruptions, cybersecurity attacks and breaches in data security, which may materially adversely affect our operations, financial condition and operating results. we depend on information technology as an enabler to improve the effectiveness of our operations and to interface with our customers, as well as to maintain financial accuracy and efficiency. information technology system failures, including suppliers' or vendors' system failures, could disrupt our operations by causing transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, delays or cancellation of customer orders, the loss of customers, impediments to the manufacture or shipment of products, other business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach. in addition, we have outsourced certain information technology support services and administrative functions, such as payroll processing and benefit plan administration, to third-party service providers and may outsource other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. if the service providers to which we outsource these functions do not perform effectively, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings and may have to incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers. depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach, or harm employee morale. our information systems, or those of our third-party service providers, could also be penetrated by outside parties intent on extracting information, corrupting information or disrupting business processes. such unauthorized access could disrupt our business and could result in the loss of assets. cybersecurity attacks are becoming more sophisticated and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information, and corruption of data. these events could impact our customers and reputation and lead to financial losses from remediation actions, loss of business or potential liability or an increase in expense, all of which may have a material adverse effect on our business. product liability or product recall costs could adversely affect our business and financial performance. we are subject to the risk of exposure to product liability and product recall claims if any of our products are alleged to have resulted in injury to persons or damage to property. in the event that any of our products prove to be defective, we may need to recall and/or redesign such products. in addition, any claim or product recall that results in significant adverse publicity, particularly if those claims or recalls cause customers to question the safety or reliability of our products, may negatively affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. we do maintain product liability insurance, but this insurance may not be adequate to cover losses related to product liability claims brought against us. we may also be involved in certain class action and other litigation, for which no insurance is available. product liability insurance could become more expensive and difficult to maintain and may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. in addition, we do not maintain any product recall insurance. therefore any product recall we are required to initiate could have a significant impact on our operating results and/or cash flows. we regularly engage in investigations of potential quality and safety issues as part of our ongoing effort to deliver quality products to our customers. we are currently investigating a limited number of potential quality and safety issues, and as necessary, we undertake to effect repair or replacement of appliances. actual costs of these issues and any future issues depend upon several factors, including the number of consumers who respond to a particular recall, repair and administrative costs, whether the cost of any corrective action is borne initially by whirlpool or the supplier, and, if initially borne by whirlpool, whether we will be successful in recovering our costs from the supplier. the actual costs incurred as a result of these issues and any future issues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 10 we face inventory and other asset risk. we write-down product and component inventories that have become obsolete or do not meet anticipated demand or net realizable value. we also review our long-lived and intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changed circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. if we determine that impairment has occurred, we record a write-down to adjust carrying value to fair value. no assurance can be given that, given the unpredictable pace of product obsolescence and business conditions with trade customers and in general, we will not incur additional inventory or asset related charges. such charges could materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. changes in economic conditions could adversely affect demand for our products. a number of economic factors, including, but not limited to, gross domestic product, availability of consumer credit, interest rates, consumer sentiment and debt levels, retail trends, housing starts, sales of existing homes, the level of mortgage refinancing and defaults, fiscal and credit market uncertainty, and foreign currency exchange rates, generally affect demand for our products. higher unemployment rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, higher deficit spending and debt levels, and higher tax rates adversely affect demand. a decline in economic activity and conditions in the united states, latin america, europe and the other areas in which we operate have had an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in recent years, and future declines and adverse conditions could have a similar adverse effect. the ability of suppliers to deliver parts, components and manufacturing equipment to our manufacturing facilities, and our ability to manufacture without disruption, could affect our global business performance. we use a wide range of materials and components in the global production of our products and use numerous suppliers to provide materials and components. because we generally do not have guaranteed supply arrangements with our suppliers and some key parts may be available only from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers, we are subject to supply and pricing risk. in addition, certain proprietary component parts used in some of our products are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. we would be unable to obtain these proprietary component parts for an indeterminate period of time if these single-source suppliers were to cease or interrupt production or otherwise fail to supply these components to us, which could adversely affect our product sales and operating results. our operations and operations at suppliers' facilities are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, work stoppages, labor relations, intellectual property claims against suppliers, information technology failures, and hazards such as fire, earthquakes, flooding, or other natural disasters, insurance for any of which may not be available, affordable or adequate. such disruption could interrupt our ability to manufacture certain products. any significant disruption could negatively impact our revenue and earnings performance. we are exposed to risks associated with the uncertain global economy. uncertain economic conditions within our regions and slow recovery in europe and asia, along with national debt and fiscal concerns in various regions and government austerity measures, are posing challenges to the industry in which whirlpool operates. the demand for our products depends largely on consumer spending and the availability of financing. economic uncertainty and related factors exacerbate negative trends in business and consumer spending and may cause certain customers to push out, cancel, or refrain from placing orders for our products. uncertain market conditions, difficulties in obtaining capital, or reduced profitability may also cause some customers to scale back operations, exit markets, merge with other retailers, or file for bankruptcy protection and potentially cease operations, which can also result in lower sales and/or additional inventory. these conditions may similarly affect key suppliers, which could impair their ability to deliver parts and result in delays for our products or added costs. in addition, these conditions may lead to strategic alliances by, or consolidation of, other appliance manufacturers, which could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. uncertainty about future economic and industry conditions also makes it more challenging for us to forecast our operating results, make business decisions, and identify and prioritize the risks that may affect our businesses, sources and uses of cash, financial condition and results of operations. we may be required to implement additional cost reduction efforts, including restructuring activities, which may adversely affect our ability to capitalize on opportunities in a market recovery. in addition, our operations are subject to general credit, liquidity, foreign exchange, market and interest rate risks. our ability to invest in our businesses, fund strategic acquisitions and refinance maturing debt obligations depends in part on access to the capital markets. if we do not timely and appropriately adapt to changes resulting from the uncertain macroeconomic environment and industry conditions, or to difficulties in the financial markets, or if we are unable to continue to access the capital markets, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 11 our ability to attract, develop and retain executives and other qualified employees is crucial to our results of operations and future growth. we depend upon the continued services and performance of our key executives, senior management and skilled personnel, particularly our professionals with experience in our business and operations and the home appliance industry. we cannot be sure that any of these individuals will continue to be employed by us. a lengthy period of time is required to hire and develop replacement personnel when skilled personnel depart whirlpool. an inability to hire, develop, engage and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees could materially hinder our business by, for example, delaying our ability to bring new products to market or impairing the success of our operations. a deterioration in labor relations could adversely impact our global business. as of december 31, 2014 , we had approximately 100,000 employees. we are subject to separate collective bargaining agreements with certain labor unions, which generally have two to three year terms. we are periodically in negotiations with certain of the unions representing our employees and may be subject to employee work stoppages that, if such events were to occur, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. further, we cannot be assured that we will be able to renew collective bargaining agreements on the same or similar terms, or at all, which may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, services and brands. we consider our intellectual property rights, including patents, trademarks, trade secrets and licensing agreements, to be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and third party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. our failure to obtain or adequately protect our trademarks, products, new features of our products, or our processes may diminish our competitiveness. we have applied for patent protection in the united states and other jurisdictions with respect to certain innovations and new products, product features, and processes. we cannot be assured that the u.s. patent and trademark office or any other jurisdiction will approve any of our patent applications. additionally, the patents we own could be challenged, invalidated, or others could design around our patents and the patents may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage. further, the laws of certain foreign countries in which we do business, or contemplate doing business in the future, do not recognize intellectual property rights or protect them to the same extent as united states law. as a result, these factors could weaken our competitive advantage with respect to our products, services, and brands in foreign jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our financial performance. moreover, while we do not believe that any of our products infringe on enforceable intellectual property rights of third parties, others may assert intellectual property rights that cover some of our technology, brands, products, or services. any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly license agreements. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain products. significant differences between actual results and estimates of the amount of future funding for our pension plans and postretirement health care benefit programs, and significant changes in funding assumptions or significant increases in funding obligations due to regulatory changes, could adversely affect our financial results. we have both funded and unfunded defined benefit pension plans that cover certain employees in north america, europe, asia and brazil. we also have unfunded postretirement health care benefit plans for eligible retired employees. the employee retirement income security act of 1974 (erisa) and the internal revenue code, as amended, govern the funding obligations for our u.s. pension plans, which are our principal pension plans. our u.s. defined benefit plans were frozen as of december 31, 2006 for substantially all participants. for 2007 and beyond, whirlpool employees may participate in an enhanced defined contribution plan. as of december 31, 2014 , our projected benefit obligations under our pension plans and postretirement health and welfare benefit programs exceeded the fair value of plan assets by an aggregate of approximately $ 1.6 billion , ($ 1.1 billion of which was attributable to pension plans and $ 0.5 billion of which was attributable to postretirement health care benefits). estimates for the amount and timing of the future funding obligations of these pension plans and postretirement health and welfare benefit plans are based on various assumptions. these assumptions include discount rates, expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, life expectancies and health care cost trend rates. these assumptions are subject to change based on changes in interest rates on high quality bonds, stock and bond market returns, and health care cost trend rates, all of which are largely outside our control. significant differences in results or significant changes in assumptions may materially affect our postretirement obligations and related future contributions and expenses. 12 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 34 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk we have in place an enterprise risk management process that involves systematic risk identification and mitigation covering the categories of enterprise, strategic, financial, operation and compliance and reporting risk. the enterprise risk management process receives board of directors and management oversight, drives risk mitigation decision-making and is fully integrated into our internal audit planning and execution cycle. we are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, domestic and foreign interest rates, and commodity prices, which can affect our operating results and overall financial condition. we manage exposure to these risks through our operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivatives. derivatives are viewed as risk management tools and are not used for speculation or for trading purposes. derivatives are generally contracted with a diversified group of investment grade counterparties to reduce exposure to nonperformance on such instruments. we use foreign currency forward contracts, currency options and currency swaps to hedge the price risk associated with firmly committed and forecasted cross-border payments and receipts related to ongoing business and operational financing activities. foreign currency contracts are sensitive to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. at december 31, 2014 , a 10% favorable or unfavorable exchange rate movement in each currency in our portfolio of foreign currency contracts would have resulted in an incremental unrealized gain or loss of approximately $65-$80 million. consistent with the use of these contracts to neutralize the effect of exchange rate fluctuations, such unrealized losses or gains would be offset by corresponding gains or losses, respectively, in the re-measurement of the underlying exposures. we enter into commodity swap contracts to hedge the price risk associated with firmly committed and forecasted commodities purchases, the prices of which are not fixed directly through supply contracts. as of december 31, 2014 , a 10% favorable or unfavorable shift in commodity prices would have resulted in an incremental gain or loss of approximately $40 million, respectively, related to these contracts. 34risk factors 7 for certain other financial information concerning our business segments and foreign and domestic operations, see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. for information on our global restructuring plans, and the impact of these plans on our operating segments, see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. whirlpool china acquisition on october 24, 2014 , whirlpool's wholly-owned subsidiary, whirlpool (china) investment co., ltd., completed its acquisition of a 51% equity stake in hefei rongshida sanyo electric co., ltd. ("hefei sanyo"), a joint stock company whose shares are listed and traded on the shanghai stock exchange, which we have since renamed to whirlpool (china) co., ltd. (" whirlpool china "). the aggregate purchase price was rmb 3.4 billion (approximately $551 million at the dates of purchase of each step of the transaction). the company funded the total consideration for the shares with cash on hand. the cash paid for the private placement step is considered restricted cash, which is used to fund capital and technical resources to enhance whirlpool china's research and development and working capital. with this acquisition, whirlpool also gains manufacturing scale and a competitive cost structure. further discussion of this transaction can be found in note 2 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. indesit company s.p.a. acquisition on december 3, 2014 , whirlpool completed the final step in its acquisition of indesit company s.p.a. ("indesit") and on the same day indesit delisted from the electronic stock market organized and managed by borsa italiana s.p.a. total consideration paid for indesit was 1.1 billion (approximately $1.4 billion at the dates of purchase of each step in the transaction) in aggregate net of cash acquired. the company funded the aggregate purchase price for indesit through borrowings under its credit facility and commercial paper programs, and repaid a portion of such borrowings through the issuance of an aggregate principal amount of $650 million in senior notes on november 4, 2014 and an aggregate principal amount of 500 million (approximately $525 million as of the date of issuance) in senior notes on march 12, 2015 . additional information about our 2015 financing arrangements can be found in note 6 . this transaction builds whirlpool's market position within europe, and we believe will enable sustainable growth given the complementary market positions, product offerings and distribution channels of whirlpool and indesit throughout europe. further discussion of this transaction can be found in note 2 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 5 executive officers of the registrant the following table sets forth the names and ages of our executive officers on february 16, 2016 , the positions and offices they held on that date, and the year they first became executive officers: name office first became an executive officer age jeff m. fettig director, chairman of the board and chief executive officer 1994 58 marc r. bitzer director, president and chief operating officer 2006 51 esther berrozpe galindo executive vice president and president, whirlpool emea 2013 46 jo o c. brega executive vice president and president, whirlpool latin america 2012 52 joseph t. liotine executive vice president and president, whirlpool north america 2014 43 david t. szczupak executive vice president, global product organization 2008 60 larry m. venturelli executive vice president and chief financial officer 2012 55 the executive officers named above were elected by our board of directors to serve in the office indicated until the first meeting of the board of directors following the annual meeting of stockholders in 2016 and until a successor is chosen and qualified or until the executive officer's earlier resignation or removal. each of our executive officers has held the position set forth in the table above or has served whirlpool in various executive or administrative capacities for at least the past five years. available information financial results and investor information (including whirlpool's form 10-k, 10-q, and 8-k reports) are accessible at whirlpool's website: investors.whirlpoolcorp.com . copies of our form 10-k, 10-q, and 8-k reports and amendments, if any, are available free of charge through our website on the same day they are filed with, or furnished to, the securities and exchange commission. 6 item 1a. risk factors this report contains statements referring to whirlpool that are not historical facts and are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. these statements, which are intended to take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995, are based on current projections about operations, industry conditions, financial condition and liquidity. words that identify forward-looking statements include words such as may, could, will, should, possible, plan, predict, forecast, potential, anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, believe, may impact, on track, and words and terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance, a merger, or our businesses. in addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections, or other characterizations of future events or circumstances, including any underlying assumptions, are forward-looking statements. those statements are not guarantees and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict. therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from these forward-looking statements. these risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following: risks relating to our business we face intense competition in the major home appliance industry and failure to successfully compete may negatively affect our business and financial performance. each of our operating segments operates in a highly competitive business environment and faces intense competition from a growing number of competitors, many of which have strong consumer brand equity. several of these competitors, such as bosch siemens, electrolux, general electric, haier, lg, panasonic and samsung are large, well-established companies, many ranking among the global fortune 150, and have demonstrated a commitment to success in the global market. moreover, our customer base includes large, sophisticated trade customers who have many choices and demand competitive products, services and prices. competition in the global appliance market is based on a number of factors including selling price, product features and design, performance, innovation, reputation, energy efficiency, quality, cost, distribution, and financial incentives, such as cooperative advertising, co-marketing funds, sales person incentives, volume rebates and terms. many of our competitors are increasingly expanding beyond their existing manufacturing footprints. our competitors, especially global competitors with low-cost sources of supply and/or highly protected home markets outside the united states, have aggressively priced their products and/or introduced new products to increase market share and expand into new geographies. if we are unable to successfully compete in this highly competitive environment, our business and financial performance could be negatively affected. we face risks associated with our acquisitions and other investments and risks associated with our increased presence in emerging markets. from time to time, we make strategic acquisitions and participate in joint ventures. for example, we acquired indesit and a majority interest in hefei sanyo in the fourth quarter of 2014. these transactions, and other transactions that we have entered into or which we may enter into in the future, can involve significant challenges and risks, including that the transaction does not advance our business strategy or fails to produce a satisfactory return on our investment. we may encounter difficulties in integrating acquisitions with our operations, applying our internal control processes to these acquisitions, and in managing strategic investments. integrating acquisitions is often costly and may require significant attention from management. furthermore, we may not realize the degree, or timing, of benefits we anticipate when we first enter into a transaction. while our evaluation of any potential acquisition includes business, legal and financial due diligence with the goal of identifying and evaluating the material risks involved, our due diligence reviews may not identify all of the issues necessary to accurately estimate the cost and potential loss contingencies of a particular transaction, including potential exposure to regulatory sanctions resulting from an acquisition target's previous activities or costs associated with any quality issues with an acquisition target's legacy products. our growth plans include efforts to increase revenue from emerging markets, including through acquisitions. local business practices in these countries may not comply with u.s. laws, local laws or other laws applicable to us. if our compliance policies, including the requirement to comply with all laws, are not followed, such non-compliant practices may result in increased liability risks. for example, we may incur unanticipated costs, expenses or other liabilities as a result of an acquisition target's violation of applicable laws, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) or similar worldwide anti-bribery laws in non-u.s. jurisdictions. we may incur unanticipated costs or expenses, including post-closing asset impairment charges, expenses associated with eliminating duplicate facilities, litigation, and other liabilities. in addition, our recent and future acquisitions may increase our exposure to other risks associated with operating internationally, including foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; political, legal and economic instability; inflation; changes in tax rates and tax laws; and work stoppages and labor relations. see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the hefei sanyo and indesit acquisitions. 7 the loss of, or substantial decline in, sales to any of our key trade customers, which include lowe's, sears, home depot, hhgregg, best buy, gpa - grupo p o de a car, ikea, alno, suning, major buying groups, and builders could adversely affect our financial performance. we sell to a sophisticated customer base of large trade customers that have significant leverage as buyers over their suppliers. most of our products are not sold through long-term contracts, which facilitates the trade customers' ability to change volume among suppliers. as the trade customers continue to become larger, they may seek to use their position to improve their profitability by various means, including improved efficiency, lower pricing, and increased promotional programs. if we are unable to meet their demand requirements, our volume growth and financial results could be negatively affected. the loss of, or substantial decline in volume of, sales to lowe's, sears, home depot, hhgregg, best buy, gpa - grupo p o de a car, ikea, alno, suning, major buying groups, builders, or any other trade customers to which we sell a significant amount of products, could adversely affect our financial performance. additionally, the loss of market share or financial difficulties, including bankruptcy and financial restructuring, by these trade customers could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. risks associated with our international operations may decrease our revenues and increase our costs. for the year ended december 31, 2015 , we derived approximately 50% of our net sales from outside of north america, including 16% in latin america, 27% in emea and 7% in asia. we expect that international sales will continue to account for a significant percentage of our net sales in the foreseeable future. accordingly, we face numerous risks associated with conducting international operations, any of which could negatively affect our financial performance. these risks include the following: political, legal, and economic instability and uncertainty; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; changes in foreign tax rules, regulations and other requirements, such as changes in tax rates and statutory and judicial interpretations of tax laws; changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, including sanctions resulting from the current political situation in russia and ukraine; inflation; changes in foreign country regulatory requirements; various import/export restrictions and the availability of required import/export licenses; imposition of foreign tariffs and other trade barriers; managing widespread operations and enforcing internal policies and procedures such as compliance with u.s. and foreign anti-bribery and anti-corruption regulations, such as the fcpa, and antitrust laws; work stoppages and labor relations; disruptions in the shipping of imported and exported products; government price controls; extended payment terms and the inability to collect accounts receivable; and limitations on the repatriation or movement of earnings and cash. as a u.s. corporation, we are subject to the fcpa, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage to foreign companies that are not subject to similar regulations. additionally, any determination that we have violated the fcpa or other anti-corruption laws could have a material adverse effect on us. terrorist attacks, armed conflicts, labor disputes, natural disasters, governmental actions and epidemics could affect our domestic and international sales, disrupt our supply chain, and impair our ability to produce and deliver our products. such events could directly impact our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers, both in the united states and elsewhere. fluctuations and volatility in the cost of raw materials and purchased components could adversely affect our operating results. the primary materials used to produce and manufacture our products are steel, plastic resins, and base metals, such as aluminum, copper, zinc, and nickel. on a global and regional basis, the sources and prices of those materials and components containing those materials are susceptible to significant price fluctuations due to supply/demand trends, transportation costs, government regulations and tariffs, changes in currency exchange rates, price controls, the economic climate, and other unforeseen circumstances. significant increases in these and other costs in the future could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. 8 foreign currency fluctuations may affect our financial performance. we generate a significant portion of our revenue and incur a significant portion of our expenses in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. changes in the exchange rates of functional currencies of those operations affect the u.s. dollar value of our revenue and earnings from our foreign operations. we use currency forwards and options to manage our foreign currency transaction exposures. we cannot completely eliminate our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations, which may adversely affect our financial performance. in addition, because our consolidated financial results are reported in u.s. dollars, if we generate sales or earnings in other currencies, the translation of those results into u.s. dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those sales or earnings. finally, the amount of legal contingencies related to foreign operations may fluctuate significantly based upon changes in the exchange rates and usually cannot be managed with currency forwards, options or other arrangements. such fluctuations in exchange rates can significantly increase or decrease the amount of any legal contingency related to our foreign operations and make it difficult to assess and manage the potential exposure. unfavorable results of legal and tax proceedings could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition and performance. we are subject to a variety of litigation and legal compliance risks relating to, among other things, products, intellectual property rights, income and non-income taxes, environmental matters, corporate matters, commercial matters, competition laws and distribution, marketing and trade practices. for example, we are currently disputing certain income and non-income tax related assessments issued by the brazilian authorities relating to befiex, cfc tax and to ipi tax credits (see note 7 and note 12 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on these matters). unfavorable outcomes regarding these assessments could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity, or results of operations in any particular reporting period. results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty and for some matters, such as class actions, no insurance is likely available. regardless of merit, legal proceedings may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. we estimate loss contingencies and establish accruals as required by generally accepted accounting principles, based on our assessment of contingencies where liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable, in light of the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time. subsequent developments in legal proceedings, volatility in foreign currency exchange rates and other factors may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded and could result in an adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which a liability would be recognized or cash flows for the period in which amounts would be paid. actual results may significantly vary from our reserves. we are subject to, and could be further subject to, governmental investigations or actions by other third parties. we are subject to various federal, foreign and state laws, including antitrust laws, violations of which can involve civil or criminal sanctions. responding to governmental investigations or other actions may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. the impact of these and other investigations and lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. the conduct of our businesses, and the production, distribution, sale, advertising, safety, transportation and use of many of our products, are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the united states, as well as to foreign laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies in markets in which we operate. these laws and regulations may change, sometimes dramatically, as a result of political, economic or social events. changes in laws, regulations or governmental policy and the related interpretations may alter the environment in which we do business and, therefore, may impact our results or increase our costs or liabilities. in addition, we incur and will continue to incur capital and other expenditures to comply with various laws and regulations, especially relating to protection of the environment, human health and safety and energy efficiency. these types of costs could adversely affect our financial performance. additionally, we could be subjected to future liabilities, fines or penalties or the suspension of product production for failing to comply with various laws and regulations, including environmental regulations. cleanup obligations that might arise at any of our manufacturing sites or the imposition of more stringent environmental laws in the future could adversely affect us. failure to maintain our reputation and brand image could negatively impact our business. our brands have worldwide recognition, and our success depends on our ability to maintain and enhance our brand image and reputation. maintaining, promoting and growing our brands depends on our design and marketing efforts, including advertising and consumer campaigns, as well as product innovation. we could be adversely impacted if we fail to achieve any of these objectives or if, whether or not justified, the reputation or image of any of our brands is tarnished or receives negative publicity. in addition, adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us, or product quality issues, could damage our reputation and brand image, undermine our customers' confidence in us and reduce long-term demand for our products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. 9 in addition, our success in maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, including our increasing reliance on social media and online dissemination of advertising campaigns. negative posts or comments about us on social networking and other websites that spread rapidly through such forums could seriously damage our reputation and brand image. if we do not maintain, extend and expand our brand image, then our product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. an inability to effectively execute and manage our business objectives could adversely affect our financial performance. the highly competitive nature of our industry requires that we effectively execute and manage our business including our global operating platform initiative. our global operating platform initiative aims to reduce costs, expand margins, drive productivity and quality improvements, accelerate our rate of innovation, and drive shareholder value. our inability to effectively control costs and drive productivity improvements could affect our profits. in addition, our inability to provide high-quality, innovative products could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our sales, which could negatively affect our revenues and overall financial performance. additionally, our success is dependent on anticipating and appropriately reacting to changes in customer preferences and on successful new product and process development and product relaunches in response to such changes. our future results and our ability to maintain or improve our competitive position will depend on our capacity to gauge the direction of our key markets and upon our ability to successfully and timely identify, develop, manufacture, market, and sell new or improved products in these changing markets. we may be subject to information technology system failures, network disruptions, cybersecurity attacks and breaches in data security, which may materially adversely affect our operations, financial condition and operating results. we depend on information technology as an enabler to improve the effectiveness of our operations and to interface with our customers, as well as to maintain financial accuracy and efficiency. information technology system failures, including suppliers' or vendors' system failures, could disrupt our operations by causing transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, delays or cancellation of customer orders, the loss of customers, impediments to the manufacture or shipment of products, other business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach. in addition, we have outsourced certain information technology support services and administrative functions, such as payroll processing and benefit plan administration, to third-party service providers and may outsource other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. if the service providers to which we outsource these functions do not perform effectively, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings and may have to incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers. depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach, or harm employee morale. our information systems, or those of our third-party service providers, could also be penetrated by outside parties' intent on extracting information, corrupting information or disrupting business processes. such unauthorized access could disrupt our business and could result in the loss of assets. cybersecurity attacks are becoming more sophisticated and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information, and corruption of data. these events could impact our customers and reputation and lead to financial losses from remediation actions, loss of business or potential liability or an increase in expense, all of which may have a material adverse effect on our business. product liability or product recall costs could adversely affect our business and financial performance. we are subject to the risk of exposure to product liability and product recall claims if any of our products are alleged to have resulted in injury to persons or damage to property. in the event that any of our products prove to be defective, we may need to recall and/or redesign such products. in addition, any claim or product recall that results in significant adverse publicity, particularly if those claims or recalls cause customers to question the safety or reliability of our products, may negatively affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. we do maintain product liability insurance, but this insurance may not be adequate to cover losses related to product liability claims brought against us. we may also be involved in certain class action and other litigation, for which no insurance is available. product liability insurance could become more expensive and difficult to maintain and may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. in addition, we do not maintain any product recall insurance. therefore any product recall we are required to initiate could have a significant impact on our operating results and/or cash flows. we regularly engage in investigations of potential quality and safety issues as part of our ongoing effort to deliver quality products to our customers. we are currently investigating a limited number of potential quality and safety issues, and as necessary, we undertake to effect repair or replacement of appliances. currently we are implementing a corrective action plan affecting certain of our indesit and hotpoint branded dryers (see note 7 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on these matters). actual costs of these issues and any future issues depend upon several factors, including the number of consumers who respond to a particular recall, repair and administrative costs, whether the cost of any corrective action is borne initially by whirlpool or the supplier, and, if initially borne by whirlpool, whether we will be successful in recovering our costs 10 from the supplier. the actual costs incurred as a result of these issues and any future issues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we face inventory and other asset risk. we write-down product and component inventories that have become obsolete or do not meet anticipated demand or net realizable value. we also review our long-lived and intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changed circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. if we determine that impairment has occurred, we record a write-down to adjust carrying value to fair value. no assurance can be given that, given the unpredictable pace of product obsolescence and business conditions with trade customers and in general, we will not incur additional inventory or asset related charges. such charges could materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. we are exposed to risks associated with the uncertain global economy. uncertain and changing economic conditions within our regions, along with national debt and fiscal concerns in various regions and government austerity measures, are posing challenges to the industry in which whirlpool operates. a number of economic factors, including, but not limited to, gross domestic product, availability of consumer credit, interest rates, consumer sentiment and debt levels, retail trends, housing starts, sales of existing homes, the level of mortgage refinancing and defaults, fiscal and credit market uncertainty, and foreign currency exchange rates, generally affect demand for our products. economic uncertainty and related factors exacerbate negative trends in business and consumer spending and may cause certain customers to push out, cancel, or refrain from placing orders for our products. uncertain market conditions, difficulties in obtaining capital, or reduced profitability may also cause some customers to scale back operations, exit markets, merge with other retailers, or file for bankruptcy protection and potentially cease operations, which can also result in lower sales and/or additional inventory. these conditions may similarly affect key suppliers, which could impair their ability to deliver parts and result in delays for our products or added costs. in addition, these conditions may lead to strategic alliances by, or consolidation of, other appliance manufacturers, which could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. a decline in economic activity and conditions in the united states, latin america, europe, china and the other areas in which we operate have had an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in recent years, and future declines and adverse conditions could have a similar adverse effect. regional, political and economic instability in russia and ukraine may adversely affect business conditions and may disrupt our operations and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. uncertainty about future economic and industry conditions also makes it more challenging for us to forecast our operating results, make business decisions, and identify and prioritize the risks that may affect our businesses, sources and uses of cash, financial condition and results of operations. we may be required to implement additional cost reduction efforts, including restructuring activities, which may adversely affect our ability to capitalize on opportunities in a market recovery. in addition, our operations are subject to general credit, liquidity, foreign exchange, market and interest rate risks. our ability to invest in our businesses, fund strategic acquisitions and refinance maturing debt obligations depends in part on access to the capital markets. if we do not timely and appropriately adapt to changes resulting from the uncertain macroeconomic environment and industry conditions, or to difficulties in the financial markets, or if we are unable to continue to access the capital markets, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. the ability of suppliers to deliver parts, components and manufacturing equipment to our manufacturing facilities, and our ability to manufacture without disruption, could affect our global business performance. we use a wide range of materials and components in the global production of our products and use numerous suppliers to provide materials and components. because we generally do not have guaranteed supply arrangements with our suppliers and some key parts may be available only from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers, we are subject to supply and pricing risk. in addition, certain proprietary component parts used in some of our products are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. we would be unable to obtain these proprietary component parts for an indeterminate period of time if these single-source suppliers were to cease or interrupt production or otherwise fail to supply these components to us, which could adversely affect our product sales and operating results. our operations and operations at suppliers' facilities are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, work stoppages, labor relations, intellectual property claims against suppliers, information technology failures, and hazards such as fire, earthquakes, flooding, or other natural disasters, insurance for any of which may not be available, affordable or adequate. such disruption could interrupt our ability to manufacture certain products. any significant disruption could negatively impact our revenue and earnings performance. 11 our ability to attract, develop and retain executives and other qualified employees is crucial to our results of operations and future growth. we depend upon the continued services and performance of our key executives, senior management and skilled personnel, particularly our professionals with experience in our business and operations and the home appliance industry. we cannot be sure that any of these individuals will continue to be employed by us. a lengthy period of time is required to hire and develop replacement personnel when skilled personnel depart whirlpool. an inability to hire, develop, engage and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees could materially hinder our business by, for example, delaying our ability to bring new products to market or impairing the success of our operations. a deterioration in labor relations could adversely impact our global business. as of december 31, 2015 , we had approximately 97,000 employees. we are subject to separate collective bargaining agreements with certain labor unions, which generally have two to three year terms, as well as various other commitments regarding our workforce. we are periodically in negotiations with certain of the unions representing our employees and may be subject to employee work stoppages that, if such events were to occur, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. further, we cannot be assured that we will be able to renew collective bargaining agreements on the same or similar terms, or at all, which may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, services and brands. we consider our intellectual property rights, including patents, trademarks, trade secrets and licensing agreements, to be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and third party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. our failure to obtain or adequately protect our trademarks, products, new features of our products, or our processes may diminish our competitiveness. we have applied for patent protection in the united states and other jurisdictions with respect to certain innovations and new products, product features, and processes. we cannot be assured that the u.s. patent and trademark office or any other jurisdiction will approve any of our patent applications. additionally, the patents we own could be challenged, invalidated, or others could design around our patents and the patents may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage. further, the laws of certain foreign countries in which we do business, or contemplate doing business in the future, do not recognize intellectual property rights or protect them to the same extent as united states law. as a result, these factors could weaken our competitive advantage with respect to our products, services, and brands in foreign jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our financial performance. moreover, while we do not believe that any of our products infringe on enforceable intellectual property rights of third parties, others may assert intellectual property rights that cover some of our technology, brands, products, or services. any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly license agreements. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain products. significant differences between actual results and estimates of the amount of future funding for our pension plans and postretirement health care benefit programs, and significant changes in funding assumptions or significant increases in funding obligations due to regulatory changes, could adversely affect our financial results. we have both funded and unfunded defined benefit pension plans that cover certain employees in north america, europe, asia and brazil. we also have unfunded postretirement health care benefit plans for eligible retired employees. the employee retirement income security act of 1974 (erisa) and the internal revenue code, as amended, govern the funding obligations for our u.s. pension plans, which are our principal pension plans. our u.s. defined benefit plans were frozen as of december 31, 2006 for substantially all participants. for 2007 and beyond, whirlpool employees may participate in an enhanced defined contribution plan. as of december 31, 2015 , our projected benefit obligations under our pension plans and postretirement health and welfare benefit programs exceeded the fair value of plan assets by an aggregate of approximately $ 1.5 billion , ($ 1.0 billion of which was attributable to pension plans and $ 0.5 billion of which was attributable to postretirement health care benefits). estimates for the amount and timing of the future funding obligations of these pension plans and postretirement health and welfare benefit plans are based on various assumptions. these assumptions include discount rates, expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, life expectancies and health care cost trend rates. these assumptions are subject to change based on changes in interest rates on high quality bonds, stock and bond market returns, and health care cost trend rates, all of which are largely outside our control. significant differences in results or significant changes in assumptions may materially affect our postretirement obligations and related future contributions and expenses. 12 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 34 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk we have in place an enterprise risk management process that involves systematic risk identification and mitigation covering the categories of enterprise, strategic, financial, operation and compliance and reporting risk. the enterprise risk management process receives board of directors and management oversight, drives risk mitigation decision-making and is fully integrated into our internal audit planning and execution cycle. we are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, domestic and foreign interest rates, and commodity prices, which can affect our operating results and overall financial condition. we manage exposure to these risks through our operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivatives. derivatives are viewed as risk management tools and are not used for speculation or for trading purposes. derivatives are generally contracted with a diversified group of investment grade counterparties to reduce exposure to nonperformance on such instruments. we use foreign currency forward contracts, currency options and currency swaps to hedge the price risk associated with firmly committed and forecasted cross-border payments and receipts related to ongoing business and operational financing activities. foreign currency contracts are sensitive to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. at december 31, 2015 , a 10% favorable or unfavorable exchange rate movement in each currency in our portfolio of foreign currency contracts would have resulted in an incremental unrealized gain of approximately $65 million or loss of approximately $80 million. consistent with the use of these contracts to neutralize the effect of exchange rate fluctuations, such unrealized losses or gains would be offset by corresponding gains or losses, respectively, in the re-measurement of the underlying exposures. we enter into commodity swap contracts to hedge the price risk associated with firmly committed and forecasted commodities purchases, the prices of which are not fixed directly through supply contracts. as of december 31, 2015 , a 10% favorable or unfavorable shift in commodity prices would have resulted in an incremental gain or loss of approximately $35 million, respectively, related to these contracts. 34risk factors 7 for certain other financial information concerning our business segments and foreign and domestic operations, see note 13 to the consolidated financial statements. for information on our global restructuring plans, and the impact of these plans on our operating segments, see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. 5 executive officers of the registrant the following table sets forth the names and ages of our executive officers on february 13, 2017 , the positions and offices they held on that date, and the year they first became executive officers: name office first became an executive officer age jeff m. fettig director, chairman of the board and chief executive officer 1994 59 marc r. bitzer director, president and chief operating officer 2006 52 esther berrozpe galindo executive vice president and president, whirlpool emea 2013 47 jo o c. brega executive vice president and president, whirlpool latin america 2012 53 joseph t. liotine executive vice president and president, whirlpool north america 2014 44 james w. peters executive vice president and chief financial officer 2016 47 david t. szczupak executive vice president, global product organization 2008 61 the executive officers named above were elected by our board of directors to serve in the office indicated until the first meeting of the board of directors following the annual meeting of stockholders in 2017 and until a successor is chosen and qualified or until the executive officer's earlier resignation or removal. each of our executive officers has held the position set forth in the table above or has served whirlpool in various executive or administrative capacities for at least the past five years. available information financial results and investor information (including whirlpool's form 10-k, 10-q, and 8-k reports) are accessible at whirlpool's website: investors.whirlpoolcorp.com . copies of our form 10-k, 10-q, and 8-k reports and amendments, if any, are available free of charge through our website on the same day they are filed with, or furnished to, the securities and exchange commission. 6 item 1a. risk factors this report contains statements referring to whirlpool that are not historical facts and are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. these statements, which are intended to take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995, are based on current projections about operations, industry conditions, financial condition and liquidity. words that identify forward-looking statements include words such as may, could, will, should, possible, plan, predict, forecast, potential, anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, believe, may impact, on track, and words and terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance, a merger, or our businesses. in addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections, or other characterizations of future events or circumstances, including any underlying assumptions, are forward-looking statements. those statements are not guarantees and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict. therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from these forward-looking statements. we have listed below the most significant strategic, operational, financial, and legal and compliance risks relating to our business. strategic risks key risk risk description we face intense competition in the major home appliance industry and failure to successfully compete could negatively affect our business and financial performance. each of our operating segments operates in a highly competitive business environment and faces intense competition from a growing number of competitors, many of which have strong consumer brand equity. several of these competitors, such as arcelik, bosch siemens, electrolux, haier, lg, mabe, midea, panasonic and samsung are large, well-established companies, many ranking among the global fortune 150, and have demonstrated a commitment to success in the global market. moreover, our customer base includes large, sophisticated trade customers who have many choices and demand competitive products, services and prices. competition in the global appliance market is based on a number of factors including selling price, product features and design, performance, innovation, reputation, energy efficiency, quality, cost, distribution, and financial incentives, such as cooperative advertising, co-marketing funds, sales person incentives, volume rebates and terms. many of our competitors are increasingly expanding beyond their existing manufacturing footprints. our competitors, especially global competitors with low-cost sources of supply and/or highly protected home markets outside the united states, have aggressively priced their products and/or introduced new products to increase market share and expand into new geographies. if we are unable to successfully compete in this highly competitive environment, our business and financial performance could be negatively affected. the loss of, or substantial decline in, sales to any of our key trade customers, major buying groups, and builders could adversely affect our financial performance. we sell to a sophisticated customer base of large trade customers that have significant leverage as buyers over their suppliers. most of our products are not sold through long-term contracts, allowing trade customers to change volume among suppliers. as the trade customers continue to become larger, they may seek to use their position to improve their profitability by various means, including improved efficiency, lower pricing, and increased promotional programs. if we are unable to meet their demand requirements, our volume growth and financial results could be negatively affected. the loss of, or substantial decline in volume of, sales to our key trade customers, major buying groups, builders, or any other trade customers to which we sell a significant amount of products, could adversely affect our financial performance. additionally, the loss of market share or financial difficulties, including bankruptcy and financial restructuring, by these trade customers could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. 7 failure to maintain our reputation and brand image could negatively impact our business. our brands have worldwide recognition, and our success depends on our ability to maintain and enhance our brand image and reputation. maintaining, promoting and growing our brands depends on our marketing efforts, including advertising and consumer campaigns, as well as product innovation. we could be adversely impacted if we fail to achieve any of these objectives or if, whether or not justified, the reputation or image of our company or any of our brands is tarnished or receives negative publicity. in addition, adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us, or product quality issues, could damage our reputation and brand image, undermine our customers' confidence in us and reduce long-term demand for our products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. in addition, our success in maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, including our increasing reliance on social media and online dissemination of advertising campaigns. inaccurate or negative posts or comments about us on social networking and other websites that spread rapidly through such forums could seriously damage our reputation and brand image. if we do not maintain, extend and expand our brand image, then our product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. an inability to effectively execute and manage our business objectives could adversely affect our financial performance. the highly competitive nature of our industry requires that we effectively execute and manage our business objectives including our global operating platform initiative. our global operating platform initiative aims to reduce costs, expand margins, drive productivity and quality improvements, accelerate our rate of innovation, and drive shareholder value. our inability to effectively control costs and drive productivity improvements could affect our profits. in addition, our inability to provide high-quality, innovative products could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our sales, which could negatively affect our revenues and overall financial performance. additionally, our success is dependent on anticipating and appropriately reacting to changes in customer preferences and on successful new product and process development and product relaunches in response to such changes. our future results and our ability to maintain or improve our competitive position will depend on our capacity to gauge the direction of our key markets and upon our ability to successfully and timely identify, develop, manufacture, market, and sell new or improved products in these changing markets. our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, services and brands. we consider our intellectual property rights, including patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets, and the licenses we hold, to be a significant part and valuable aspect of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and third party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. our failure to obtain or adequately protect our trademarks, products, new features of our products, or our processes may diminish our competitiveness. we have applied for intellectual property protection in the united states and other jurisdictions with respect to certain innovations and new products, design patents, product features, and processes. we cannot be assured that the u.s. patent and trademark office or any similar authority in other jurisdictions will approve any of our patent applications. additionally, the patents we own could be challenged or invalidated, others could design around our patents or the patents may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage. further, the laws of certain foreign countries in which we do business, or contemplate doing business in the future, do not recognize intellectual property rights or protect them to the same extent as united states law. as a result, these factors could weaken our competitive advantage with respect to our products, services, and brands in foreign jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our financial performance. moreover, while we do not believe that any of our products infringe on enforceable intellectual property rights of third parties, others may assert intellectual property rights that cover some of our technology, brands, products, or services. any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly license agreements or modify our products or services. we also may be subject to significant damages, injunctions against development and sale of certain products or services, or limited in the use of our brands. 8 operational risks key risk risk description we face risks associated with our acquisitions and other investments and risks associated with our increased presence in emerging markets. from time to time, we make strategic acquisitions, investments and participate in joint ventures. for example, we acquired indesit and a majority interest in hefei sanyo in the fourth quarter of 2014. these transactions, and other transactions that we have entered into or which we may enter into in the future, can involve significant challenges and risks, including that the transaction does not advance our business strategy or fails to produce a satisfactory return on our investment. we may encounter difficulties in integrating acquisitions with our operations, applying our internal control processes to these acquisitions, and in managing strategic investments. integrating acquisitions is often costly and may require significant attention from management. furthermore, we may not realize the degree, or timing, of benefits we anticipate when we first enter into a transaction. while our evaluation of any potential acquisition includes business, legal and financial due diligence with the goal of identifying and evaluating the material risks involved, our due diligence reviews may not identify all of the issues necessary to accurately estimate the cost and potential loss contingencies of a particular transaction, including potential exposure to regulatory sanctions resulting from an acquisition target's previous activities or costs associated with any quality issues with an acquisition target's legacy products. our growth plans include efforts to increase revenue from emerging markets, including through acquisitions. local business practices in these countries may not comply with u.s. laws, local laws or other laws applicable to us or our compliance policies, which non-compliant practices may result in increased liability risks. for example, we may incur unanticipated costs, expenses or other liabilities as a result of an acquisition target's violation of applicable laws, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) or similar worldwide anti-bribery laws in non-u.s. jurisdictions. we may incur unanticipated costs or expenses, including post-closing asset impairment charges, expenses associated with eliminating duplicate facilities, litigation, and other liabilities. in addition, our recent and future acquisitions may increase our exposure to other risks associated with operating internationally, including foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; political, legal and economic instability; inflation; changes in tax rates and tax laws; and work stoppages and labor relations. 9 risks associated with our international operations may decrease our revenues and increase our costs. for the year ended december 31, 2016, international operations represent approximately 54% of our net sales, including 25% in emea, 16% in latin america, 7% in asia, 4% in canada and 2% in mexico. we expect that international sales will continue to account for a significant percentage of our net sales in the foreseeable future. accordingly, we face numerous risks associated with conducting international operations, any of which could negatively affect our financial performance. these risks include the following: political, legal, and economic instability and uncertainty; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; changes in foreign tax rules, regulations and other requirements, such as changes in tax rates and statutory and judicial interpretations of tax laws; changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, including sanctions resulting from the current political situation in countries in which we do business; inflation and/or deflation changes in foreign country regulatory requirements; various import/export restrictions and disruptions and the availability of required import/export licenses; imposition of tariffs and other trade barriers; managing widespread operations and enforcing internal policies and procedures such as compliance with u.s. and foreign anti-bribery and anti-corruption regulations, such as the fcpa, and antitrust laws; labor disputes and work stoppages at our operations and suppliers; government price controls; the inability to collect accounts receivable; and limitations on the repatriation or movement of earnings and cash. as a u.s. corporation, we are subject to the fcpa, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage to foreign companies that are not subject to similar regulations. additionally, any determination that we have violated the fcpa or other anti-corruption laws could have a material adverse effect on us. terrorist attacks, armed conflicts, civil unrest, natural disasters, governmental actions and epidemics could affect our domestic and international sales, disrupt our supply chain, and impair our ability to produce and deliver our products. such events could directly impact our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers. we may be subject to information technology system failures, network disruptions, cybersecurity attacks and breaches in data security, which may materially adversely affect our operations, financial condition and operating results. we depend on information technology to improve the effectiveness of our operations and to interface with our customers, as well as to maintain financial accuracy and efficiency. information technology system failures, including suppliers' or vendors' system failures, could disrupt our operations by causing transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, delays or cancellation of customer orders, the loss of customers, impediments to the manufacture or shipment of products, other business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach. in addition, we have outsourced certain information technology support services and administrative functions, such as payroll processing and benefit plan administration, to third-party service providers and may outsource other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. if these service providers do not perform effectively, we may not achieve the expected cost savings and may incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers. depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach, or harm employee morale. our information systems, or those of our third-party service providers, could also be penetrated by outside parties intent on extracting or corrupting information or disrupting business processes. such unauthorized access could disrupt our business and could result in the loss of assets. cybersecurity attacks are becoming more sophisticated and include malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information, and corruption of data. these events could impact our customers and reputation and lead to financial losses from remediation actions, loss of business or potential liability or an increase in expense, all of which may have a material adverse effect on our business. 10 product-related liability or product recall costs could adversely affect our business and financial performance. we may be exposed to product-related liabilities, which in some instances may result in product redesigns, product recalls, or other corrective action. in addition, any claim or product recall that results in significant adverse publicity, particularly if those claims or recalls cause customers to question the safety or reliability of our products, may negatively affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. we maintain product liability insurance, but it may not be adequate to cover losses related to product liability claims brought against us. product liability insurance could become more expensive and difficult to maintain and may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. we may also be involved in certain class action and other litigation, for which no insurance is available. a cost effective market for product recall insurance does not exist, so any product recall we initiate could have a significant impact on our operating results and/or cash flows. we regularly engage in investigations of potential quality and safety issues as part of our ongoing effort to deliver quality products to our customers. we are currently investigating a limited number of potential quality and safety issues, and as appropriate, we undertake to effect repair or replacement of appliances. currently we are implementing a corrective action plan affecting certain of our indesit and hotpoint * branded dryers (see note 6 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on these matters). actual costs of these and any future issues depend upon several factors, including the number of consumers who respond to a particular recall, repair and administrative costs, whether the cost of any corrective action is borne by whirlpool or the supplier, and, if borne by whirlpool, whether we will be successful in recovering our costs from the supplier. the actual costs incurred as a result of these issues and any future issues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the ability of suppliers to deliver parts, components and manufacturing equipment to our manufacturing facilities, and our ability to manufacture without disruption, could affect our global business performance. we use a wide range of materials and components in the global production of our products, which come from numerous suppliers. because not all of our business arrangements provide for guaranteed supply and some key parts may be available only from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers, we are subject to supply and pricing risk. in addition, certain proprietary component parts used in some of our products are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. we would be unable to obtain these proprietary components for an indeterminate period of time if these single-source suppliers were to cease or interrupt production or otherwise fail to supply these components to us, which could adversely affect our product sales and operating results. our operations and those of our suppliers are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including work stoppages, labor relations, intellectual property claims against suppliers, information technology failures, and hazards such as fire, earthquakes, flooding, or other natural disasters, insurance for any of which may not be available, affordable or adequate. such disruption could interrupt our ability to manufacture certain products. any significant disruption could negatively impact our revenue and/or earnings performance. our ability to attract, develop and retain executives and other qualified employees is crucial to our results of operations and future growth. we depend upon the continued services and performance of our key executives, senior management and skilled personnel, particularly professionals with experience in our business and operations and the home appliance industry. we cannot be sure that any of these individuals will continue to be employed by us. significant time is required to hire and develop skilled replacement personnel. an inability to hire, develop, engage and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees could materially hinder our business by, for example, delaying our ability to bring new products to market or impairing the success of our operations. a deterioration in labor relations could adversely impact our global business. as of december 31, 2016, we had approximately 93,000 employees. we are subject to separate collective bargaining agreements with certain labor unions, which generally have two to three year terms, as well as various other commitments regarding our workforce. we periodically negotiate with certain unions representing our employees and may be subject to work stoppages or may be unable to renew collective bargaining agreements on the same or similar terms, or at all, all of which may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. *whirlpool ownership of the hotpoint brand in the emea and asia pacific regions is not affiliated with the hotpoint brand sold in the americas 11 financial risks key risk risk description fluctuations and volatility in the cost of raw materials and purchased components could adversely affect our operating results. the sources and prices of the primary materials (such as steel, resins, and base metals) used to manufacture our products and components containing those materials are susceptible to significant global and regional price fluctuations due to supply/demand trends, transportation costs, government regulations (such as conflict mineral provisions) and tariffs, changes in currency exchange rates, price controls, the economic climate, and other unforeseen circumstances. significant increases in these and other costs in the future could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. foreign currency fluctuations may affect our financial performance. we generate a significant portion of our revenue and incur a significant portion of our expenses in foreign currencies. changes in the exchange rates of functional currencies of those operations affect the u.s. dollar value of our revenue and earnings from our foreign operations. we use currency forwards, net investment hedges, and options to manage our foreign currency transaction exposures. we cannot completely eliminate our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations, which may adversely affect our financial performance. in addition, because our consolidated financial results are reported in u.s. dollars, if we generate sales or earnings in other currencies, the translation of those results into u.s. dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those sales or earnings. finally, the amount of legal contingencies related to foreign operations may fluctuate significantly based upon changes in exchange rates and usually cannot be managed with currency forwards, options or other arrangements. such fluctuations in exchange rates can significantly increase or decrease the amount of any legal contingency related to our foreign operations and make it difficult to assess and manage the potential exposure. we face inventory and other asset risk. we write down product and component inventories that have become obsolete or do not meet anticipated demand or net realizable value. we also review our long-lived and intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changed circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. if we determine that impairment has occurred, we record a write-down to adjust carrying value to fair value. no assurance can be given that, given the unpredictable pace of product obsolescence and business conditions with trade customers and in general, we will not incur additional inventory or asset related charges. such charges could negatively affect our financial condition and operating results. 12 we are exposed to risks associated with the uncertain global economy. uncertain and changing economic conditions within our regions, along with national debt and fiscal concerns in various regions and government austerity measures, are posing challenges to the industry in which whirlpool operates. a number of economic factors, including gross domestic product, availability of consumer credit, interest rates, consumer sentiment and debt levels, retail trends, housing starts, sales of existing homes, the level of mortgage refinancing and defaults, fiscal and credit market uncertainty, and foreign currency exchange rates, generally affect demand for our products. economic uncertainty and related factors exacerbate negative trends in business and consumer spending and may cause certain customers to push out, cancel, or refrain from placing orders for our products. uncertain market conditions, difficulties in obtaining capital, or reduced profitability may also cause some customers to scale back operations, exit markets, merge with other retailers, or file for bankruptcy protection and potentially cease operations, which can also result in lower sales and/or additional inventory. these conditions may similarly affect key suppliers, which could impair their ability to deliver parts and result in delays for our products or added costs. in addition, these conditions may lead to strategic alliances by, or consolidation of, other appliance manufacturers, which could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. a decline in economic activity and conditions in certain areas in which we operate have had an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in recent years, and future declines and adverse conditions could have a similar adverse effect. regional, political and economic instability in countries in which we do business may adversely affect business conditions, disrupt our operations, and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. uncertainty about future economic and industry conditions also makes it more challenging for us to forecast our operating results, make business decisions, and identify and prioritize the risks that may affect our businesses, sources and uses of cash, financial condition and results of operations. we may be required to implement additional cost reduction efforts, including restructuring activities, which may adversely affect our ability to capitalize on opportunities in a market recovery. in addition, our operations are subject to general credit, liquidity, foreign exchange, market and interest rate risks. our ability to invest in our businesses, fund strategic acquisitions and refinance maturing debt obligations depends in part on access to the capital markets. if we do not timely and appropriately adapt to changes resulting from the uncertain macroeconomic environment and industry conditions, or to difficulties in the financial markets, or if we are unable to continue to access the capital markets, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. significant differences between actual results and estimates of the amount of future funding for our pension plans and postretirement health care benefit programs, and significant changes in funding assumptions or significant increases in funding obligations due to regulatory changes, could adversely affect our financial results. we have both funded and unfunded defined benefit pension plans that cover certain employees around the world. we also have unfunded postretirement health care benefit plans for eligible retired employees. the employee retirement income security act of 1974 (erisa) and the internal revenue code, as amended, govern the funding obligations for our u.s. pension plans, which are our principal pension plans. our u.s. defined benefit plans were frozen as of december 31, 2006 for substantially all participants. for 2007 and beyond, whirlpool employees may participate in an enhanced defined contribution plan. as of december 31, 2016, our projected benefit obligations under our pension plans and postretirement health and welfare benefit programs exceeded the fair value of plan assets by an aggregate of approximately $1.5 billion, ($1.1 billion of which was attributable to pension plans and $0.4 billion of which was attributable to postretirement health care benefits). estimates for the amount and timing of the future funding obligations of these pension plans and postretirement health and welfare benefit plans are based on various assumptions. these assumptions include discount rates, expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, life expectancies and health care cost trend rates. these assumptions are subject to change based on changes in interest rates on high quality bonds, stock and bond market returns, and health care cost trend rates, all of which are largely outside our control. significant differences in results or significant changes in assumptions may materially affect our postretirement obligations and related future contributions and expenses. 13 legal &amp; compliance risks key risk risk description unfavorable results of legal and regulatory proceedings could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition and performance. we are subject to a variety of litigation and legal compliance risks relating to, among other things, products, intellectual property rights, income and non-income taxes, environmental matters, corporate matters, commercial matters, competition laws and distribution, marketing and trade practices, anti-bribery, anti-corruption, energy regulations, and employment and benefit matters. for example, we are currently disputing certain income and non-income tax related assessments issued by the brazilian authorities (see note 6 and note 11 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on these matters). unfavorable outcomes regarding these assessments could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity, or results of operations in any particular reporting period. results of such proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty and for some matters, such as class actions, no insurance is cost effectively available. regardless of merit, such proceedings may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. we estimate loss contingencies and establish accruals as required by generally accepted accounting principles, based on our assessment of contingencies where liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable, in light of the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time. subsequent developments in legal proceedings, volatility in foreign currency exchange rates and other factors may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded and could result in an adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which a liability would be recognized or cash flows for the period in which amounts would be paid. actual results may significantly vary from our reserves. we are subject to, and could be further subject to, governmental investigations or actions by other third parties. we are subject to various federal, foreign and state laws, including antitrust laws, violations of which can involve civil or criminal sanctions. responding to governmental investigations or other actions may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. the impact of these and other investigations and lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. the conduct of our businesses, and the production, distribution, sale, advertising, labeling, safety, transportation and use of many of our products, are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the united states, as well as to foreign laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies in markets in which we operate. these laws and regulations may change, sometimes dramatically, as a result of political, economic or social events. changes in laws, regulations or governmental policy and the related interpretations may alter the environment in which we do business and may impact our results or increase our costs or liabilities. in addition, we incur and will continue to incur capital and other expenditures to comply with various laws and regulations, especially relating to protection of the environment, human health and safety and energy efficiency. these types of costs could adversely affect our financial performance. additionally, we could be subjected to future liabilities, fines or penalties or the suspension of product production for failing to comply with various laws and regulations, including environmental regulations. cleanup obligations that might arise at any of our manufacturing sites or the imposition of more stringent environmental laws in the future could adversely affect us. 14 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 33 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk we have in place an enterprise risk management process that involves systematic risk identification and mitigation covering the categories of enterprise, strategic, financial, operation and compliance and reporting risk. the enterprise risk management process receives board of directors and management oversight, drives risk mitigation decision-making and is fully integrated into our internal audit planning and execution cycle. we are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, domestic and foreign interest rates, and commodity prices, which can affect our operating results and overall financial condition. we manage exposure to these risks through our operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivatives. derivatives are viewed as risk management tools and are not used for speculation or for trading purposes. derivatives are generally contracted with a diversified group of investment grade counterparties to reduce exposure to nonperformance on such instruments. we use foreign currency forward contracts, currency options, and currency swaps to hedge the price risk associated with firmly committed and forecasted cross-border payments and receipts related to ongoing business and operational financing activities. foreign currency contracts are sensitive to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. at december 31, 2016 , a 10% favorable or unfavorable exchange rate movement in each currency in our portfolio of foreign currency contracts would have resulted in an incremental unrealized gain of approximately $125 million or loss of approximately $145 million. consistent with the use of these contracts to neutralize the effect of exchange rate fluctuations, such unrealized losses or gains would be offset by corresponding gains or losses, respectively, in the re-measurement of the underlying exposures. we enter into commodity swap contracts to hedge the price risk associated with firmly committed and forecasted commodities purchases, the prices of which are not fixed directly through supply contracts. as of december 31, 2016 , a 10% favorable or unfavorable shift in commodity prices would have resulted in an incremental gain or loss of approximately $30 million, respectively, related to these contracts. 33risk factors 9 for certain other financial information concerning our business segments and foreign and domestic operations, see note 13 to the consolidated financial statements. for information on our global restructuring plans, and the impact of these plans on our operating segments, see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. executive officers of the registrant the following table sets forth the names and ages of our executive officers on february 13, 2018 , the positions and offices they held on that date, and the year they first became executive officers: name office first became an executive officer age jeff m. fettig director, executive chairman of the board 1994 60 marc r. bitzer director, president and chief executive officer 2006 53 james w. peters executive vice president and chief financial officer 2016 48 jo o c. brega executive vice president and president, whirlpool latin america 2012 54 esther berrozpe galindo executive vice president and president, whirlpool emea 2013 48 joseph t. liotine executive vice president and president, whirlpool north america 2014 45 the executive officers named above were elected by our board of directors to serve in the office indicated until the first meeting of the board of directors following the annual meeting of stockholders in 2018 and until a successor is chosen and qualified or until the executive officer's earlier resignation or removal. each of our executive officers has held the position set forth in the table above or has served whirlpool in various executive or administrative capacities for at least the past five years. available information financial results and investor information (including whirlpool's form 10-k, 10-q, and 8-k reports) are accessible at whirlpool's website: investors.whirlpoolcorp.com . copies of our form 10-k, 10-q, and 8-k reports and amendments, if any, are available free of charge through our website on the same day they are filed with, or furnished to, the securities and exchange commission. item 1a. risk factors this report contains statements referring to whirlpool that are not historical facts and are considered "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. these statements, which are intended to take advantage of the "safe harbor" provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995, are based on current projections about operations, industry conditions, financial condition and liquidity. words that identify forward-looking statements include words such as "may," "could," "will," "should," "possible," "plan," "predict," "forecast," "potential," "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "intend," "believe," "may impact," "on track," and words and terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance, an acquisition or merger, or our businesses. in addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections, or other characterizations of future events or circumstances, including any underlying assumptions, are forward-looking 9 statements. those statements are not guarantees and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict. therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from these forward-looking statements. we have listed below the most significant strategic, operational, financial, and legal and compliance risks relating to our business. strategic risks we face intense competition in the major home appliance industry and failure to successfully compete could negatively affect our business and financial performance. each of our operating segments operates in a highly competitive business environment and faces intense competition from a growing number of competitors, many of which have strong consumer brand equity. several of these competitors, such as arcelik, bosch siemens, electrolux, haier, kenmore, lg, mabe, midea, panasonic and samsung are large, well-established companies, many ranking among the global fortune 150, and have demonstrated a commitment to global success. moreover, our customer base includes large, sophisticated trade customers who have many choices and demand competitive products, services and prices. competition in the global appliance industry is based on a number of factors including selling price, product features and design, performance, innovation, reputation, energy efficiency, quality, cost, distribution, and financial incentives, such as cooperative advertising, co-marketing funds, sales person incentives, volume rebates and terms. many of our competitors are increasingly expanding beyond their existing manufacturing footprints. our competitors, especially global competitors with low-cost sources of supply and/or highly protected home marketplaces outside the united states, have aggressively priced their products and/or introduced new products to increase market share and expand into new geographies. many of our competitors have established and may expand their presence in the rapidly changing retail environment, including the shifting of consumer purchasing practices towards e-commerce and other channels. if we are unable to successfully compete in this highly competitive environment, our business and financial performance could be negatively affected. the loss of, or substantial decline in, sales to any of our key trade customers, major buying groups, and builders could adversely affect our financial performance. we sell to a sophisticated customer base of large trade customers that have significant leverage as buyers over their suppliers. most of our products are not sold through long-term contracts, allowing trade customers to change volume among suppliers. as the trade customers continue to become larger, they may seek to use their position to improve their profitability by various means, including improved efficiency, lower pricing, and increased promotional programs. if we are unable to meet their demand requirements, our volume growth and financial results could be negatively affected. the loss or substantial decline in volume of sales to our key trade customers, major buying groups, builders, or any other trade customers to which we sell a significant amount of products, could adversely affect our financial performance. additionally, the loss of market share or financial difficulties, including bankruptcy and financial restructuring, by these trade customers could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. failure to maintain our reputation and brand image could negatively impact our business. our brands have worldwide recognition, and our success depends on our ability to maintain and enhance our brand image and reputation. maintaining, promoting and growing our brands depends on our marketing efforts, including advertising and consumer campaigns, as well as product innovation. we could be adversely impacted if we fail to achieve any of these objectives or if, whether or not justified, the reputation or image of our company or any of our brands is tarnished or receives negative publicity. in addition, adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us, or product quality issues, could damage our reputation and brand image, undermine our customers' confidence in us and reduce long-term demand for our products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. in addition, our success in maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, including an increasing reliance on social media and online dissemination of advertising campaigns. inaccurate or negative posts or comments about us on social networking and other websites that spread rapidly through such forums could seriously damage our reputation and brand image. if we do not maintain, extend and expand our brand image, then our product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 10 an inability to effectively execute and manage our business objectives could adversely affect our financial performance. the highly competitive nature of our industry requires that we effectively execute and manage our business objectives including our global operating platform initiative. our global operating platform initiative aims to reduce costs, expand margins, drive productivity and quality improvements, accelerate our rate of innovation, generate free cash flow and drive shareholder value. our inability to effectively control costs and drive productivity improvements could affect our profitability. in addition, our inability to provide high-quality, innovative products could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our sales, which could negatively affect our revenues and overall financial performance. additionally, our success is dependent on anticipating and appropriately reacting to changes in customer preferences, including the shifting of consumer purchasing practices towards e-commerce and other channels, and on successful new product and process development and product relaunches in response to such changes. our future results and our ability to maintain or improve our competitive position will depend on our capacity to gauge the direction of our key product categories and geographic regions and upon our ability to successfully and timely identify, develop, manufacture, market, and sell new or improved products in these changing environments. our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, services and brands. we consider our intellectual property rights, including patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets, and the licenses we hold, to be a significant part and valuable aspect of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and third party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. our failure to obtain or adequately protect our trademarks, products, new features of our products, or our processes may diminish our competitiveness. we have applied for intellectual property protection in the united states and other jurisdictions with respect to certain innovations and new products, design patents, product features, and processes. we cannot be assured that the u.s. patent and trademark office or any similar authority in other jurisdictions will approve any of our patent applications. additionally, the patents we own could be challenged or invalidated, others could design around our patents or the patents may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage. further, the laws of certain foreign countries in which we do business, or contemplate doing business in the future, do not recognize intellectual property rights or protect them to the same extent as united states law. as a result, these factors could weaken our competitive advantage with respect to our products, services, and brands in foreign jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our financial performance. moreover, while we do not believe that any of our products infringe on enforceable intellectual property rights of third parties, others may assert intellectual property rights that cover some of our technology, brands, products, or services. any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly license agreements or modify our products or services. we also may be subject to significant damages, injunctions against development and sale of certain products or services, or limited in the use of our brands. operational risks we face risks associated with our acquisitions and other investments and risks associated with our increased presence in emerging markets. from time to time, we make strategic acquisitions, investments and participate in joint ventures. for example, we acquired indesit and a majority interest in hefei sanyo in the fourth quarter of 2014. these transactions, and other transactions that we have entered into or which we may enter into in the future, can involve significant challenges and risks, including that the transaction does not advance our business strategy or fails to produce a satisfactory return on our investment. we may encounter difficulties in integrating acquisitions with our operations, applying our internal control processes to these acquisitions, and managing strategic investments, and in overseeing the operations, systems and controls of acquired companies. for example, in 2017, we recorded an adjustment primarily for trade promotion accruals by our china business, and took certain actions as a result of our review of the conduct and processes involved. integrating acquisitions is often costly and may require significant attention from management. furthermore, we may not realize the degree, or timing, of benefits we anticipate when we first enter into a transaction. while our evaluation of any potential acquisition includes business, legal and financial due diligence with the goal of identifying and evaluating the material risks involved, our due diligence reviews may not identify all 11 of the issues necessary to accurately estimate the cost and potential loss contingencies of a particular transaction, including potential exposure to regulatory sanctions resulting from an acquisition target's previous activities or costs associated with any quality issues with an acquisition target's legacy products. our growth plans include efforts to increase revenue from emerging markets, including through acquisitions. local business practices in these countries may not comply with u.s. laws, local laws or other laws applicable to us or our compliance policies, which non-compliant practices may result in increased liability risks. for example, we may incur unanticipated costs, expenses or other liabilities as a result of an acquisition target's violation of applicable laws, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) or similar worldwide anti-bribery laws in non-u.s. jurisdictions. we may incur unanticipated costs or expenses, including post-closing asset impairment charges, expenses associated with eliminating duplicate facilities, litigation, and other liabilities. in addition, our recent and future acquisitions may increase our exposure to other risks associated with operating internationally, including foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; political, legal and economic instability; inflation; changes in tax rates and tax laws; and work stoppages and labor relations. risks associated with our international operations may decrease our revenues and increase our costs. for the year ended december 31 , 2017 , international operations represent approximately 52% of our net sales. we expect that international sales will continue to account for a significant percentage of our net sales for the foreseeable future. accordingly, we face numerous risks associated with conducting international operations, any of which could negatively affect our financial performance. these risks include the following: political, legal, and economic instability and uncertainty foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations changes in foreign tax rules, regulations and other requirements, such as changes in tax rates and statutory and judicial interpretations of tax laws changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, including sanctions resulting from the current political situation in countries in which we do business inflation and/or deflation changes in foreign country regulatory requirements various import/export restrictions and disruptions and the availability of required import/export licenses imposition of tariffs and other trade barriers managing widespread operations and enforcing internal policies and procedures such as compliance with u.s. and foreign anti-bribery, anti-corruption regulations and anti-money laundering, such as the fcpa, and antitrust laws labor disputes and work stoppages at our operations and suppliers government price controls the inability to collect accounts receivable limitations on the repatriation or movement of earnings and cash as a u.s. corporation, we are subject to the fcpa, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage to foreign companies that are not subject to similar regulations. additionally, any determination that we have violated the fcpa or other anti-corruption laws could have a material adverse effect on us. terrorist attacks, armed conflicts, civil unrest, natural disasters, governmental actions and epidemics could affect our domestic and international sales, disrupt our supply chain, and impair our ability to produce and deliver our products. such events could directly impact our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers. 12 we may be subject to information technology system failures, network disruptions, cybersecurity attacks and breaches in data security, which may materially adversely affect our operations, financial condition and operating results. we depend on information technology to improve the effectiveness of our operations and to interface with our customers, consumers and employees, as well as to maintain financial accuracy and efficiency. our business processes and data sharing across functions, suppliers, and vendors is dependent on information technology integration. the failure of any systems, whether internal or third-party, during normal operation, system upgrades, implementations, or connections, could disrupt our operations by causing transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, delays or cancellation of customer orders, the loss of customers, impediments to the manufacture or shipment of products, other financial and business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property and the personally identifiable data of consumers and employees. in addition, we have outsourced certain information technology support services and administrative functions, such as system application maintenance and benefit plan administration, to third-party service providers and may outsource other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. if these service providers do not perform effectively, we may not achieve the expected cost savings and may incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers. depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies or the loss of or damage to intellectual property and personally identifiable information through system compromise, or harm employee morale. our information systems, or those of our third-party service providers, could also be impacted by inappropriate or mistaken activity of parties intent on extracting or corrupting information or disrupting business processes. such unauthorized access could disrupt our business and could result in the loss of assets. cybersecurity attacks are becoming more sophisticated and include malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information, and corruption of data. these events could impact our customers, consumers, employees, third-parties and reputation and lead to financial losses from remediation actions, loss of business or potential liability or an increase in expense, all of which may have a material adverse effect on our business. product-related liability or product recall costs could adversely affect our business and financial performance. we may be exposed to product-related liabilities, which in some instances may result in product redesigns, product recalls, or other corrective action. in addition, any claim, product recall or other corrective action that results in significant adverse publicity, particularly if those claims or recalls cause customers to question the safety or reliability of our products, may negatively affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. we maintain product liability insurance, but it may not be adequate to cover losses related to product liability claims brought against us. product liability insurance could become more expensive and difficult to maintain and may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. we may also be involved in certain class action and other litigation, for which no insurance is available. a cost effective market for product recall insurance may not exist, so any product recall we initiate could have a significant impact on our operating results and/or cash flows. we regularly engage in investigations of potential quality and safety issues as part of our ongoing effort to deliver quality products to our customers. we are currently investigating a limited number of potential quality and safety issues, and as appropriate, we undertake to effect repair or replacement of appliances. actual costs of these and any future issues depend upon several factors, including the number of consumers who respond to a particular recall, repair and administrative costs, whether the cost of any corrective action is borne by us or the supplier, and, if borne by us, whether we will be successful in recovering our costs from the supplier. the actual costs incurred as a result of these issues and any future issues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 13 the ability of suppliers to deliver parts, components and manufacturing equipment to our manufacturing facilities, and our ability to manufacture without disruption, could affect our global business performance. we use a wide range of materials and components in the global production of our products, which come from numerous suppliers. because not all of our business arrangements provide for guaranteed supply and some key parts may be available only from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers, we are subject to supply and pricing risk. in addition, certain proprietary component parts used in some of our products are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. we would be unable to obtain these proprietary components for an indeterminate period of time if these single-source suppliers were to cease or interrupt production or otherwise fail to supply these components to us, which could adversely affect our product sales and operating results. our operations and those of our suppliers are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including work stoppages, labor relations, intellectual property claims against suppliers, information technology failures, and hazards such as fire, earthquakes, flooding, or other natural disasters, insurance for any of which may not be available, affordable or adequate. such disruption could interrupt our ability to manufacture certain products. any significant disruption could negatively impact our revenue and/or earnings performance. our ability to attract, develop and retain executives and other qualified employees is crucial to our results of operations and future growth. we depend upon the continued services and performance of our key executives, senior management and skilled personnel, particularly professionals with experience in our business and operations and the home appliance industry. we cannot be sure that any of these individuals will continue to be employed by us. in the case of talent losses, significant time is required to hire, develop and train skilled replacement personnel. an inability to hire, develop, transfer retained knowledge, engage and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees could materially hinder our business by, for example, delaying our ability to bring new products to market or impairing the success of our operations. a deterioration in labor relations could adversely impact our global business. as of december 31 , 2017 , we had approximately 92,000 employees. we are subject to separate collective bargaining agreements with certain labor unions, which generally have four to five year terms, as well as various other commitments regarding our workforce. we periodically negotiate with certain unions representing our employees and may be subject to work stoppages or may be unable to renew collective bargaining agreements on the same or similar terms, or at all, all of which may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. financial risks fluctuations and volatility in the cost of raw materials and purchased components could adversely affect our operating results. the sources and prices of the primary materials (such as steel, resins, and base metals) used to manufacture our products and components containing those materials are susceptible to significant global and regional price fluctuations due to supply/demand trends, transportation costs, labor costs, government regulations (such as conflict mineral provisions) and tariffs, changes in currency exchange rates, price controls, the economic climate, and other unforeseen circumstances. for example, we experienced significant raw material inflation during 2017, which negatively impacted our operating results. significant increases in these and other costs now and in the future could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. foreign currency fluctuations may affect our financial performance. we generate a significant portion of our revenue and incur a significant portion of our expenses in foreign currencies. changes in the exchange rates of functional currencies of those operations affect the u.s. dollar value of our revenue and earnings from our foreign operations. we use currency forwards, net investment hedges, and options to manage our foreign currency transaction exposures. we cannot completely eliminate our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations, which may adversely affect our financial performance. in addition, because our consolidated financial results are reported in u.s. dollars, if we generate sales or earnings in other currencies, the translation of those results into u.s. dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those sales or earnings. 14 finally, the amount of legal contingencies related to foreign operations may fluctuate significantly based upon changes in exchange rates and usually cannot be managed with currency forwards, options or other arrangements. such fluctuations in exchange rates can significantly increase or decrease the amount of any legal contingency related to our foreign operations and make it difficult to assess and manage the potential exposure. goodwill and indefinite-life intangible asset impairment charges may adversely affect our operating results. we have a substantial amount of goodwill and indefinite-life intangible assets, primarily trademarks, on our balance sheet. we test the goodwill and intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis and when events occur or circumstances change that indicate that the fair value of the reporting unit or intangible asset may be below its carrying amount. fair value determinations require considerable judgment and are sensitive to inherent uncertainties and changes in estimates and assumptions regarding revenue growth rates, operating margins, capital expenditures, working capital requirements, tax rates, terminal growth rates, discount rates, royalty rates, benefits associated with a taxable transaction and synergistic benefits available to market participants. declines in market conditions, a trend of weaker than anticipated financial performance for our reporting units or declines in projected revenue for our trademarks, a decline in our share price for a sustained period of time, an increase in the market-based weighted average cost of capital or a decrease in royalty rates, among other factors, are indicators that the carrying value of our goodwill or indefinite-life intangible assets may not be recoverable. we may be required to record a goodwill or intangible asset impairment charge that, if incurred, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. impairment of long-lived assets may adversely affect our operating results our long-lived asset groups are subject to an impairment assessment when certain triggering events or circumstances indicate that their carrying value may be impaired. if the carrying value exceeds our estimate of future undiscounted cash flows of the operations related to the asset group, an impairment is recorded for the difference between the carrying amount and the fair value of the asset group. the results of these tests for potential impairment may be adversely affected by unfavorable market conditions, our financial performance trends, or an increase in interest rates, among other factors. if as a result of the impairment test we determine that the fair value of any of our long-lived asset groups is less than its carrying amount, we may incur an impairment charge that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we face inventory valuation risk. we write down product and component inventories that have become obsolete or do not meet anticipated demand or net realizable value. no assurance can be given that, given the unpredictable pace of product obsolescence and business conditions with trade customers and in general, we will not incur additional inventory related charges. such charges could negatively affect our financial condition and operating results. we are exposed to risks associated with the uncertain global economy. uncertain and changing economic conditions within our regions, along with national debt and fiscal concerns in various regions and government austerity measures, are posing challenges to the industry in which we operate. a number of economic factors, including gross domestic product, availability of consumer credit, interest rates, consumer sentiment and debt levels, retail trends, housing starts, sales of existing homes, the level of mortgage refinancing and defaults, fiscal and credit market uncertainty, and foreign currency exchange rates, currency controls, inflation and deflation, generally affect demand for our products. economic uncertainty and related factors exacerbate negative trends in business and consumer spending and may cause certain customers to push out, cancel, or refrain from placing orders for our products. uncertain market conditions, difficulties in obtaining capital, or reduced profitability may also cause some customers to scale back operations, exit markets, merge with other retailers, or file for bankruptcy protection and potentially cease operations, which can also result in lower sales and/or additional inventory. these conditions may similarly affect key suppliers, which could impair their ability to deliver parts and result in delays for our products or added costs. in addition, these conditions may lead to strategic alliances by, or consolidation of, other appliance manufacturers, which could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. 15 a decline in economic activity and conditions in certain areas in which we operate have had an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in recent years, and future declines and adverse conditions could have a similar adverse effect. regional, political and economic instability in countries in which we do business may adversely affect business conditions, disrupt our operations, and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. uncertainty about future economic and industry conditions also makes it more challenging for us to forecast our operating results, make business decisions, and identify and prioritize the risks that may affect our businesses, sources and uses of cash, financial condition and results of operations. we may be required to implement additional cost reduction efforts, including restructuring activities, which may adversely affect our ability to capitalize on opportunities in a market recovery. in addition, our operations are subject to general credit, liquidity, foreign exchange, market and interest rate risks. our ability to invest in our businesses, fund strategic acquisitions and refinance maturing debt obligations depends in part on access to the capital markets. if we do not timely and appropriately adapt to changes resulting from the uncertain macroeconomic environment and industry conditions, or to difficulties in the financial markets, or if we are unable to continue to access the capital markets, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. significant differences between actual results and estimates of the amount of future funding for our pension plans and postretirement health care benefit programs, and significant changes in funding assumptions or significant increases in funding obligations due to regulatory changes, could adversely affect our financial results. we have both funded and unfunded defined benefit pension plans that cover certain employees around the world. we also have unfunded postretirement health care benefit plans for eligible retired employees. the employee retirement income security act of 1974 (erisa) and the internal revenue code, as amended, govern the funding obligations for our u.s. pension plans, which are our principal pension plans. our u.s. defined benefit plans were frozen on or before december 31, 2006 for substantially all participants. since 2007, u.s. employees have been eligible for an enhanced employer contribution under whirlpool's defined contribution (401(k)) plan. as of december 31 , 2017 , our projected benefit obligations under our pension plans and postretirement health and welfare benefit programs exceeded the fair value of plan assets by an aggregate of approximately $1.4 billion , including $1.0 billion of which was attributable to pension plans and $0.4 billion of which was attributable to postretirement health care benefits. estimates for the amount and timing of the future funding obligations of these pension plans and postretirement health and welfare benefit plans are based on various assumptions. these assumptions include discount rates, expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, life expectancies and health care cost trend rates. these assumptions are subject to change based on changes in interest rates on high quality bonds, stock and bond market returns, health care cost trend rates and regulatory changes, all of which are largely outside our control. significant differences in results or significant changes in assumptions may materially affect our postretirement obligations and related future contributions and expenses. legal &amp; compliance risks unfavorable results of legal and regulatory proceedings could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition and performance. we are subject to a variety of litigation and legal compliance risks relating to, among other things, products, intellectual property rights, income and non-income taxes, environmental matters, corporate matters, commercial matters, competition laws and distribution, marketing and trade practices, anti-bribery, anti-corruption, energy regulations, financial regulations and employment and benefit matters. for example, we are currently disputing certain income and non-income tax related assessments issued by the brazilian authorities (see notes 5 and 12 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on these matters). unfavorable outcomes regarding these assessments could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity, or results of operations in any particular reporting period. results of such proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty and for some matters, such as class actions, no insurance is cost effectively available. regardless of merit, such proceedings may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. such proceedings could also generate significant adverse publicity and have a negative impact on our reputation and brand image, regardless of the existence or amount of liability. we estimate loss contingencies and establish accruals as required by generally accepted accounting principles, based on our assessment of contingencies where liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable, in light of the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time. subsequent developments in legal proceedings, volatility in foreign currency exchange rates and other factors may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss 16 contingency recorded and could result in an adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which a liability would be recognized or cash flows for the period in which amounts would be paid. actual results may significantly vary from our reserves. we are subject to, and could be further subject to, governmental investigations or actions by other third parties. we are subject to various federal, foreign and state laws, including antitrust and product-related laws and regulations, violations of which can involve civil or criminal sanctions. responding to governmental investigations or other actions may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. the impact of these and other investigations and lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. changes in the legal and regulatory environment, including changes in taxes and tariffs, could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. the conduct of our businesses, and the production, distribution, sale, advertising, labeling, safety, transportation and use of many of our products, are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the united states, as well as to foreign laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies in countries in which we operate. these laws and regulations may change, sometimes dramatically, as a result of political, economic or social events. changes in laws, regulations or governmental policy and the related interpretations may alter the environment in which we do business and may impact our results or increase our costs or liabilities. in addition, we incur and will continue to incur capital and other expenditures to comply with various laws and regulations, especially relating to protection of the environment, human health and safety and energy efficiency. these types of costs could adversely affect our financial performance. additionally, we could be subjected to future liabilities, fines or penalties or the suspension of product production for failing to comply with various laws and regulations, including environmental regulations. cleanup obligations that might arise at any of our manufacturing sites or the imposition of more stringent environmental laws in the future could adversely affect us. additionally, as a global company based in the united states, we are exposed to the impact of u.s. tax changes, especially those that affect the effective corporate income tax rate. in addition to the changes recently enacted in the tax cuts and jobs act, the u.s. federal government may propose additional changes to international trade agreements, tariffs, taxes, and other government rules and regulations. at december 31, 2017, the company had not completed its accounting for the tax effects of the enactment of the tax cuts and jobs act; however, in certain cases the company has made a reasonable estimate of the effects on its existing deferred tax balances and impact of the one-time transition tax. the tax expense recognized represents the company's best estimate of the impact of the tax cuts and jobs act. during 2018, the company will continue to refine the calculations related to both provisional amounts as it gains a more thorough understanding of the tax law, and certain aspects of the tax cuts and jobs act are clarified by the taxing authorities. these regulatory changes could significantly impact our business and financial performance. for additional information about our consolidated tax provision, see note 12 to the consolidated financial statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 39 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk we have in place an enterprise risk management process that involves systematic risk identification and mitigation covering the categories of enterprise, strategic, financial, operational and compliance and reporting risks. the enterprise risk management process receives board of directors and management oversight, drives risk mitigation decision-making and is fully integrated into our internal audit planning and execution cycle. we are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, domestic and foreign interest rates, and commodity prices, which can affect our operating results and overall financial condition. we manage exposure to these risks through our operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivatives. derivatives are viewed as risk management tools and are not used for speculation or for trading purposes. derivatives are generally contracted with a diversified group of investment grade counterparties to reduce exposure to nonperformance on such instruments. we use foreign currency forward contracts, currency options, and currency swaps to hedge the price risk associated with firmly committed and forecasted cross-border payments and receipts related to ongoing business and operational financing activities. we also use forward or option contracts to hedge our investment in the net assets of certain international subsidiaries to offset foreign currency translation adjustments related to our net investment in those subsidiaries. foreign currency contracts are sensitive to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. at december 31, 2017 , a 10% favorable or unfavorable exchange rate movement in each currency in our portfolio of foreign currency contracts would have resulted in an incremental unrealized gain of approximately $233 million or loss of approximately $237 million. consistent with the use of these contracts to neutralize the effect of exchange rate fluctuations, such unrealized losses or gains would be offset by corresponding gains or losses, respectively, in the re-measurement of the underlying exposures. we enter into commodity swap contracts to hedge the price risk associated with firmly committed and forecasted commodities purchases, the prices of which are not fixed directly through supply contracts. as of december 31, 2017 , a 10% favorable or unfavorable shift in commodity prices would have resulted in an incremental gain or loss of approximately $27 million, respectively, related to these contracts. 39risk factors 9 whirlpool is a major supplier of laundry, refrigeration, cooking and dishwasher home appliances to lowe's, a north american retailer. net sales attributable to lowe's in 2018, 2017 and 2016, were approximately 12%, 10% and 9%, respectively, of our consolidated net sales. for certain other financial information concerning our business segments and foreign and domestic operations, see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements. for information on our global restructuring plans, and the impact of these plans on our operating segments, see note 13 to the consolidated financial statements. executive officers of the registrant the following table sets forth the names and ages of our executive officers on february 12, 2019 , the positions and offices they held on that date, and the year they first became executive officers: name office first became an executive officer age marc r. bitzer chairman of the board, president and chief executive officer 2006 54 james w. peters executive vice president and chief financial officer 2016 49 jo o c. brega executive vice president and president, whirlpool latin america 2012 55 joseph t. liotine executive vice president and president, whirlpool north america 2014 46 shengpo (samuel) wu executive vice president and president, whirlpool asia 2019 52 the executive officers named above were elected by our board of directors to serve in the office indicated until the first meeting of the board of directors following the annual meeting of stockholders in 2019 and until a successor is chosen and qualified or until the executive officer's earlier resignation or removal. each of our executive officers has held the position set forth in the table above or has served whirlpool in various executive or administrative capacities for at least the past five years, except for mr. wu. prior to joining whirlpool in february 2017, mr. wu for the previous five years served as president and chief executive officer, asia pacific, of osram gmbh, and before joining osram in 2012, worked for honeywell process solutions and general electric in various leadership roles. available information financial results and investor information (including whirlpool's form 10-k, 10-q, and 8-k reports) are accessible at whirlpool's website: investors.whirlpoolcorp.com . copies of our form 10-k, 10-q, and 8-k reports and amendments, if any, are available free of charge through our website on the same day they are filed with, or furnished to, the securities and exchange commission. item 1a. risk factors this report contains statements referring to whirlpool that are not historical facts and are considered "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. these statements, which are intended to take advantage of the "safe harbor" provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995, are based on current projections about operations, industry conditions, financial condition and liquidity. words that identify forward-looking statements include words such as "may," "could," "will," "should," "possible," "plan," "predict," "forecast," "potential," "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "intend," "believe," "may impact," "on track," and words and terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance, an acquisition or merger, or our businesses. in addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections, or other characterizations of future events or circumstances, including any underlying assumptions, are forward-looking 9 statements. those statements are not guarantees and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict. therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from these forward-looking statements. we have listed below what we believe to be the most significant strategic, operational, financial, and legal and compliance risks relating to our business. strategic risks we face intense competition in the major home appliance industry and failure to successfully compete could negatively affect our business and financial performance. each of our operating segments operates in a highly competitive business environment and faces intense competition from a growing number of competitors, many of which have strong consumer brand equity. several of these competitors, such as those set forth in the business section of this annual report, are large, well-established companies, many ranking among the global fortune 150, and have demonstrated a commitment to global success. we also face competition that may be able to quickly adapt to changing consumer preferences, particularly in the connected appliance space. moreover, our customer base includes large, sophisticated trade customers who have many choices and demand competitive products, services and prices. competition in the global appliance industry is based on a number of factors including selling price, product features and design, performance, innovation, reputation, energy efficiency, quality, cost, distribution, and financial incentives, such as promotional funds, sales incentives, volume rebates and terms. many of our competitors are increasingly expanding beyond their existing manufacturing footprints. our competitors, especially global competitors with low-cost sources of supply and/or highly protected home marketplaces outside the united states, have aggressively priced their products and/or introduced new products to increase market share and expand into new geographies. many of our competitors have established and may expand their presence in the rapidly changing retail environment, including the shifting of consumer purchasing practices towards e-commerce and other channels. if we are unable to successfully compete in this highly competitive environment, our business and financial performance could be negatively affected. the loss of, or substantial decline in, sales to any of our key trade customers, major buying groups, and builders could adversely affect our financial performance. we sell to a sophisticated customer base of large trade customers, including lowe's and other large domestic and international trade customers, that have significant leverage as buyers over their suppliers. most of our products are not sold through long-term contracts, allowing trade customers to change volume among suppliers. as the trade customers continue to become larger, they may seek to use their position to improve their profitability by various means, including improved efficiency, lower pricing, and increased promotional programs. if we are unable to meet their demand requirements, our volume growth and financial results could be negatively affected. the loss or substantial decline in volume of sales to our key trade customers, major buying groups, builders, or any other trade customers to which we sell a significant amount of products, could adversely affect our financial performance. additionally, the loss of market share or financial difficulties, including bankruptcy and financial restructuring, by these trade customers could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. failure to maintain our reputation and brand image could negatively impact our business. our brands have worldwide recognition, and our success depends on our ability to maintain and enhance our brand image and reputation. maintaining, promoting and growing our brands depends on our marketing efforts, including advertising and consumer campaigns, as well as product innovation. we could be adversely impacted if we fail to achieve any of these objectives or if, whether or not justified, the reputation or image of our company or any of our brands is tarnished or receives negative publicity. in addition, adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us, or product quality issues, could damage our reputation and brand image, undermine our customers' confidence in us and reduce long-term demand for our products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. 10 in addition, our success in maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, including an ever-increasing reliance on social media and online dissemination of advertising campaigns. inaccurate or negative posts or comments about us on social networking and other websites that spread rapidly through such forums could seriously damage our reputation and brand image. if we do not maintain, extend and expand our brand image, then our product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. an inability to effectively execute and manage our business objectives could adversely affect our financial performance. the highly competitive nature of our industry requires that we effectively execute and manage our business objectives including our global operating platform initiative. our global operating platform initiative aims to reduce costs, expand margins, drive productivity and quality improvements, accelerate our rate of innovation, generate free cash flow and drive shareholder value. an inability to effectively control costs and drive productivity improvements could affect our profitability. in addition, an inability to provide high-quality, innovative products could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our sales, which could negatively affect our revenues and overall financial performance. additionally, our success is dependent on anticipating and appropriately reacting to changes in customer preferences, including the shifting of consumer purchasing practices towards e-commerce and other channels, and on successful new product development, including in the connected appliance space, and process development and product relaunches in response to such changes. our future results and our ability to maintain or improve our competitive position will depend on our capacity to gauge the direction of our key product categories and geographic regions and upon our ability to successfully and timely identify, develop, manufacture, market, and sell new or improved products in these changing environments. our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, services and brands. we consider our intellectual property rights, including patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets, and the licenses we hold, to be a significant part and valuable aspect of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and third party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. our failure to obtain or adequately protect our trademarks, products, new features of our products, or our processes may diminish our competitiveness. we have applied for intellectual property protection in the united states and other jurisdictions with respect to certain innovations and new products, design patents, product features, and processes. we cannot be assured that the u.s. patent and trademark office or any similar authority in other jurisdictions will approve any of our patent applications. additionally, the patents we own could be challenged or invalidated, others could design around our patents or the patents may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage. further, the laws of certain foreign countries in which we do business, or contemplate doing business in the future, do not recognize intellectual property rights or protect them to the same extent as united states law. as a result, these factors could weaken our competitive advantage with respect to our products, services, and brands in foreign jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our financial performance. moreover, while we do not believe that any of our products infringe on enforceable intellectual property rights of third parties, others may assert intellectual property rights that cover some of our technology, brands, products, or services. any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly license agreements or modify our products or services. we also may be subject to significant damages, injunctions against development and sale of certain products or services, or limited in the use of our brands. operational risks we face risks associated with our acquisitions and other investments and risks associated with our increased presence in emerging markets. from time to time, we make strategic acquisitions or divestitures, investments and participate in joint ventures. for example, we acquired indesit and a majority interest in hefei sanyo in the fourth quarter of 2014, and we signed an agreement to sell our embraco compressor business in 2018. these transactions, and other transactions that we have entered into or which we may enter into in the future, can involve significant challenges and risks, including 11 that the transaction does not advance our business strategy or fails to produce a satisfactory return on our investment. we may encounter difficulties in integrating acquisitions with our operations, applying our internal control processes to these acquisitions, managing strategic investments, and in overseeing the operations, systems and controls of acquired companies. for example, in 2017, we recorded an adjustment primarily for trade promotion accruals by our china business, which has been and remains subject to investigation by the relevant chinese governmental authorities. we took certain remedial actions to strengthen internal controls as a result of our review of the conduct and processes involved. integrating acquisitions and carving out divestitures is often costly and may require significant attention from management. furthermore, we may not realize the degree, or timing, of benefits we anticipate when we first enter into a transaction. while our evaluation of any potential transaction includes business, legal and financial due diligence with the goal of identifying and evaluating the material risks involved, our due diligence reviews may not identify all of the issues necessary to accurately estimate the cost and potential loss contingencies of a particular transaction, including potential exposure to regulatory sanctions resulting from an acquisition target's previous activities or costs associated with any quality issues with an acquisition target's legacy products. in addition, liabilities may be retained by whirlpool when closing a facility, divesting an entity or selling physical assets, and such liabilities may be material. our growth plans include efforts to increase revenue from emerging markets, including through acquisitions. local business practices in these countries may not comply with u.s. laws, local laws or other laws applicable to us or our compliance policies, which non-compliant practices may result in increased liability risks. for example, we may incur unanticipated costs, expenses or other liabilities as a result of an acquisition target's violation of applicable laws, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) or similar worldwide anti-bribery laws in non-u.s. jurisdictions. we may incur unanticipated costs or expenses, including post-closing asset impairment charges, expenses associated with eliminating duplicate facilities, litigation, and other liabilities. in addition, our recent and future acquisitions may increase our exposure to other risks associated with operating internationally, including foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; political, legal and economic instability; inflation; changes in tax rates and tax laws; and work stoppages and labor relations. risks associated with our international operations may decrease our revenues and increase our costs. for the year ended december 31 , 2018 , international operations represent approximately 49% of our net sales. we expect that international sales will continue to account for a significant percentage of our net sales. accordingly, we face numerous risks associated with conducting international operations, any of which could negatively affect our financial performance. these risks include the following: political, legal, and economic instability and uncertainty foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations changes in foreign tax rules, regulations and other requirements, such as changes in tax rates and statutory and judicial interpretations of tax laws changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, including sanctions resulting from the current political situation in countries in which we do business inflation and/or deflation changes in foreign country regulatory requirements, including data privacy laws. various import/export restrictions and disruptions and the availability of required import/export licenses imposition of tariffs and other trade barriers managing widespread operations and enforcing internal policies and procedures such as compliance with u.s. and foreign anti-bribery, anti-corruption regulations and anti-money laundering, such as the fcpa, and antitrust laws labor disputes and work stoppages at our operations and suppliers government price controls the inability to collect accounts receivable 12 limitations on the repatriation or movement of earnings and cash as a u.s. corporation, we are subject to the fcpa, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage to foreign companies that are not subject to similar regulations. additionally, any determination that we have violated the fcpa or other anti-corruption laws could have a material adverse effect on us. terrorist attacks, cyber events, armed conflicts, civil unrest, natural disasters, governmental actions and epidemics could affect our domestic and international sales, disrupt our supply chain, and impair our ability to produce and deliver our products. such events could directly impact our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers. we may be subject to information technology system failures, network disruptions, cybersecurity attacks and breaches in data security, which may materially adversely affect our operations, financial condition and operating results. we depend on information technology to improve the effectiveness of our operations and to interface with our customers, consumers and employees, as well as to maintain financial accuracy and efficiency. our business processes and data sharing across functions, suppliers, and vendors is dependent on information technology integration. the failure of any systems, whether internal or third-party, during normal operation, system upgrades, implementations, or connections, could disrupt our operations by causing transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, delays or cancellation of customer orders, the loss of customers, impediments to the manufacture or shipment of products, other financial and business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property and the personally identifiable data of consumers and employees. in addition, we have outsourced certain information technology support services and administrative functions, such as system application maintenance and benefit plan administration, to third-party service providers and may outsource other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. if these service providers do not perform effectively, we may not achieve the expected cost savings and may incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers. depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies or the loss of or damage to intellectual property and personally identifiable information through system compromise, or harm employee morale. our information systems, or those of our third-party service providers, could also be impacted by inappropriate or mistaken activity of parties intent on extracting or corrupting information or disrupting business processes. such unauthorized access could disrupt our business and could result in the loss of assets. cybersecurity attacks are becoming more sophisticated and include malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information, and corruption of data. these events could impact our customers, consumers, employees, third-parties and reputation and lead to financial losses from remediation actions, loss of business or potential liability or an increase in expense, all of which may have a material adverse effect on our business. product-related liability or product recall costs could adversely affect our business and financial performance. we may be exposed to product-related liabilities, which in some instances may result in product redesigns, product recalls, or other corrective action. in addition, any claim, product recall or other corrective action that results in significant adverse publicity, particularly if those claims or recalls cause customers to question the safety or reliability of our products, may negatively affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. we maintain product liability insurance, but it may not be adequate to cover losses related to product liability claims brought against us. product liability insurance could become more expensive and difficult to maintain and may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. we may be involved in class action litigation for which we generally have not purchased insurance, and may be involved in certain other product recalls or other litigations or events for which insurance products may have limitations. 13 we regularly engage in investigations of potential quality and safety issues as part of our ongoing effort to deliver quality products to our customers. we are currently investigating certain potential quality and safety issues, and as appropriate, we undertake to effect repair or replacement of appliances. actual costs of these and any future issues depend upon several factors, including the number of consumers who respond to a particular recall, repair and administrative costs, whether the cost of any corrective action is borne by us or the supplier, and, if borne by us, whether we will be successful in recovering our costs from the supplier. the actual costs incurred as a result of these issues and any future issues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the ability of suppliers to deliver parts, components and manufacturing equipment to our manufacturing facilities, and our ability to manufacture without disruption, could affect our global business performance. we use a wide range of materials and components in the global production of our products, which come from numerous suppliers around the world. because not all of our business arrangements provide for guaranteed supply and some key parts may be available only from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers, we are subject to supply and pricing risk. in addition, certain proprietary component parts used in some of our products are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. we would be unable to obtain these proprietary components for an indeterminate period of time if these single-source suppliers were to cease or interrupt production or otherwise fail to supply these components to us, which could adversely affect our product sales and operating results. our operations and those of our suppliers are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including work stoppages, labor relations, intellectual property claims against suppliers, information technology failures, and hazards such as fire, earthquakes, flooding, or other natural disasters. insurance for certain disruptions may not be available, affordable or adequate. such disruption could interrupt our ability to manufacture certain products. any significant disruption could negatively impact our revenue and/or earnings performance. our ability to attract, develop and retain executives and other qualified employees is crucial to our results of operations and future growth. we depend upon the continued services and performance of our key executives, senior management and skilled personnel, particularly professionals with experience in our business and operations and the home appliance industry. we cannot be sure that any of these individuals will continue to be employed by us. in the case of talent losses, significant time is required to hire, develop and train skilled replacement personnel. an inability to hire, develop, transfer retained knowledge, engage and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees could materially hinder our business by, for example, delaying our ability to bring new products to market or impairing the success of our operations. a deterioration in labor relations could adversely impact our global business. as of december 31 , 2018 , we had approximately 92,000 employees. we are subject to separate collective bargaining agreements with certain labor unions, as well as various other commitments regarding our workforce. we periodically negotiate with certain unions representing our employees and may be subject to work stoppages or may be unable to renew collective bargaining agreements on the same or similar terms, or at all, all of which may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. financial risks fluctuations and volatility in the cost of raw materials and purchased components could adversely affect our operating results. the sources and prices of the primary materials (such as steel, resins, and base metals) used to manufacture our products and components containing those materials are susceptible to significant global and regional price fluctuations due to supply/demand trends, transportation costs, labor costs, government regulations and tariffs, changes in currency exchange rates, price controls, the economic climate, and other unforeseen circumstances. for example, we experienced significant inflation in raw materials and certain manufactured components during 2018, which negatively impacted our operating results. significant increases in these and other costs now and in the future could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. 14 foreign currency fluctuations may affect our financial performance. we generate a significant portion of our revenue and incur a significant portion of our expenses in foreign currencies. changes in the exchange rates of functional currencies of those operations affect the u.s. dollar value of our revenue and earnings from our foreign operations. we use currency forwards, net investment hedges, and options to manage our foreign currency transaction exposures. we cannot completely eliminate our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations, which may adversely affect our financial performance. in addition, because our consolidated financial results are reported in u.s. dollars, if we generate sales or earnings in other currencies, the translation of those results into u.s. dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those sales or earnings. finally, the amount of legal contingencies related to foreign operations may fluctuate significantly based upon changes in exchange rates and usually cannot be managed with currency forwards, options or other arrangements. such fluctuations in exchange rates can significantly increase or decrease the amount of any legal contingency related to our foreign operations and make it difficult to assess and manage the potential exposure. goodwill and indefinite-life intangible asset impairment charges may adversely affect our operating results. we have a substantial amount of goodwill and indefinite-life intangible assets, primarily trademarks, on our balance sheet. we test the goodwill and intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis and when events occur or circumstances change that indicate that the fair value of the reporting unit or intangible asset may be below its carrying amount. fair value determinations require considerable judgment and are sensitive to inherent uncertainties and changes in estimates and assumptions regarding revenue growth rates, ebit margins, capital expenditures, working capital requirements, tax rates, terminal growth rates, discount rates, royalty rates, benefits associated with a taxable transaction and synergistic benefits available to market participants. declines in market conditions, a trend of weaker than anticipated financial performance for our reporting units or declines in projected revenue for our trademarks, a decline in our share price for a sustained period of time, an increase in the market-based weighted average cost of capital or a decrease in royalty rates, among other factors, are indicators that the carrying value of our goodwill or indefinite-life intangible assets may not be recoverable. we may be required to record a goodwill or intangible asset impairment charge that, if incurred, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. impairment of long-lived assets may adversely affect our operating results. our long-lived asset groups are subject to an impairment assessment when certain triggering events or circumstances indicate that their carrying value may be impaired. if the carrying value exceeds our estimate of future undiscounted cash flows of the operations related to the asset group, an impairment is recorded for the difference between the carrying amount and the fair value of the asset group. the results of these tests for potential impairment may be adversely affected by unfavorable market conditions, our financial performance trends, or an increase in interest rates, among other factors. if as a result of the impairment test we determine that the fair value of any of our long-lived asset groups is less than its carrying amount, we may incur an impairment charge that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we face inventory valuation risk. we write down product and component inventories that have become obsolete or do not meet anticipated demand or net realizable value. no assurance can be given that, given the unpredictable pace of product obsolescence and business conditions with trade customers and in general, we will not incur additional inventory related charges. such charges could negatively affect our financial condition and operating results. we are exposed to risks associated with the uncertain global economy. the current domestic and international political and economic environment are posing challenges to the industry in which we operate. a number of economic factors, including gross domestic product, availability of consumer credit, interest rates, consumer sentiment and debt levels, retail trends, housing starts, sales of existing homes, the level of mortgage refinancing and defaults, fiscal and credit market uncertainty, and foreign currency exchange rates, currency controls, inflation and deflation, generally affect demand for our products. 15 economic uncertainty and related factors exacerbate negative trends in business and consumer spending and may cause certain customers to push out, cancel, or refrain from placing orders for our products. uncertain market conditions, difficulties in obtaining capital, or reduced profitability may also cause some customers to scale back operations, exit markets, merge with other retailers, or file for bankruptcy protection and potentially cease operations, which can also result in lower sales and/or additional inventory. these conditions may similarly affect key suppliers, which could impair their ability to deliver parts and result in delays for our products or added costs. in addition, these conditions may lead to strategic alliances by, or consolidation of, other appliance manufacturers, which could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. a decline in economic activity and conditions in certain areas in which we operate have had an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in recent years, and future declines and adverse conditions could have a similar adverse effect. regional, political and economic instability in countries in which we do business may adversely affect business conditions, disrupt our operations, and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. uncertainty about future economic and industry conditions also makes it more challenging for us to forecast our operating results, make business decisions, and identify and prioritize the risks that may affect our businesses, sources and uses of cash, financial condition and results of operations. we may be required to implement additional cost reduction efforts, including restructuring activities, which may adversely affect our ability to capitalize on opportunities in a market recovery. in addition, our operations are subject to general credit, liquidity, foreign exchange, market and interest rate risks. our ability to invest in our businesses, fund strategic acquisitions and refinance maturing debt obligations depends in part on access to the capital markets. if we do not timely and appropriately adapt to changes resulting from the uncertain macroeconomic environment and industry conditions, or to difficulties in the financial markets, or if we are unable to continue to access the capital markets, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. significant differences between actual results and estimates of the amount of future funding for our pension plans and postretirement health care benefit programs, and significant changes in funding assumptions or significant increases in funding obligations due to regulatory changes, could adversely affect our financial results. we have both funded and unfunded defined benefit pension plans that cover certain employees around the world. we also have unfunded postretirement health care benefit plans for eligible retired employees. the employee retirement income security act of 1974 (erisa) and the internal revenue code, as amended, govern the funding obligations for our u.s. pension plans, which are our principal pension plans. our u.s. defined benefit plans were frozen on or before december 31, 2006 for substantially all participants. since 2007, u.s. employees have been eligible for an enhanced employer contribution under whirlpool's defined contribution (401(k)) plan. as of december 31 , 2018 , our projected benefit obligations under our pension plans and postretirement health and welfare benefit programs exceeded the fair value of plan assets by an aggregate of approximately $1.0 billion , including $0.6 billion of which was attributable to pension plans and $0.4 billion of which was attributable to postretirement health care benefits. estimates for the amount and timing of the future funding obligations of these pension plans and postretirement health and welfare benefit plans are based on various assumptions. these assumptions include discount rates, expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, life expectancies and health care cost trend rates. these assumptions are subject to change based on changes in interest rates on high quality bonds, stock and bond market returns, health care cost trend rates and regulatory changes, all of which are largely outside our control. significant differences in results or significant changes in assumptions may materially affect our postretirement obligations and related future contributions and expenses. legal &amp; compliance risks unfavorable results of legal and regulatory proceedings could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition and performance. we are subject to a variety of litigation and legal compliance risks relating to, among other things: products; intellectual property rights; income and non income taxes; environmental matters; corporate matters; commercial matters; credit matters; competition laws; distribution, marketing and trade practice matters; anti bribery and anti corruption regulations; energy regulations; financial regulations; and employment and benefit matters. for example, we are currently disputing certain income and non-income tax related assessments issued by brazilian authorities (see note 7 and note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on these matters). unfavorable outcomes regarding these assessments could have a material adverse effect on our financial 16 statements in any particular reporting period. results of legal and regulatory proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty and for some matters, such as class actions, no insurance is cost effectively available. regardless of merit, legal and regulatory proceedings may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. such proceedings could also generate significant adverse publicity and have a negative impact on our reputation and brand image, regardless of the existence or amount of liability. we estimate loss contingencies and establish accruals as required by generally accepted accounting principles, based on our assessment of contingencies where liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable, in light of the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time. subsequent developments in legal proceedings, volatility in foreign currency exchange rates and other factors may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded and could result in an adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which a liability would be recognized or cash flows for the period in which amounts would be paid. actual results may significantly vary from our reserves. we are subject to, and could be further subject to, governmental investigations or actions by other third parties. we are subject to various federal, foreign and state laws, including antitrust and product-related laws and regulations, violations of which can involve civil or criminal sanctions. responding to governmental investigations or other actions may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. the impact of these and other investigations and lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. changes in the legal and regulatory environment, including changes in taxes and tariffs, could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. the conduct of our businesses, and the production, distribution, sale, advertising, labeling, safety, transportation and use of many of our products, are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the united states, as well as to foreign laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies in countries in which we operate. these laws and regulations may change, sometimes dramatically, as a result of political, economic or social events. changes in laws, regulations or governmental policy and the related interpretations may alter the environment in which we do business and may impact our results or increase our costs or liabilities. in addition, we incur and will continue to incur capital and other expenditures to comply with various laws and regulations, especially relating to the protection of the environment, human health and safety and energy efficiency. these types of costs could adversely affect our financial performance. additionally, we could be subjected to future liabilities, fines or penalties or the suspension of product production for failing to comply with various laws and regulations, including environmental regulations. cleanup obligations that might arise at any of our manufacturing sites or the imposition of more stringent environmental laws in the future could also adversely affect us. additionally, as a global company based in the united states, we are exposed to the impact of u.s. tax changes, especially those that affect the effective corporate income tax rate, including the recently enacted tax cuts and jobs act. in addition, the current domestic and international political environment, including government shutdowns and changes to u.s. policies related to global trade and tariffs, has resulted in uncertainty surrounding the future state of the global economy. the u.s. federal government may propose additional changes to international trade agreements, tariffs, taxes, and other government rules and regulations. these regulatory changes could significantly impact our business and financial performance. for additional information about our consolidated tax provision, see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements, and for additional information about global trade and tariffs, please see "other matters" in the management's discussion and analysis section of this annual report on form 10-k. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 43 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk we have in place an enterprise risk management process that involves systematic risk identification and mitigation covering the categories of enterprise, strategic, financial, operational and compliance and reporting risks. the enterprise risk management process receives board of directors and management oversight, drives risk mitigation decision-making and is fully integrated into our internal audit planning and execution cycle. we are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, domestic and foreign interest rates, and commodity prices, which can affect our operating results and overall financial condition. we manage exposure to these risks through our operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivatives. derivatives are viewed as risk management tools and are not used for speculation or for trading purposes. derivatives are generally contracted with a diversified group of investment grade counterparties to reduce exposure to nonperformance on such instruments. we use foreign currency forward contracts, currency options, and currency swaps to hedge the price risk associated with firmly committed and forecasted cross-border payments and receipts related to ongoing business and operational financing activities. we also use forward or option contracts to hedge our investment in the net assets of certain international subsidiaries to offset foreign currency translation adjustments related to our net investment in those subsidiaries. foreign currency contracts are sensitive to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. at december 31, 2018 , a 10% favorable or unfavorable exchange rate movement in each currency in our portfolio of foreign currency contracts would have resulted in an incremental unrealized gain of approximately $234 million or loss of approximately $241 million, respectively. consistent with the use of these contracts to neutralize the effect of exchange rate fluctuations, such unrealized losses or gains would be offset by corresponding gains or losses, respectively, in the re-measurement of the underlying exposures. we enter into commodity swap contracts to hedge the price risk associated with firmly committed and forecasted commodities purchases, the prices of which are not fixed directly through supply contracts. as of december 31, 2018 , a 10% favorable or unfavorable shift in commodity prices would have resulted in an incremental gain or loss of approximately $21 million, respectively, related to these contracts. 43risk factors 10 whirlpool is a major supplier of laundry, refrigeration, cooking and dishwasher home appliances to lowe's, a north american retailer. net sales attributable to lowe's in 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , were approximately 13%, 12% and 10% , respectively, of our consolidated net sales. lowe's also represented approximately 14% of our consolidated accounts receivable as of december 31, 2019 . the company did not have any customer with accounts receivable of more than 10% of consolidated accounts receivable as of december 31, 2018 . see note 16 to the consolidated financial statements. for information on our global restructuring plans, and the impact of these plans on our operating segments, see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. information about our executive officers the following table sets forth the names and ages of our executive officers on february 11, 2020 , the positions and offices they held on that date, and the year they first became executive officers: name office first became an executive officer age marc r. bitzer chairman of the board, president and chief executive officer 2006 55 james w. peters executive vice president and chief financial officer 2016 50 jo o c. brega executive vice president and president, whirlpool latin america 2012 56 joseph t. liotine executive vice president and president, whirlpool north america 2014 47 gilles morel executive vice president and president, whirlpool europe, middle east &amp; africa 2019 54 shengpo (samuel) wu executive vice president and president, whirlpool asia 2019 53 the executive officers named above were elected by our board of directors to serve in the office indicated until the first meeting of the board of directors following the annual meeting of stockholders in 2020 and until a successor is chosen and qualified or until the executive officer's earlier resignation or removal. each of our executive officers has held the position set forth in the table above or has served whirlpool in various executive or administrative capacities for at least the past five years, except for mr. wu and mr. morel. prior to joining whirlpool in february 2017, mr. wu for the previous five years served as president and chief executive officer, asia pacific, of osram gmbh, and before 9 joining osram in 2012, worked for honeywell process solutions and general electric in various leadership roles. prior to joining whirlpool in april 2019, mr. morel served for two years as ceo of northern and central europe for groupe savencia. prior to that, he worked for 27 years at mars inc. in various leadership positions, most recently as regional president, europe &amp; eurasia for mars chocolate. available information financial results and investor information (including whirlpool's form 10-k, 10-q, and 8-k reports) are accessible at whirlpool's website: investors.whirlpoolcorp.com . copies of our form 10-k, 10-q, and 8-k reports and amendments, if any, are available free of charge through our website on the same day they are filed with, or furnished to, the securities and exchange commission. we routinely post important information for investors on our website, whirlpoolcorp.com, in the "investors" section. we also intend to update the hot topics q&amp;a portion of this webpage as a means of disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under regulation fd. accordingly, investors should monitor the investors section of our website, in addition to following our press releases, sec filings, public conference calls, presentations and webcasts. the information contained on, or that may be accessed through, our webpage is not incorporated by reference into, and is not a part of, this document. item 1a. risk factors this report contains statements referring to whirlpool that are not historical facts and are considered "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. these statements, which are intended to take advantage of the "safe harbor" provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995, are based on current projections about operations, industry conditions, financial condition and liquidity. words that identify forward-looking statements include words such as "may," "could," "will," "should," "possible," "plan," "predict," "forecast," "potential," "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "intend," "believe," "may impact," "on track," and words and terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance, an acquisition or merger, or our businesses. in addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections, or other characterizations of future events or circumstances, including any underlying assumptions, are forward-looking statements. those statements are not guarantees and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict. therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from these forward-looking statements. we have listed below what we believe to be the most significant strategic, operational, financial, and legal and compliance risks relating to our business. strategic risks we face intense competition in the major home appliance industry and failure to successfully compete could negatively affect our business and financial performance. each of our operating segments operates in a highly competitive business environment and faces intense competition from a growing number of competitors, many of which have strong consumer brand equity. several of these competitors, such as those set forth in the business section of this annual report, are large, well-established companies, ranking among the global fortune 150. we also face competition that may be able to quickly adapt to changing consumer preferences, particularly in the connected appliance space. moreover, our customer base includes large, sophisticated trade customers who have many choices and demand competitive products, services and prices, and which may in the future merge, consolidate, form alliances or further increase their relative purchasing scale. competition in the global appliance industry is based on a number of factors including selling price, product features and design, consumer taste, performance, innovation, reputation, energy efficiency, service, quality, cost, distribution, and financial incentives, such as promotional funds, sales incentives, volume rebates and terms. many of our competitors are increasingly expanding beyond their existing manufacturing footprints. our competitors, especially global competitors with low-cost sources of supply and/or highly protected home countries outside the united states, have aggressively priced their products and/or introduced new products to increase market share and expand into new geographies. many of our competitors have established and may expand their presence in the rapidly changing retail environment, including the shifting of consumer purchasing practices towards e-commerce 10 and other channels, and the introduction of direct-to-consumer sales models. if we are unable to successfully compete in this highly competitive environment, our business and financial performance could be negatively affected. the loss of, or substantial decline in, volume of sales to any of our key trade customers, major buying groups, and/or builders could adversely affect our financial performance. we sell to a sophisticated customer base of large trade customers, including lowe's and other large domestic and international trade customers, that have significant leverage as buyers over their suppliers. most of our products are not sold through long-term contracts, allowing trade customers to change volume among suppliers. as the trade customers continue to become larger through merger, consolidation or organic growth, they may seek to use their position to improve their profitability by various means, including improved efficiency, lower pricing, and increased promotional programs. if we are unable to meet their demand requirements, our volume growth and financial results could be negatively affected. we also continue to pursue direct-to-consumer sales in the u.s. and certain other countries, which may impact our relationships with existing trade customers. the loss or substantial decline in volume of sales to our key trade customers, major buying groups, builders, or any other trade customers to which we sell a significant amount of products, could adversely affect our financial performance. additionally, the loss of market share or financial difficulties, including bankruptcy and financial restructuring, by these trade customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial statements. failure to maintain our reputation and brand image could negatively impact our business. our brands have worldwide recognition, and our success depends on our ability to maintain and enhance our brand image and reputation. maintaining, promoting and growing our brands depends on our marketing efforts, including advertising and consumer campaigns, as well as product innovation. we could be adversely impacted if we fail to achieve any of these objectives or if, whether or not justified, the reputation or image of our company or any of our brands is tarnished or receives negative publicity. in addition, adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us, product safety, data privacy breaches or quality issues, or negative association with any one brand could damage our reputation and brand image, undermine our customers' confidence in us and reduce long-term demand for our products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. in addition, our success in maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, including an ever-increasing reliance on social media and online dissemination of advertising campaigns. inaccurate or negative posts or comments about us on social networking and other websites that spread rapidly through such forums could seriously damage our reputation and brand image. if we do not maintain, extend and expand our brand image, then our financial statements could be materially and adversely affected. an inability to effectively execute and manage our business objectives could adversely affect our financial performance. the highly competitive nature of our industry requires that we effectively execute and manage our business objectives including our global operating platform initiative. our global operating platform initiative aims to reduce costs, expand margins, drive productivity and quality improvements, accelerate our rate of innovation, generate free cash flow and drive shareholder value. an inability to effectively control costs and drive productivity improvements could affect our profitability. in addition, an inability to provide high-quality, innovative products could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our sales, which could negatively affect our revenues and overall financial performance. additionally, our success is dependent on anticipating and appropriately reacting to changes in customer preferences, including the shifting of consumer purchasing practices towards e-commerce, direct-to-consumer and other channels, and on successful new product development, including in the connected appliance space, and process development and product relaunches in response to such changes. our future results and our ability to maintain or improve our competitive position will depend on our capacity to gauge the direction of our key product categories and geographic regions and upon our ability to successfully and timely identify, develop, manufacture, market, and sell new or improved products in these changing environments. 11 our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, services and brands. we consider our intellectual property rights, including patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets, and the licenses we hold, to be a significant part and valuable aspect of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and third party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. our failure to obtain protection for or adequately protect our trademarks, products, new features of our products, or our processes may diminish our competitiveness. we have applied for intellectual property protection in the united states and other jurisdictions with respect to certain innovations and new products, design patents, product features, and processes. we cannot be assured that the u.s. patent and trademark office or any similar authority in other jurisdictions will approve any of our patent applications. additionally, the patents we own could be challenged or invalidated, others could design around our patents or the patents may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage. further, the laws of certain foreign countries in which we do business, or contemplate doing business in the future, do not recognize intellectual property rights or protect them to the same extent as united states law. as a result, these factors could weaken our competitive advantage with respect to our products, services, and brands in foreign jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our financial performance. moreover, while we do not believe that any of our products infringe on enforceable intellectual property rights of third parties, others may assert intellectual property rights that cover some of our technology, brands, products, or services. any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly license agreements or modify our products or services. we also may be subject to significant damages, injunctions against development and sale of certain products or services, or limited in the use of our brands. operational risks we face risks associated with our acquisitions and other investments and risks associated with our increased presence in emerging markets. from time to time, we make strategic acquisitions or divestitures, investments and participate in joint ventures. for example, we acquired indesit and a majority interest in hefei sanyo in 2014, and we sold our embraco compressor business in 2019. these transactions, and other transactions that we have entered into or which we may enter into in the future, can involve significant challenges and risks, including that the transaction does not advance our business strategy or fails to produce a satisfactory return on our investment. we may encounter difficulties in integrating acquisitions with our operations, applying our internal control processes to these acquisitions, managing strategic investments, and in overseeing the operations, systems and controls of acquired companies. integrating acquisitions and carving out divestitures is often costly and may require significant attention from management. furthermore, we may not realize the degree, or timing, of benefits we anticipate when we first enter into a transaction. while our evaluation of any potential transaction includes business, legal and financial due diligence with the goal of identifying and evaluating the material risks involved, our due diligence reviews may not identify all of the issues necessary to accurately estimate the cost and potential loss contingencies of a particular transaction, including potential exposure to regulatory sanctions resulting from an acquisition target's previous activities or costs associated with any quality issues with an acquisition target's legacy products. in addition, liabilities may be retained by whirlpool when closing a facility, divesting an entity or selling physical assets, and such liabilities may be material. our growth plans include efforts to increase revenue from emerging markets, including through acquisitions. local business practices in these countries may not comply with u.s. laws, local laws or other laws applicable to us or our compliance policies, which non-compliant practices may result in increased liability risks. for example, we may incur unanticipated costs, expenses or other liabilities as a result of an acquisition target's violation of applicable laws, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) or similar worldwide anti-bribery laws in non-u.s. jurisdictions. we may incur unanticipated costs or expenses, including post-closing asset impairment charges, expenses associated with eliminating duplicate facilities, litigation, and other liabilities. in addition, our recent and future acquisitions may increase our exposure to other risks associated with operating internationally, including foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; political, legal and economic instability; inflation; changes in tax rates and tax laws; and work stoppages and labor relations. 12 risks associated with our international operations may decrease our revenues and increase our costs. for the year ended december 31 , 2019 , sales outside our north america region represent approximately 44% of our net sales. we expect that international sales will continue to account for a significant percentage of our net sales. accordingly, we face numerous risks associated with conducting international operations, any of which could negatively affect our financial performance. these risks include the following: political, legal, and economic instability and uncertainty foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations changes in foreign tax rules, regulations and other requirements, such as changes in tax rates and statutory and judicial interpretations of tax laws changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, including sanctions resulting from the current political situation in countries in which we do business inflation and/or deflation changes in foreign country regulatory requirements, including data privacy laws various import/export restrictions and disruptions and the availability of required import/export licenses imposition of tariffs and other trade barriers managing widespread operations and enforcing internal policies and procedures such as compliance with u.s. and foreign anti-bribery, anti-corruption regulations and anti-money laundering, such as the fcpa, and antitrust laws labor disputes and work stoppages at our operations and suppliers government price controls trade customer insolvency and the inability to collect accounts receivable limitations on the repatriation or movement of earnings and cash as a u.s. corporation, we are subject to the fcpa, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage to foreign companies that are not subject to similar regulations. additionally, any determination that we have violated the fcpa or other anti-corruption laws could have a material adverse effect on us. terrorist attacks, cyber events, armed conflicts, civil unrest, natural disasters, governmental actions and epidemics (including but not limited to the recent coronavirus outbreak originating in china) could affect our domestic and international sales, disrupt our supply chain, and impair our ability to produce and deliver our products. such events could directly impact our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers. we may be subject to information technology system failures, network disruptions, cybersecurity attacks and breaches in data security, which may materially adversely affect our operations, financial condition and operating results. we depend on information technology to improve the effectiveness of our operations and to interface with our customers, consumers and employees, as well as to maintain financial accuracy and efficiency. in addition, we collect, store, have access to and otherwise process certain confidential or sensitive data, including proprietary business information, personal data or other information that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations and/or customer-imposed controls. our business processes and data sharing across functions, suppliers, and vendors is dependent on information technology integration. the failure of any systems, whether internal or third-party, during normal operation, system upgrades, implementations, or connections, could disrupt our operations by causing transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, delays or cancellation of customer orders, the loss of customers, impediments to the manufacture or shipment of products, other financial and business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property and the personally identifiable data of consumers and employees. 13 in addition, we have outsourced certain information technology support services and administrative functions, such as system application maintenance and certain benefit plan administration functions, to third-party service providers and may outsource other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. if these service providers do not perform effectively, we may not achieve the expected cost savings and may incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers. depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies or the loss of or damage to intellectual property and personally identifiable information through system compromise, or harm employee morale. our information systems, or those of our third-party service providers, have been in the past and could be in the future impacted by inappropriate or mistaken activity of parties intent on extracting or corrupting information or disrupting business processes. such unauthorized access could disrupt our business and could result in the loss of assets. cyber attacks are becoming more sophisticated and include malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information, and corruption of data. our growth in the areas of connected appliances and the "internet of things" has increased these risks. these events could impact our customers, consumers, employees, third-parties and reputation and lead to financial losses from remediation actions, loss of business or potential liability or an increase in expense, all of which may have a material adverse effect on our financial statements. product-related liability or product recall costs could adversely affect our business and financial performance. we have been and may be exposed to product-related liabilities, which in some instances may result in product redesigns, product recalls, or other corrective action. in addition, any claim, product recall or other corrective action that results in significant adverse publicity, particularly if those claims or recalls cause customers to question the safety or reliability of our products, may negatively affect our financial statements. we maintain product liability insurance, but it may not be adequate to cover losses related to product liability claims brought against us. product liability insurance could become more expensive and difficult to maintain and may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. we may be involved in class action litigation for which we generally have not purchased insurance, and may be involved in certain other product recalls or other litigations or events for which insurance products may have limitations. we regularly engage in investigations of potential quality and safety issues as part of our ongoing effort to deliver quality products to our customers. we are currently investigating certain potential quality and safety issues globally, and as appropriate, we undertake to effect repair or replacement of appliances in the event that an investigation leads to the conclusion that such action is warranted. actual costs of these and any future issues depend upon several factors, including the number of consumers who respond to a particular recall, repair and administrative costs, whether the cost of any corrective action is borne by us or the supplier, and, if borne by us, whether we will be successful in recovering our costs from the supplier. the actual costs incurred as a result of these issues and any future issues could have a material adverse effect on our financial statements. the ability of suppliers to deliver parts, components and manufacturing equipment to our manufacturing facilities, and our ability to manufacture without disruption, could affect our global business performance. we use a wide range of materials and components in the global production of our products, which come from numerous suppliers around the world. because not all of our business arrangements provide for guaranteed supply and some key parts may be available only from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers, we are subject to supply and pricing risk. in addition, certain proprietary component parts used in some of our products are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. we would be unable to obtain these proprietary components for an indeterminate period of time if these single-source suppliers were to cease or interrupt production or otherwise fail to supply these components to us, which could adversely affect our product sales and operating results. our operations and those of our suppliers are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including work stoppages, labor relations, intellectual property claims against suppliers, financial issues such as supplier bankruptcy, information technology failures, and hazards such as fire, earthquakes, flooding, or other natural disasters. insurance for certain disruptions may not be available, affordable or adequate. such disruption could interrupt our ability to manufacture certain products. any significant disruption could negatively impact our financial statements. 14 our ability to attract, develop and retain executives and other qualified employees is crucial to our results of operations and future growth. we depend upon the continued services and performance of our key executives, senior management and skilled personnel, particularly professionals with experience in our business and operations and the home appliance industry. we cannot be sure that any of these individuals will continue to be employed by us. in the case of talent losses, significant time is required to hire, develop and train skilled replacement personnel. an inability to hire, develop, transfer retained knowledge, engage and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees could materially hinder our business by, for example, delaying our ability to bring new products to market or impairing the success of our operations. a deterioration in labor relations could adversely impact our global business. as of december 31 , 2019 , we had approximately 77,000 employees. we are subject to separate collective bargaining agreements with certain labor unions, as well as various other commitments regarding our workforce. we periodically negotiate with certain unions representing our employees and may be subject to work stoppages or may be unable to renew collective bargaining agreements on the same or similar terms, or at all. in addition, our global restructuring activities have in the past and may in the future be received negatively by governments and unions, and may attract negative media attention, which may delay the implementation of such plans. a deterioration in labor relations may have a material adverse effect on our financial statements. financial risks fluctuations and volatility in the cost of raw materials and purchased components could adversely affect our operating results. the sources and prices of the primary materials (such as steel, resins, and base metals) used to manufacture our products and components containing those materials are susceptible to significant global and regional price fluctuations due to supply/demand trends, transportation costs, labor costs, government regulations and tariffs, changes in currency exchange rates, price controls, the economic climate, and other unforeseen circumstances. for example, we experienced continued inflation in raw materials and certain manufactured components during 2019, which negatively impacted our operating results. in addition, we enter into commodity swap contracts to hedge the price risk associated with certain commodities purchases. significant increases in materials costs and other costs now and in the future could have a material adverse effect on our financial statements. foreign currency fluctuations may affect our financial performance. we generate a significant portion of our revenue and incur a significant portion of our expenses in foreign currencies. changes in the exchange rates of functional currencies of those operations affect the u.s. dollar value of our revenue and earnings from our foreign operations. we use currency forwards, net investment hedges, and options to manage our foreign currency transaction exposures. we cannot completely eliminate our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations, which may adversely affect our financial performance. in addition, because our consolidated financial results are reported in u.s. dollars, if we generate sales or earnings in other currencies, the translation of those results into u.s. dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those sales or earnings. finally, the amount of legal contingencies related to foreign operations may fluctuate significantly based upon changes in exchange rates and usually cannot be managed with currency forwards, options or other arrangements. such fluctuations in exchange rates can significantly increase or decrease the amount of any legal contingency related to our foreign operations and make it difficult to assess and manage the potential exposure. goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment charges may adversely affect our operating results. we have a substantial amount of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, primarily trademarks, on our balance sheet. we test the goodwill and intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis and when events occur or circumstances change that indicate that the fair value of the reporting unit or intangible asset may be below its carrying amount. fair value determinations require considerable judgment and are sensitive to inherent uncertainties and changes in estimates and assumptions regarding revenue growth rates, ebit margins, capital expenditures, working capital requirements, tax rates, terminal growth rates, discount rates, royalty rates, benefits associated with a taxable transaction and synergies available to market participants. declines in market conditions, a trend of weaker 15 than anticipated financial performance for our reporting units or declines in projected revenue for our trademarks, a decline in our share price for a sustained period of time, an increase in the market-based weighted average cost of capital or a decrease in royalty rates, among other factors, are indicators that the carrying value of our goodwill or indefinite-life intangible assets may not be recoverable. we may be required to record a goodwill or intangible asset impairment charge that, if incurred, could have a material adverse effect on our financial statements. impairment of long-lived assets may adversely affect our operating results. our long-lived asset groups are subject to an impairment assessment when certain triggering events or circumstances indicate that their carrying value may be impaired. if the carrying value exceeds our estimate of future undiscounted cash flows of the operations related to the asset group, an impairment is recorded for the difference between the carrying amount and the fair value of the asset group. the results of these tests for potential impairment may be adversely affected by unfavorable market conditions, our financial performance trends, or an increase in interest rates, among other factors. if as a result of the impairment test we determine that the fair value of any of our long-lived asset groups is less than its carrying amount, we may incur an impairment charge that could have a material adverse effect on our financial statements. we face inventory valuation risk. we write down product and component inventories that have become obsolete or do not meet anticipated demand or net realizable value. no assurance can be given that, given the unpredictable pace of product obsolescence and business conditions with trade customers and in general, we will not incur additional inventory related charges. such charges could negatively affect our financial statements. we are exposed to risks associated with the uncertain global economy. the current domestic and international political and economic environment are posing challenges to the industry in which we operate. a number of economic factors, including gross domestic product, availability of consumer credit, interest rates, consumer sentiment and debt levels, retail trends, housing starts, sales of existing homes, the level of mortgage refinancing and defaults, fiscal and credit market uncertainty, and foreign currency exchange rates, currency controls, inflation and deflation, generally affect demand for our products in the u.s. and other countries which we operate. economic uncertainty and related factors exacerbate negative trends in business and consumer spending and may cause certain customers to push out, cancel, or refrain from placing orders for our products. uncertain market conditions, difficulties in obtaining capital, or reduced profitability may also cause some customers to scale back operations, exit markets, merge with other retailers, or file for bankruptcy protection and potentially cease operations, which can also result in lower sales and/or additional inventory. these conditions may similarly affect key suppliers, which could impair their ability to deliver parts and result in delays for our products or added costs. in addition, these conditions may lead to strategic alliances by, or consolidation of, other appliance manufacturers, which could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. a decline in economic activity and conditions in certain areas in which we operate have had an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in recent years, and future declines and adverse conditions could have a similar adverse effect. regional, political and economic instability in countries in which we do business may adversely affect business conditions, disrupt our operations, and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. for example, the effect of the uk's exit from the european union, or brexit, remains unclear and could adversely impact certain areas of our business, including, but not limited to, an increase in duties and delays in the delivery of products, and adverse impacts to our suppliers and financing institutions. uncertainty about future economic and industry conditions also makes it more challenging for us to forecast our operating results, make business decisions, and identify and prioritize the risks that may affect our businesses, sources and uses of cash, financial condition and results of operations. we may be required to implement additional cost reduction efforts, including restructuring activities, which may adversely affect our ability to capitalize on opportunities in a market recovery. in addition, our operations are subject to general credit, liquidity, foreign exchange, market and interest rate risks. our ability to invest in our businesses, fund strategic acquisitions and refinance maturing debt obligations depends in part on access to the capital markets. 16 if we do not timely and appropriately adapt to changes resulting from the uncertain macroeconomic environment and industry conditions, or to difficulties in the financial markets, or if we are unable to continue to access the capital markets, our financial statements may be materially and adversely affected. significant differences between actual results and estimates of the amount of future funding for our pension plans and postretirement health care benefit programs, and significant changes in funding assumptions or significant increases in funding obligations due to regulatory changes, could adversely affect our financial results. we have both funded and unfunded defined benefit pension plans that cover certain employees around the world. we also have unfunded postretirement health care benefit plans for eligible retired employees. the employee retirement income security act of 1974 (erisa) and the internal revenue code, as amended, govern the funding obligations for our u.s. pension plans, which are our principal pension plans. our u.s. defined benefit plans were frozen on or before december 31, 2006 for substantially all participants. since 2007, u.s. employees have been eligible for an enhanced employer contribution under whirlpool's defined contribution (401(k)) plan. as of december 31 , 2019 , our projected benefit obligations under our pension plans and postretirement health and welfare benefit programs exceeded the fair value of plan assets by an aggregate of approximately $0.9 billion, including $0.5 billion of which was attributable to pension plans and $0.4 billion of which was attributable to postretirement health care benefits. estimates for the amount and timing of the future funding obligations of these pension plans and postretirement health and welfare benefit plans are based on various assumptions, including discount rates, expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, life expectancies and health care cost trend rates. these assumptions are subject to change based on changes in interest rates on high quality bonds, stock and bond market returns, health care cost trend rates and regulatory changes, all of which are largely outside our control. significant differences in results or significant changes in assumptions may materially affect our postretirement obligations and related future contributions and expenses. changes in the method of determining the london interbank offered rate, or libor, or the replacement of libor with an alternative reference rate, may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. certain of our financial obligations and instruments are or may be made at variable interest rates that use libor (or metrics derived from or related to libor) as a benchmark. on july 27, 2017, the united kingdom's financial conduct authority announced that it intends to stop persuading or compelling banks to submit libor rates after 2021. it is expected that most, if not all, banks currently reporting information to set libor will stop doing so at such time, which could either cause libor publication to stop immediately or cause libor's regulator to announce the discontinuation of its publication (and, during any such transition period, libor may perform differently than in the past). these reforms may also result in new methods of calculating libor to be established, or alternative reference rates to be established. for example, in the u.s., a group convened by the federal reserve board and the federal reserve bank of new york, called the alternative reference rate committee ("arrc") and comprised of a diverse set of private sector entities, has identified the secured overnight financing rate (or "sofr") as its preferred alternative rate for the u.s. libor and the federal reserve bank of new york has begun publishing sofr daily, and central banks in several other jurisdictions have also announced plans for alternative reference rates for other currencies. the potential consequences of these changes cannot be fully predicted and could have an adverse impact on the market value for libor-linked securities, loans, and other financial obligations or extensions of credit held by or due to us, and could adversely affect our financial statements. changes in market interest rates may influence our financing costs, returns on financial investments and the valuation of derivative contracts and could reduce our earnings and cash flows. in addition, any transaction process may involve, among other things, increased volatility or illiquidity in markets for instruments that rely on libor, reductions in the value of certain instruments, mismatches between rates in hedging documentation and in the documentation for the underlying obligation being hedged, increased borrowing costs, uncertainty under applicable documentation, and/or difficult and costly consent processes. 17 legal &amp; compliance risks unfavorable results of legal and regulatory proceedings could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition and performance. we are subject to a variety of litigation and legal compliance risks relating to, among other things: products; intellectual property rights; income and indirect taxes; environmental matters; corporate matters; commercial matters; credit matters; competition laws; distribution, marketing and trade practice matters; anti bribery and anti corruption regulations; energy regulations; data privacy regulations; financial regulations; and employment and benefit matters. for example, we are currently disputing certain income and indirect tax related assessments issued by the brazilian authorities (see note 8 and note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on these matters). unfavorable outcomes regarding these assessments could have a material adverse effect on our financial statements in any particular reporting period. results of legal and regulatory proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty and for some matters, such as class actions, no insurance is cost-effectively available. regardless of merit, legal and regulatory proceedings may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. such proceedings could also generate significant adverse publicity and have a negative impact on our reputation and brand image, regardless of the existence or amount of liability. we estimate loss contingencies and establish accruals as required by generally accepted accounting principles, based on our assessment of contingencies where liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable, in light of the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time. subsequent developments in legal proceedings, volatility in foreign currency exchange rates and other factors may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded and could result in an adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which a liability would be recognized or cash flows for the period in which amounts would be paid. actual results may significantly vary from our reserves. we are subject to, and could be further subject to, governmental investigations or actions by other third parties. we are subject to various federal, foreign and state laws, including antitrust and product-related laws and regulations, violations of which can involve civil or criminal sanctions. responding to governmental investigations or other actions may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. the impact of these and other investigations and lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our financial statements. changes in the legal and regulatory environment, including data privacy, potential climate regulations and changes in taxes and tariffs, could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. the conduct of our businesses, and the production, distribution, sale, advertising, labeling, safety, transportation and use of many of our products, are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the united states, as well as to foreign laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies in countries in which we operate. in addition, we operate in an environment in which there are different and potentially conflicting data privacy and data access laws in effect in the various u.s. states and foreign jurisdictions in which we operate and we must understand and comply with each law and standard in each of these jurisdictions while ensuring the data is secure. these laws and regulations may change, sometimes dramatically, as a result of political, economic or social events. changes in laws, regulations or governmental policy and the related interpretations may alter the environment in which we do business and may impact our results or increase our costs or liabilities. in addition, we incur and will continue to incur capital and other expenditures to comply with various laws and regulations, especially relating to the protection of the environment, human health and safety, and water and energy efficiency. climate change regulations at the federal, state or local level or in international jurisdictions could require us to limit emissions, change our manufacturing processes or product offerings, or undertake other costly activities. there is also increased focus by governmental and non-governmental entities on sustainability matters. we have set rigorous science-based targets for greenhouse gas reductions and related sustainability goals, and any failure to achieve our sustainability goals or reduce our impact on the environment, any changes in the scientific or governmental metrics utilized to objectively measure success, or the perception that we have failed to act responsibly regarding climate change could result in negative publicity and adversely affect our business and reputation. 18 additionally, we could be subjected to future liabilities, fines or penalties or the suspension of product production for failing to comply with various laws and regulations, including environmental regulations. cleanup obligations that might arise at any of our manufacturing sites or the imposition of more stringent environmental laws in the future could also adversely affect us. additionally, as a global company based in the united states, we are exposed to the impact of u.s. tax changes, especially those that affect the effective corporate income tax rate. in addition, the current domestic and international political environment, including government shutdowns and changes to u.s. policies related to global trade and tariffs, has resulted in uncertainty surrounding the future state of the global economy. the u.s. federal government may propose additional changes to international trade agreements, tariffs, taxes, and other government rules and regulations. these regulatory changes could significantly impact our business and financial performance. for additional information about our consolidated tax provision, see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements, and for additional information about global trade and tariffs, please see "other matters" in the management's discussion and analysis section of this annual report on form 10-k. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 45 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk we have in place an enterprise risk management process that involves systematic risk identification and mitigation covering the categories of enterprise, strategic, financial, operational and compliance and reporting risks. the enterprise risk management process receives board of directors and management oversight, drives risk mitigation decision-making and is fully integrated into our internal audit planning and execution cycle. we are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, domestic and foreign interest rates, and commodity prices, which can affect our operating results and overall financial condition. we manage exposure to these risks through our operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivatives. derivatives are viewed as risk management tools and are not used for speculation or for trading purposes. derivatives are generally contracted with a diversified group of investment grade counterparties to reduce exposure to nonperformance on such instruments. we use foreign currency forward contracts, currency options, currency swaps and cross-currency swaps to hedge the price risk associated with firmly committed and forecasted cross-border payments and receipts related to ongoing business and operational financing activities. we also use forward or option contracts to hedge our investment in the net assets of certain international subsidiaries to offset foreign currency translation adjustments related to our net investment in those subsidiaries. these foreign currency contracts are sensitive to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. at december 31, 2019 , a 10% favorable or unfavorable exchange rate movement in each currency in our portfolio of foreign currency contracts would have resulted in an incremental unrealized gain of approximately $436 million or loss of approximately $449 million, respectively. consistent with the use of these contracts to mitigate the effect of exchange rate fluctuations, such unrealized losses or gains would be offset by corresponding gains or losses, respectively, in the re-measurement of the underlying exposures. we enter into interest rate swap and cross-currency swap agreements to manage our exposure to interest rate risk from probable long-term debt issuances or cross-currency debt. at december 31, 2019 , a 100 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would have resulted in an incremental unrealized gain of approximately $47 million or unrealized loss of approximately $64 million, respectively, related to these contracts. we enter into commodity swap contracts to hedge the price risk associated with firmly committed and forecasted commodities purchases, the prices of which are not fixed directly through supply contracts. at december 31, 2019 , a 10% favorable or unfavorable shift in commodity prices would have resulted in an incremental gain or loss of approximately $17 million, respectively, related to these contracts. 45quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk . information with respect to market risk can be found under the caption market risk in the management discussion and analysis section of the annual report which is incorporated herein by reference.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk . information with respect to market risk can be found under the caption market risk in management discussion and analysis contained in the financial supplement to this report.risk factors 7 risk factors . this report contains statements referring to whirlpool that are not historical facts and are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. these statements, which are intended to take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995, are based on current projections about operations, industry conditions, financial condition and liquidity. words that identify forward-looking statements include words such as may, could, will, should, possible, plan, predict, forecast, potential, anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, believe, may impact, on track, and words and terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance, a merger, or our businesses. in addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections, or other characterizations of future events or circumstances, including any underlying assumptions, are forward-looking statements. those statements are not guarantees and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict. therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from these forward-looking statements. these risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following: risks relating to our business we face intense competition in the home appliance industry and failure to successfully compete may negatively affect our business and financial performance. each of our operating segments operates in a highly competitive business environment and faces intense competition from a growing number of competitors, many of which have strong consumer brand equity. several of these competitors, such as electrolux, lg, samsung, bosch siemens and general electric are large, well-established companies that rank among the global fortune 150 and have demonstrated a commitment to success in the global market. moreover, the united states customer base is characterized by large, sophisticated trade customers who have many choices and demand competitive prices, products and services. competition in the global appliance market is based on a number of factors including selling price, product features and design, performance, innovation, energy efficiency, quality, cost, distribution, and financial incentives, such as cooperative advertising, co-marketing funds, sales person incentives, volume rebates and terms. in the past, our competitors, especially global competitors with low-cost sources of supply and/or highly protected home markets outside the united states, have aggressively priced their products and/or introduced new products to increase market share. if we are unable to successfully compete in this highly competitive environment, our business and financial performance could be negatively affected. the loss of or substantial decline in sales to any of our key trade customers, which include lowe s, sears, home depot, casas bahia, ikea, major buying groups, and builders, could adversely affect our financial performance. we sell to a sophisticated customer base of large trade customers that have significant leverage as buyers over their suppliers. most of our products are not sold through long-term contracts, which facilitates the trade customers ability to change volume among suppliers. as the trade customers continue to become larger, they may seek to use their position to improve their profitability by various means, including improved efficiency, lower pricing, and increased promotional programs. if we are unable to meet their requirements, our volume growth and financial results could be negatively affected. the loss of, or substantial decline in volume of, sales to lowe s, sears, home depot, casas bahia, ikea, major buying groups or builders, or any other trade customers to which we sell a significant amount of products, could adversely affect our financial performance. additionally, the loss of market share or financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, by these trade customers could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. changes in economic conditions could adversely affect demand for our products. a number of economic factors, including, but not limited to, gross domestic product, availability of consumer credit, interest rates, consumer confidence and debt levels, retail trends, housing starts, sales of existing homes, the level of mortgage refinancing and defaults, and foreign currency exchange rates, generally affect demand for our products. higher unemployment rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, and higher tax rates adversely affect demand. a decline in economic activity and conditions in the united states, brazil and the other markets in which we operate could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 7 table of contents product liability or product recall costs could adversely affect our business and financial performance. we are subject to the risk of exposure to product liability and product recall claims if any of our products are alleged to have resulted in injury to persons or damage to property. in the event that any of our products prove to be defective, we may need to recall and/or redesign such products. in addition, any claim or product recall that results in significant adverse publicity, particularly if those claims or recalls cause customers to question the safety or reliability of our products, may negatively affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. we do maintain product liability insurance, but this insurance may not be adequate to cover losses related to product liability claims brought against us. we may also be involved in certain class action and other litigation, for which no insurance is available. product liability insurance could become more expensive and difficult to maintain and may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. in addition, we do not maintain any product recall insurance, so any product recall we are required to initiate could have a significant impact on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. we regularly engage in investigations of potential quality and safety issues as part of our ongoing effort to deliver quality products to our customers. we are currently investigating a limited number of potential quality and safety issues, and as necessary, we undertake to effect repair or replacement of appliances. actual costs of these issues and any future issues depend upon several factors, including the number of consumers who respond to a particular recall, repair and administrative costs, whether the cost of any corrective action is borne initially by whirlpool or the supplier, and, if initially borne by whirlpool, whether we will be successful in recovering our costs from the supplier. the actual costs incurred as a result of these issues and any future issues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. unfavorable results of legal proceedings could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition and performance. we are subject to a variety of litigation and legal compliance risks, including litigation concerning product defects, intellectual property rights, taxes, environmental matters, commercial matters and compliance with competition laws and sales and trading practices. results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. regardless of merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. we estimate loss contingencies and establish reserves as required by generally accepted accounting principles based on our assessment of contingencies where liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable in light of the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time. subsequent developments in legal proceedings, volatility in foreign currency exchange rates and other factors may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded and could result in an adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which a liability would be recognized or cash flows for the period in which amounts would be paid. actual results may significantly vary from our reserves. we are subject to, and could be further subject to, governmental investigations or actions by other third parties. we are subject to various federal, foreign and state laws, including antitrust laws, violations of which can involve civil or criminal sanctions. government regulators in various jurisdictions are currently investigating alleged pricing practices in the global compressor industry, including our embraco compressor business headquartered in brazil. in addition, we have been named as a defendant in numerous related class action lawsuits in various jurisdictions, which seek damages in connection with the pricing of compressors, and additional lawsuits may be filed. the impact of these and other investigations and lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. foreign currency fluctuations may affect our financial performance. we generate a significant portion of our revenue and incur a significant portion of our expenses in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. changes in the exchange rates of functional currencies of those operations affect the u.s. dollar value of our revenue and earnings from our foreign operations. we use currency forwards and options to manage our foreign currency transaction exposures. we cannot completely eliminate our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations, which may adversely affect our financial performance. in addition, because our consolidated financial results are reported in dollars, if we generate sales or earnings in other currencies, the translation of those results into dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those sales or earnings. finally, the amount of legal 8 table of contents contingencies related to foreign operations may fluctuate significantly based upon changes in the exchange rates and usually cannot be managed with currency forwards, options or other arrangements. such fluctuations in exchange rates can significantly increase or decrease the amount of any legal contingency related to our foreign operations and make it difficult to assess and manage the potential exposure. risks associated with our international operations may decrease our revenues and increase our costs. for the year ended december 31, 2010, we derived approximately 47% of our net sales from outside of north america (which includes canada and mexico), including 25% in latin america, 17% in europe and 5% in asia. we expect that international sales will continue to account for a significant percentage of our net sales in the foreseeable future. accordingly, we face numerous risks associated with conducting international operations, any of which could negatively affect our financial performance. these risks include the following: changes in foreign country regulatory requirements; various import/export restrictions and the availability of required import/export licenses; imposition of foreign tariffs and other trade barriers; political, legal, and economic instability and uncertainty; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; changes in foreign country tax rules, regulations and other requirements, such as changes in tax rates and statutory and judicial interpretations of tax laws; inflation; work stoppages and disruptions in the shipping of imported and exported products; government price controls; extended payment terms and the inability to collect accounts receivable; and the inability to repatriate cash. additionally, as a u.s. corporation, we are subject to the foreign corrupt practices act, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage to foreign companies that are not subject to similar regulations. additionally, any determination that we have violated the foreign corrupt practices act could have a material adverse effect on us. terrorist attacks, armed conflicts, natural disasters, and epidemics could affect our domestic and international sales, disrupt our supply chain, and impair our ability to produce and deliver our products. such events could directly impact our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers, both in the united states and elsewhere. an inability to effectively execute and manage our business objectives could adversely affect our financial performance. the highly competitive nature of our industry requires that we effectively execute and manage our business including our global operating platform initiative. our global operating platform initiative aims to reduce costs, drive productivity and quality improvements, and accelerate our rate of innovation. our inability to effectively control costs and drive productivity improvements could affect our profits. in addition, our failure to provide high-quality, innovative products could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our sales. if we failed in this way, it could negatively affect our revenues and overall financial performance. additionally, our success is dependent on anticipating changes in customer preferences and on successful new product and process development and product relaunches in response to such changes. our future results and our ability to maintain or improve our competitive position will depend on our capacity to gauge the direction of our key markets and upon our ability to successfully and timely identify, develop, manufacture, market, and sell new or improved products in these changing markets. we face inventory and other asset risk. we record a write-down for product and component inventories that have become obsolete or exceed anticipated demand or net realizable value. we also review our long-lived and intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changed circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. if we determine that impairment has occurred, we record a write-down equal to the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair market value. although we believe our 9 table of contents inventory and other asset related provisions are currently adequate, no assurance can be given that, given the unpredictable pace of product obsolescence and business conditions, we will not incur additional inventory or asset related charges. such charges could materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. fluctuations and volatility in the cost of raw materials and purchased components could adversely affect our profits. the primary materials used to produce and manufacture our products are steel, oil, plastic resins, and base metals, such as aluminum, copper, zinc, and nickel. on a global and regional basis, the sources and prices of those materials and components are susceptible to significant price fluctuations due to supply/demand trends, transportation costs, government regulations and tariffs, changes in currency exchange rates, price controls, the economic climate, and other unforeseen circumstances. material cost inflation is expected to be approximately $250 million to $300 million in 2011, largely driven by increases in base metals, such as copper, aluminum, zinc and nickel, as well as component parts and steel. continued significant increases in these and other costs in the future could materially affect our profits. the ability of suppliers to deliver parts, components and manufacturing equipment to our manufacturing facilities, including our ability to manufacture without disruption, could affect our global business performance. we use a wide range of materials and components in the global production of our products and use numerous suppliers to provide materials and components. because we generally do not have guaranteed supply arrangements with our suppliers and some key parts may be available only from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers, we are subject to supply and pricing risks. in addition, certain proprietary component parts used in some of our products are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. we would be unable to obtain these proprietary component parts for an indeterminate period of time if these single-source suppliers were to cease or interrupt production or otherwise fail to supply these components to us, which could adversely affect our product sales and operating results. our operations and operations at suppliers facilities are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, work stoppages, fire, earthquake, flooding, or other natural disasters. such disruption could interrupt our ability to manufacture certain products. any significant disruption could negatively impact our revenue and earnings performance. significant differences between actual results and estimates of the amount of future funding for our pension plans and postretirement health care benefit programs, and significant changes in funding assumptions or significant increases in funding obligations due to regulatory changes, could adversely affect our financial results. we have both funded and unfunded noncontributory defined benefit pension plans that cover most of our north american employees and certain foreign employees. we also have unfunded postretirement health care benefit plans for eligible retired employees. the employee retirement income security act of 1974 (erisa), the pension protection act and the internal revenue code govern the funding obligations for our u.s. pension plans, which are our principal pension plans. our u.s. defined benefit plans were frozen as of december 31, 2006 for substantially all participants. for 2007 and beyond, whirlpool employees may participate in an enhanced defined contribution plan. as of december 31, 2010, our projected benefit obligations under our pension plans and postretirement health care benefit programs exceeded the fair value of plan assets by an aggregate of approximately $2,205 million ($1,534 million of which was attributable to pension plans and $671 million of which was attributable to postretirement health care benefits). estimates for the amount and timing of the future funding obligations of these pension plans and postretirement health care benefit plans are based on various assumptions. these assumptions include discount rates, expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, and health care cost trend rates. these assumptions are subject to change based on changes in interest rates on high quality bonds, stock and bond market returns, and health care cost trend rates. significant differences in results or significant changes in assumptions may materially affect our postretirement obligations and related future contributions and expenses. our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, services, and brands. we consider our intellectual property rights, including patents, trademarks, trade secrets, and licensing agreements, to be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. we 10 table of contents attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and third party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. our failure to obtain or adequately protect our trademarks, products, new features of our products, or our processes may diminish our competitiveness. we have applied for patent protection in the united states and other jurisdictions with respect to certain innovations and new products, product features, and processes. we cannot be assured that the u.s. patent and trademark office or any other jurisdiction will approve any of our patent applications. additionally, the patents we own could be challenged, invalidated, or others could design around our patents and the patents may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage. further, the laws of certain foreign countries in which we do business or contemplate doing business in the future do not recognize intellectual property rights or protect them to the same extent as united states law. as a result, these factors could weaken our competitive advantage with respect to our products, services, and brands in foreign jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our financial performance. moreover, while we do not believe that any of our products infringe on the valid intellectual property rights of third parties, others may assert intellectual property rights that cover some of our technology, brands, products, or services. any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly license agreements. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain products. we may be subject to information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches in data security, which may materially adversely affect our operations, financial condition and operating results. we depend on information technology as an enabler to improve the effectiveness of our operations and to interface with our customers, as well as to maintain financial accuracy and efficiency. information technology system failures could disrupt our operations by causing transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, delays or cancellation of customer orders, the loss of customers, impediments to the manufacture or shipment of products, other business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach. in addition, we have outsourced certain information technology support services and administrative functions, such as payroll processing and benefit plan administration, to third-party service providers and may outsource other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. if the service providers to which we outsource these functions do not perform effectively, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings and may have to incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers. depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach, or harm employee morale. our information systems could also be penetrated by outside parties intent on extracting information, corrupting information or disrupting business processes. such unauthorized access could disrupt our business and could result in the loss of assets. a deterioration in labor relations could adversely impact our global business. as of december 31, 2010, we had approximately 71,000 employees. of those employees, various labor unions with separate collective bargaining agreements represent approximately 60%. our current collective bargaining agreements generally have three year terms. due to the large number of collective bargaining agreements, we are periodically in negotiations with certain of the unions representing our employees. we may be subject to employee work stoppages that, if such events were to occur, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. further, we cannot be assured that we will be able to renew collective bargaining agreements on the same or similar terms, or at all, which may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. 11 table of contents our ability to attract, develop and retain executives and other qualified employees is crucial to our results of operations and future growth. we depend upon the continued services and performance of our key executives, senior management and skilled personnel, particularly our professionals with experience in our business and operations and the home appliance industry. we cannot be sure that any of these individuals will continue to be employed by us. a lengthy period of time is required to hire and develop replacement personnel when skilled personnel depart whirlpool. an inability to hire, develop and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees could materially hinder our business by, for example, delaying our ability to bring new products to market or impairing the success of our operations. changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. the conduct of our businesses, and the production, distribution, sale, advertising, safety, transportation and use of many of our products, are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the united states, as well as to foreign laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies in markets in which we operate. these laws and regulations may change, sometimes dramatically, as a result of political, economic or social events. changes in laws, regulations or governmental policy and the related interpretations may alter the environment in which we do business and, therefore, may impact our results or increase our costs or liabilities. in addition, we incur and will continue to incur capital and other expenditures to comply with various laws and regulations, especially relating to the protection of the environment and human health and safety. these types of costs could adversely affect our financial performance. additionally, we could be subjected to future liabilities, fines or penalties or the suspension of product production for failing to comply with various laws and regulations, including environmental regulations. cleanup obligations that might arise at any of our manufacturing sites or the imposition of more stringent environmental laws in the future could adversely affect us. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 14 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. see market risk in management discussion and analysis in the financial supplement to this report.